03.28.2019	Washington, D.C – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik has reintroduced the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act along with Congressman Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ). This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Community Health Centers Fund and provides additional funding increases for community health care. “Community health centers serve over 95,000 patients in my district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We know firsthand that strong and affordable health care in rural communities is critical, and I’m proud to advocate on behalf of our region. This common-sense, bipartisan legislation will ensure that North Country patients have access to quality health care in their communities for years to come.” “Community Health Centers in New York State serve 2.3 million patients each year - that’s one in every nine New Yorkers,” said Rose Duhan, CHCANYS President and CEO. “Guaranteeing continued federal funding for FQHCs ensures high quality health care for all, even those who don’t have insurance or can’t afford to pay. Congresswoman Stefanik is one of our strongest champions in Washington, and we thank her for standing with us again.” Congresswoman Stefanik is receiving a 2019 Distinguished Community Health Champion Award from the National Association of Community Health Centers tonight, March 28, for her unequivocal support and advocacy.
03.28.2019	Washington, D.C – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik is a co-lead on the Younger Onset Alzheimer’s Act, which was introduced yesterday. This bipartisan legislation updates the Older Americans Act to provide protections for those under age 60 who are diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease. “The Younger Onset Alzheimer’s Act is an important piece of legislation that amends the Older Americans Act to include services for a fast growing population – younger individuals diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer’s,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This heartbreaking disease that touches so many families deserves equal recognition and protection under the law, and I’m proud to be a co-lead of this long-overdue, bipartisan bill and to stand up for the Alzheimer’s community.” ###
03.27.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik introduced the WAGE Equity Act, which closes the wage gap between women and men while prioritizing employees and businesses over trial lawyers. The 48 cosponsors represent geographic and ideologically diverse parts of the GOP Conference. The WAGE Equity Act is modeled after bipartisan legislation that Republican governors have signed into law that focus on closing the wage gap. “Of the 2.8 million jobs created in the past year, 58% have gone to women,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Increasingly, women are their family’s primary breadwinners, and we simply cannot ignore the fact that women are traditionally paid less than men. The WAGE Equity Act is a prime example of Republicans leading on women’s empowerment, and is a stark contrast to the Democrat’s legislation which prioritizes trial lawyers over employees and businesses. I urge my Democrat colleagues to consider this legislation as a practical alternative that strengthens equal pay for equal work without the unnecessary frivolous lawsuits and burdens on businesses.” The WAGE Equity Act does the following: Empowers employees to utilize flexible work arrangements, which are increasingly necessary in the 21st century. Creates a “Self-Audit” system that would incentivize businesses to rectify pay disparity proactively. Protects an individual’s ability to negotiate employment based upon merit while also offering the flexibility to voluntarily disclose prior salary history. Protects employers’ ability to ensure negotiations in good faith by explicitly protecting the employer’s ability to have a salary expectation conversation and allowing the employer to act on salary history if it is voluntarily offered during interview process. Protects employee ability to discuss compensation with their colleagues while giving employers the right to set reasonable limitations on the time, location, and manner of this activity. Authorizes a grant program for targeted negotiation education for women in college and career/tech programs. Instructs GAO to conduct a study on the causes and impacts of the “manager’s gap” which is the time when many women leave the workforce for parental reasons and has been shown to be a significant cause of pay inequity. Is reflective of the modern workforce and supports the empowerment of women in today’s economy. In Contrast, the Democrat proposal misses the mark with the following provisions: Requires the EEOC, for the first time, to collect compensation data from employers disaggregated by the sex, race, and national origin of employees, including hiring, termination, and promotion data. This would be action that could impose compliance costs of $700 million annually. Expands class action lawsuits by deeming all potential class members to be plaintiffs, requiring those who may not wish to pursue a claim to affirmatively opt-out. Opens claims to unlimited compensatory or punitive damages, even if there is no finding of intentional discrimination. Establishes a higher burden on employers to prove that “a factor other than sex” is a “bona fide factor other than sex” which would only apply if the employer can show a “business necessity” for the disparity. Watch Congresswoman Stefanik speak on the House Floor in support of the WAGE Equity Act today here and below. ###
03.26.2019	Washington, D.C. – In light of the news that ISIS no longer controls any physical territory, Congresswoman Stefanik released the below statement. As Chairwoman and now Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Congresswoman Stefanik has played a key role in establishing policies, executing oversight, and supporting the troops critical to the success of the counter-ISIS mission. “The liberation of ISIS-controlled territory marks the end of an era filled with remarkable human suffering,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We must celebrate and recognize President Trump and our military leaders for making it a priority to reengage and defeat ISIS after years of gains. Although ISIS no longer controls physical territory, the fight is not yet over. The United States must remain engaged and committed to finishing the job by completely defeating the terrorist group and the faulty ideology that comes with it. Continuing our collaboration with our allies and remaining vigilant is just as important now as it was before.” ###
03.24.2019	Washington, D.C. – Following the release of Attorney General Barr’s conclusions on the Mueller report, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the below statement: “I have consistently supported the Mueller investigation from the beginning,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Policymakers on both sides of the aisle should respect the findings of this investigation: there was no collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Importantly, the Mueller investigation did find that there were Russian efforts to undermine and influence the 2016 US election. I will continue to work to counter Russia’s disinformation efforts and cyber threats on the House Armed Services Committee.” ###
03.22.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the following statement in response to the conclusion of the Special Counsel’s report: “I have consistently supported the Mueller investigation and I urge Attorney General Barr to brief Congress on the Special Counsel’s findings as soon as possible,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We must ensure 100% transparency by releasing the Mueller Report to the American people.” ###
03.22.2019	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik participated in a tour of ACCO USA and held a manufacturing roundtable with local elected officials and business leaders in Ogdensburg. ACCO USA distributes their products throughout America, as well as the entirety of Canada. “I enjoyed speaking with and hearing from local business leaders and elected officials about the importance of manufacturing local products to distribute throughout our country and Canada, our greatest economic partner,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We had a productive discussion about U.S. – Canadian trade and border issues, workforce development, and the need for greater infrastructure in the North Country. I also had the opportunity to tour ACCO USA and got an inside look into their manufacturing process. Thank you to all who attended for your continued support and advocacy for local manufacturing and business. It is a privilege to partner with you on working to create economic opportunity in our region.” You can find video of Congresswoman Stefanik speaking during the roundtable here, and pictures for your use below.
03.21.2019	Washington, D.C. – Following the announcement of a renewed 7-year partnership agreement between Alcoa and the New York Power Authority, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the below statement: “The Alcoa aluminum smelting facility in Massena provides hundreds of good-paying jobs to workers in the North Country, and eliminating their partnership with the New York Power Authority would have been disastrous for both our region’s energy industry and hardworking families,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I applaud Alcoa and NYPA for their commitment to North Country workers and am thrilled that they have reached an agreement to continue their productive partnership. I will continue to work with Alcoa to ensure they remain a strong economic driver in my district.” Alcoa and NYPA first reached a deal in 2015 which included $30 million in low-cost electricity from NYPA, and a commitment from Alcoa to keep hundreds of full-time employees on the payroll at their smelting facility in Massena. The agreement was set to expire on March 31 of this year. ###
03.21.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Army announced that Major General Brian J. Mennes will be the next Senior Commander of Fort Drum and the 10th Mountain Division. MG Mennes is currently the Director, Force Management, in the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans & Training, stationed at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. He will take command of Fort Drum and the 10th Mountain Division this spring, although no date has been set. "Congratulations to Major General Brian Mennes on being named the next Senior Commander of Fort Drum and the 10th Mountain Division,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. I'm excited to hear that MG Mennes is a New York native and look forward to working with him to serve North Country soldiers and their families. Climb to Glory! I would also like to thank MG Piatt for his tremendous service and leadership at Fort Drum over the last two years, and wish him and his family well in his next assignment."
03.18.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik will co-chair the Northern Border Caucus for the 116th Congress along with Congressman Brian Higgins (NY-26.) The Caucus includes a bipartisan group of House Members who will spearhead the effort to address policies central to the United States-Canada partnership. “Canada continues to be our strongest economic ally, and we must actively work to maintain our partnership with them so that it is productive and beneficial for both countries,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “My district borders Canada, and I’m excited to take on the responsibility of co-chairing this important Caucus, which is a hallmark of the institution of the House of Representatives. "The Northern Border Caucus was formed in 1994 at the request of the Canadian/American Border Trade Alliance by Congressman John LaFalce,” said Jim Phillips, President of the Canadian/American Border Trade Alliance. “It is led by a Republican and Democrat Co-chair. We are very excited that Congresswoman Elise Stefanik is the new Republican Co-chair. She is a visionary, energetic leader who is extremely knowledgeable about the U.S./Canada Border and represents our border related interests extremely well." "The Northern Border Caucus is the key alliance within Congress for our shared border with Canada, and representatives from the North Country have long been leaders including John McHugh and Bill Owens," said Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "Congresswoman Stefanik has quickly become an active and trusted champion for our northern border and for our immensely important economic partnership with Canada. Being selected as Co-Chair recognizes her commitment and knowledge, and once again places this region in a top position in all matters related to the U.S.-Canada relationship. This will bring valuable leadership to the big picture across the continent but also to our North Country priorities from border infrastructure and staffing to cross border commerce and investment. We congratulate her on this recognition and we thank her for taking on the leadership responsibilities. Onward and upward!" The Northern Border Caucus will deal with issues and policies relating to trade, energy, transportation, immigration, the environment, and homeland security. ###
03.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik has cosponsored the Dairy Pride Act, which was reintroduced today. This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to prohibit the sale of any food that uses the market name of a dairy product but does not come from an animal, and does not contain milk as a primary ingredient. “Dairy is one of the most significant economic drivers in the North Country, and the success of dairy producers translates to the success of our Upstate economy overall,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “North Country dairy producers are negatively affected by the producers of non-dairy beverages, such as almond and soy products, unfairly benefitting from the ability to label their products as milk. I’m cosponsoring this legislation to ensure that dairy producers in my district have a chance, and to keep the dairy industry strong and prosperous.” ###
03.13.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik and her Republican colleagues Rep. Will Hurd (TX-23), Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13), and Rep. Steve Stivers (OH-15) reintroduced a clean, one-year extension of the bipartisan Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), landmark legislation to protect victims of domestic abuse. The current law expired in February when Democrats refused to work with Republicans to extend VAWA in the compromise funding bill. Judiciary Committee Democrats passed a controversial reauthorization of VAWA out of the Committee today that is unlikely to pass the Senate and be signed into law. Congresswoman Elise Stefanik introduced a one-year extension in order to continue critical services to survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence while Congress works on bipartisan reauthorization of VAWA. “Since being signed into law in 1994, the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) has protected millions of women from domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Given the proven and tangible results of this legislation, it would be nonsensical to fail to pass a clean reauthorization to ensure these critical protections for women across America continue. I am proud to stand with my colleagues to protect women, and I urge Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats to set aside partisanship and bring this bill to the floor and pass it immediately.” “One of my first acts as a freshman lawmaker in 2013 was to send a letter to Republican leadership asking them to bring a bipartisan VAWA reauthorization to the floor,” said Congressman Rodney Davis. “A month later, President Obama had a bipartisan bill sent to his desk. This bill is too important to be brought down by partisan politics. I urge Speaker Pelosi to follow the bipartisan history VAWA has had and bring this bill to the floor to extend these critical programs immediately.” “The safety of our communities and of our constituents is not a Republican or Democrat issue,” said Congressman Stivers. “This is a proven program that protects women from heinous crimes, and the fact that it has lapsed is unacceptable. We need to put partisanship aside and pass a clean reauthorization of VAWA as soon as possible.” According to the Centers for Disease Control, about 1 in 3 women experience some sort of sexual violence in their lifetime in America. Programs authorized and funded under VAWA work to protect girls and women from these crimes. The programs provide funding to ensure safety and support for survivors, increase prevention efforts, expand educational awareness surrounding domestic violence and sexual assault, implement training for health professionals and law enforcement, and to coordinate responses across agencies. ###
03.12.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik and Congresswoman Val Deming’s bipartisan Vladimir Putin Transparency Act passed the House. This legislation instructs U.S. intelligence to collect and submit a report to Congress on Putin and his allies’ financial assets and secretive networks. This bill has been vetted by bipartisan national security experts. “Vladimir Putin and his corrupt allies seek to weaken democracies globally by consolidating political control through unethical means, and they must be brought to account for their actions,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. I’m thrilled that this important, bipartisan legislation was swiftly brought to the floor and passed, and I thank my colleagues for supporting my efforts. This legislation is an important step to ensuring the security of our elections and upholding democracy around the world.” Watch Congresswoman Stefanik speak on the House Floor in support of the Vladimir Putin Transparency Act here and below. ###
03.12.2019	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik, Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Intelligence, Emerging Threats and Capabilities, addressed the inaugural session of the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence, a federally appointed Commission tasked with advising the government on artificial intelligence. The Commission, which was established with the passage of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of 2019, was introduced by Congresswoman Stefanik. Congresswoman Stefanik has been an advocate for increased investment, stronger oversight, and greater public-private partnership in field of artificial intelligence. “In March of last year, I introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to establish a national commission to review the advances in AI, the competitiveness of our efforts, and the implications to our national security,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Yesterday, less than a year later, we were surrounded by some of the leading minds and visionaries in the field of AI – this is a remarkable achievement. The speed at which this Commission was able to organize is a testament to the hard work and dedication of so many in the Department of Defense, and is a reflection of how important this issue is. I want to stress how important the Commission’s findings and recommendations will be to policy makers and Congress. Their input will be critical to ensuring we balance the rapid technological advances in AI with sound, well-crafted policy that reinforces our national and economic security.” ###
03.07.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik has cosponsored the Guarding Congressional Authority Act. This legislation aims to restore congressional authority during any future national emergency declarations, end the politicization that comes with them, and reform the existing National Emergencies Act. Under the Guarding Congressional Authority Act, a national emergency declared by the executive branch expires in 60 days unless Congress acts to approve the declaration or change the timeline. “The Guarding Congressional Authority Act restores congressional authority and ends the rampant politicization of national emergency declarations,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “One of the hallmarks of our democracy is a strong system of checks and balances on the executive branch – as a constitutional conservative, I believe strongly that we must fight to ensure it stays that way.” ###
03.04.2019	Washington, D.C. – In case you missed it, the Watertown Daily Times’ Sunday editorial focused on Congresswoman Stefanik’s disapproval vote of the President’s national emergency declaration and her independent judgement, regardless of which party occupies the White House. Putting the nation first: Stefanik votes to block Trump’s national emergency declaration Watertown Daily Times March 3, 2019 “Being a loyal member of the GOP on Capitol Hill doesn’t mean you always have to agree with the president. “U.S. Rep. Elise M. Stefanik, R-Schuylerville, demonstrated that Tuesday by officially disapproving of a recently enacted national emergency. She joined 244 of her colleagues in voting for a resolution to block President Donald Trump’s decision to bypass Congress in constructing a wall on our border with Mexico. “‘While I continue to be a strong supporter of securing our border, I believe the president declaring a national emergency that will take funding from our country’s military construction projects is the wrong decision,” Ms. Stefanik said in a statement. “For this reason, I voted in support of today’s resolution disapproving of the national emergency with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. As a constitutional conservative, I consistently criticized President Obama’s executive overreach. No matter what party is represented in the White House, I will stand up against executive action that circumvents Congress. I will continue to negotiate in good faith to fully fund securing the border, and I urge my Democrat colleagues to commit to doing the same.’” … “Ms. Stefanik distinguished herself by being the only Republican from New York to support Tuesday’s resolution. This shows her independent judgment and consistency in upholding the principle of limited government. “There are better ways to secure our border, and Ms. Stefanik has discussed these options. She has shown the value of her leadership in Congress by acting in the nation’s best interest rather than merely toeing a party line.” Read the full editorial here. ###
02.28.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik introduced the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Harassment Act along with Rep. Cheri Bustos, Rep. Pramila Jayapal, and Rep. Morgan Griffith. This legislation would void forced arbitration agreements that prevent survivors of sexual harassment from receiving the justice they deserve. It will allow victims to discuss their cases publicly and will eliminate institutional protection for harassers. "Sexual harassment in the workplace is an epidemic, and I'm proud to stand with the brave men and women who come forward and share their stories,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Too often, victims are pushed aside while their harassers are protected, leaving many to wonder why they decided to come forward in the first place. This is both backwards and unacceptable. I am hopeful that this bipartisan legislation will allow all victims of sexual harassment to come forward without fear of retribution and dismissal, and will work with my colleagues to pass this important bill in the House." ###
02.28.2019	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Elise Stefanik has cosponsored the VA Hiring Enhancement Act. This legislation will help reduce VA physician vacancies by leveling the playing field for the VA hiring process and making hiring guidelines more consistent with already established requirements. It will make the Veterans Health Administration a more attractive employer and increase competition. "I have a long record of standing up for veterans and the military in Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our veterans sacrifice so much for our safety and freedom - the least we can do is ensure they receive quality health care in a timely manner. Unfortunately, one of the reasons wait times at the VA tend to be longer than civilian health care facilities is due to the amount of physician vacancies. This bipartisan legislation will address that lack in the system and give our veterans the care they so deserve. I'm proud to cosponsor this bill and look forward to its passage." ###
02.27.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the following statement on H.R. 8 and Governor Cuomo’s gun legislation that he signed earlier this week: “I am proud of my record as a strong supporter of the 2nd Amendment and of working across the aisle to enact common-sense reforms that protect our children, our schools and our families from senseless gun violence,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The legislation brought to the Floor today infringes on the constitutional right of law-abiding citizens to keep and bear arms, with little to no effect on deterring criminals. I also stand with our law enforcement community in opposing the firearm legislation signed by Governor Cuomo and championed by Speaker Pelosi earlier this week, which effectively boxes out law enforcement and hands their authority directly over to the courts. This misguided legislation infringes on the rights of responsible gun owners across the North Country and is yet another example of Governor Cuomo’s failed leadership in our state.” ###
02.27.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elise Stefanik and Rep. Val Demings (D-FL) introduced the Vladimir Putin Transparency Act. This bipartisan legislation instructs U.S. intelligence to collect and submit a report to Congress on Putin and his allies’ financial assets and secretive networks. “Putin and his political allies seek to weaken democracies worldwide by consolidating their political control through unethical means,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am proud to cosponsor this bill which aims to identify Putin and his allies for who they are: nefarious political actors undermining democracies.” Rep. Stefanik and Rep. Demings also introduced the bipartisan Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act last Congress, which strengthens America’s response to Russian interference in our elections. ###
02.26.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik voted to pass the Natural Resources Management Act. This strong, bipartisan legislation permanently authorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which Congresswoman Stefanik has been a consistent advocate for since her first term in Congress. “The permanent authorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund is a critical win for my district, and one that I've been working toward since my first term,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The management, protection, and continued funding of our public lands and water are important not only for the safekeeping of our region’s landmarks and natural resources, but also for our tourism industry which directly affects our economy. This bipartisan legislation will positively and significantly impact my district for many years to come, and I’m proud to have played a role in its passage.” The Land and Water Conservation Fund has been used for decades throughout New York’s 21st Congressional District, most recently in Sackett’s Harbor and Fort Ann. Additionally, this legislation authorizes and allocates dozens of land exchanges to state and local governments to further economic development, and allows for greater local control over water management that will help to save water, protect public safety, and enhance fish protections and wildlife habitats. ###
02.26.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik voted in support of the disapproval of the national emergency declaration and released the following statement: “While I continue to be a strong supporter of securing our border, I believe the President declaring a national emergency that will take funding from our country’s military construction projects is the wrong decision,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “For this reason, I voted in support of today’s resolution disapproving of the national emergency with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. As a Constitutional conservative, I consistently criticized President Obama's executive overreach. No matter what Party is represented in the White House, I will stand up against executive action that circumvents Congress. I will continue to negotiate in good faith to fully fund securing the border, and I urge my Democrat colleagues to commit to doing the same.” ###
02.22.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Stefanik announced Lake Champlain Basin Program grants awarded to projects in our region to ensure the future of the Lake Champlain watershed remains intact. Congresswoman Stefanik was the lead Republican who worked to secure support for this funding in the House Appropriations process. She was able to nearly double the amount secured. The organizations and communities in New York that received funding are as follows: Lake George Association - $86,227 for I-87 Asphalt Swale Replacement & Ditch Improvements Lake George Association - $18,446 for Installation of Precast Pervious Concrete in the Village of Lake George Ausable River Association - $12,285 for Developing a Riparian Restoration Protocol for the Ausable Watershed Town of Keene - $7,316 for Road Salt Reduction Program Warren County Soil and Water Conservation District - $19,995 for Quaker Road MS4 Stormwater and Habitat Improvement Project “Congratulations to each of the New York communities that received grant money from the Lake Champlain Basin Program,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This funding gives communities the ability to research, protect, and maintain the Lake Champlain watershed, and is vital to its future. I was one of the two leading voices in Congress to ensure support for this critical funding, and I’m proud to advocate for the environmental interests of the North Country at every opportunity I can.” This grant money is supported with funds provided by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Great Lakes Fishery Commission, and National Park Service. To read more about the Lake Champlain Basin Program, click here. ###
02.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the following statement regarding today’s forthcoming appropriations bill: “As I have said from my first campaign for Congress, I oppose government shutdowns,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “After reviewing the details of the bipartisan compromise appropriations bill, I will vote in support of today’s package that includes border security and will avoid another shutdown. I urge President Trump to sign this important legislation so we can work to fund the government and secure the border.” ###
02.13.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Humana Military reached an agreement with Samaritan Medical Practice on a one-year contract that will allow 22 specialists to continue to treat Fort Drum soldiers and their families. Throughout the past month, Congresswoman Stefanik’s office has worked with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, held conference calls with Samaritan Medical, and participated in meetings with Humana Military to discuss the unique relationship Fort Drum has with the surrounding health care community. “Over the past month, I have worked diligently to help facilitate an agreement between Humana Military and Samaritan Medical,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Fort Drum soldiers and their families have unique needs, and without a hospital on post, it is all the more important that their health care processes run smoothly. I am thankful that Humana and Samaritan have reached an agreement today, and I’m proud that I played a role in this critical effort to ensure Fort Drum soldiers and their families are taken care of and do not experience any lapse in health care coverage or services.” ###
02.11.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, President Trump will sign an executive order to launch the 'American Artificial Intelligence Initiative.' This initiative will aim to ensure that AI is developed for the benefit of the American people by prioritizing more engagement between the AI industry and the federal government. Last year, Congress established the National Security Commission on AI to enhance relationships between government and industry to make the United States the leader in developing artificial intelligence technology. “It is critical to our future that the United States be a global leader in the development of artificial intelligence,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Last Congress, I introduced legislation that created an AI Commission to identify our country’s AI priorities and make actionable recommendations of what direction we need to take in order to fulfill these priorities. I am looking forward to working with the White House to ensure their efforts align with the AI Commission’s efforts and forthcoming recommendations.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s legislation to create an AI Commission passed last Congress and was created by John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. That legislation can be found here. ###
02.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States Department of Transportation announced it has selected SkyWest Airlines to provide Essential Air Service (EAS) to Massena and Ogdensburg, New York. SkyWest will use a 50-passenger Canadair Regional Jet to provide twelve round trips per community each week to Chicago O’Hare International Airport and Washington Dulles International Airport. This two-year contract will enable North Country residents to reach two of the country’s major transportation hubs. Sky West Airlines will receive a total annual subsidy of $5,997,626. “The U.S. Department of Transportation’s decision to award SkyWest Airlines EAS funds is a huge win for the North Country,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Not only will the communities of Massena and Ogdensburg have more travel options, but these added flights will attract more tourists to our region, which will in turn bolster economic development in the region. My office diligently advocated for this award, and I’m thrilled to see it has come to fruition.” Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik sent a letter of support for this order to DOT. That letter can be viewed below. ###
02.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik co-led Antonio Delgado’s amendment to H.R. 840 – the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act. This amendment allows for child care to be provided by the VA for veterans in need of emergency mental health services, something that was unaccounted for in the bill. “The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act is an important first step in providing veterans with free child care during VA health care appointments,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was proud to co-lead an amendment to this bill that would allow veterans to access child care during emergency mental health services. Due to their service, many veterans experience PTSD and emotional or mental distress, and they should never have to skip an appointment due to inaccessibility to child care. This amendment is critical to ensuring our veterans are able to receive mental health care when they need it, not just when they can schedule it on a calendar.” The amendment was adopted unanimously by the House, and the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act passed 400-9. ###
02.07.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik is an original cosponsor to the Employer Participation in Repayment Act. This bipartisan bill allows employers to offer tax-free student loan assistance to their employees. These payments are tax exempted up to $5,250 a year. “The crushing level of student loan debt that our college students incur does not incentivize graduating high school seniors to further their education - in fact, it discourages them from doing so,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bill would allow employers to offer their employees tax-free benefits that would help students pay off their loans in a timely manner, so they have the opportunity to save for a home, start a family, or simply live without a looming cloud of debt hanging over their heads. Additionally, this bill is pivotal to the future of our economy, as millennials are expected to make up the vast majority of the workforce in just 6 years.” The Employer Participation in Repayment Act is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 99 Members of Congress. ###
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the following statement after the President’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Trump communicated the strong state of our economy and military in his inspirational State of the Union address,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Protecting our national security, strengthening our infrastructure, lowering the cost of healthcare, fighting against pediatric cancer, eliminating HIV/AIDS, securing our border, and fighting for the interests of hardworking American families are priorities that both sides of the aisle can and should come together to achieve. President Trump called on Congress to join together in a bipartisan fashion to work on behalf of the American public, and I am looking forward to negotiating in good faith with my colleagues to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system.”
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. – Tonight, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik will be joined by Steve Bowman, a United States Air Force Veteran and Director of the Clinton County Veterans Services Agency at the State of the Union address. Mr. Bowman retired from the Air Force in 1994 after 18 honorable years of active service. He was appointed as Director of Clinton County Veterans Service Agency in 2004, and he and his staff currently serve an average of 800 veterans a month. Mr. Bowman is a life-long member of the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American Veterans, and the North Country Veterans Association. He resides in Chazy, New York, with his wife Gail, where they own and operate a family diner in Rouses Point. “I am honored to be joined by Air Force Veteran Steve Bowman tonight at the President’s State of the Union address,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Steve has devoted his entire life to serving others, and is someone I look up to and respect deeply. He continues to serve his fellow veterans each and every day, and he personifies the word ‘service.’ I am delighted to bring Steve Bowman as my guest to this historic event.” ###
01.31.2019	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik was reappointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence for the 116th Congress by GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy. “I’m grateful to Leader McCarthy for reappointing me to the House Intelligence Committee,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “It is an honor to serve on this committee, which is devoted to protecting our country against threats to our national security and democracy. I’m looking forward to continuing my work from last Congress with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to increase our nation’s stability.” Congresswoman Stefanik also served on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in the 115th Congress. The Committee oversees components of the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Treasury and Energy, Justice, and State. To learn more about the committee, click here. ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik cosponsored a resolution to reform the process and handling of sexual assault kits. Unfortunately, due to the inefficiency of the current process, there is a significant backlog of untested sexual assault kits. These kits have proved effective in solving and preventing sexual assaults, but only when they are tested in a timely manner. “Due to the inefficiency of our system, thousands of pieces of evidence to find the perpetrators of sexual assaults are quite literally collecting dust," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "There is absolutely no excuse for evidence going untested. I’m looking forward to Congress coming together to pass this bipartisan bill.” This resolution was introduced by Congressman Dave Joyce (OH-14), Co-Chair and founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to End Sexual Violence. ###
01.29.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik is now the Ranking Member on the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee. She will serve alongside Chairman Jim Langevin (D-RI.) “I am honored and excited to be Ranking Member on the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. "I look forward to continuing my work with Chairman Langevin as we build upon our accomplishments from last Congress. The bipartisan work that this subcommittee does is pivotal to our national security and the defense of our great nation. I’m humbled to be given the opportunity to serve once again.” Last Congress on the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, Congresswoman Stefanik was proud to support and energize the Pentagon’s science and technology enterprise, strengthen cyber warfare capabilities, bolster Special Operations Forces around the world, provide resources and authorities to counter terrorism, and advance programs that counter the spread of weapons of mass destruction. She additionally introduced ground-breaking legislation on Artificial Intelligence and emerging technologies which led to the creation of the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence. To learn more about the subcommittee, click here. ###
01.28.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Michael Ostrander will serve as District Director for the 116th Congress. He officially starts work today, January 28. “I am excited to announce that Michael Ostrander will be joining my team as District Director,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Michael’s impressive career in public service makes him a strong choice to manage my office’s district operations in the 21st district. His expertise in our state, along with his unique skill-set and work ethic, will be pivotal in ensuring we set the standard for strong constituent services and district outreach. He will be an incredible asset to our team.” Michael Ostrander joins Congresswoman Stefanik’s office from the New York State Senate. Most recently, he served as Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Senate, and prior to that as the Deputy Director of Community Affairs. Before his time as a State Senate staffer, he was the Director of Government and Community Affairs for the Division of Military and Naval Affairs (DMNA). He began his career working for the Office of Governor George Pataki (R-NY). ###
01.25.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Stefanik released the following statement on President Trump re-opening the federal government: “This government shutdown was unnecessary and inexcusable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I will continue to be a strong voice – with a voting record to back it up – to fund our federal agencies. Now, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make a deal to address the need for border security. I want to thank all of the government employees who showed extraordinary professionalism and dedication during this shutdown. I know this was a significant financial hardship for thousands of families in my district.” Since her first term, Congresswoman Stefanik has been a consistent vote against shutting down the government. ###
01.24.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik has cosponsored H.R. 367 – the Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act of 2019. Currently, the United States Coast Guard is the only branch of the military that is having to go without pay during this government shutdown. Despite this, the USCG continues to provide support to law enforcement, Homeland Security, search and rescue missions, and more. This bill would ensure the USCG receives regular pay during any lapse in appropriations. “It is entirely unacceptable that any branch of our military is forced to work without pay during this unnecessary government shutdown,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The United States Coast Guard puts their lives on the line for our safety each day, and are honorably continuing to carry out their responsibilities without compensation. I am proud to be an advocate for the USCG, specifically for the active duty Coast Guard officers in my district. Congress needs to get its act together to pay our military and end this shutdown – the longest in history.” Congresswoman Stefanik has been a consistent vote to keep the government open since her first term in Congress. Yesterday, she cosponsored the Pay Our TSA Act, which would ensure our TSA screeners are also paid during any lapse in appropriations. ###
01.23.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 705 – the Pay Our TSA Screeners Act of 2019. This bipartisan bill would authorize the Transportation Security Administration to use the security service fee to pay our Transportation Security Officers during a government shutdown. Under current law, the security service fee is diverted to deficit reduction. “Our Federal workers, including our TSA officers, are suffering immensely under this government shutdown,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “While I continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to re-open the government, I’m working on ways to help alleviate the pressure on our Federal workers in the meantime. TSA officers have a vital role in protecting our nation’s security, and they should not be punished because Congress cannot come to an agreement. I’m proud to cosponsor this bill to ensure TSA officers are able to provide for their families during the shutdown. I will continue to implore Speaker Pelosi to come to the negotiation table so that we can re-open the government and get back to work.” Since her first term, Congresswoman Stefanik has been a consistent vote to keep the government open, keeping a promise to her constituents. ###
01.18.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Stefanik is a co-lead on H.R. 622, The Government Shutdown Prevention Act. The bill, introduced Wednesday, aims to fix the nonsensical budget process and do away with partisan politicking at the expense of federal workers. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have been a consistent vote to keep the government open,” Congresswoman Stefanik said. “My district is home to many federal workers who depend on Congress to ensure they have a stable paycheck and we have let them down time and time again. This bill is a significant step to end the partisan games that are played at the expense of North Country workers. I’m proud to co-lead this vital and long-overdue bill.” Since her first term, Congresswoman Stefanik has been a reliable vote to always keep the government open. This is a promise she made to her constituents, and is one she intends to keep. The Government Shutdown Prevention Act is also cosponsored by Reps. Lloyd Smucker (R-Pa.), John Curtis (R-Ut.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Bob Gibbs (R-Oh.), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), and Fred Upton (R-Mich.) ###
01.16.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 553, the Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act. This is a bi-partisan bill that allows surviving spouses of military members to not forgo their Military Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) payments if they become eligible for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) payments when their spouse dies. Under current law, surviving spouses who are eligible for both payments must forfeit a dollar of their SBP annuity for every DIC dollar they receive. This offset can completely wipe out the monthly SBP annuity that the family already spent years paying for. This bill would repeal provisions that require the offset of payments. “Our veterans and their families have already sacrificed so much,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “A surviving spouse of a military member should receive the best possible retiree benefits – they should not have to worry about their payments being erased due to an arbitrary law that requires them to forfeit the payments they so deserve. I am proud to continually stand with our military and their families and do everything in my power to make their lives easier. I am forever indebted to their ultimate sacrifice to our country.” The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) is in support of this bill. Congresswoman Stefanik was also a cosponsor of this bill in the 115th Congress.
12.31.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Maddie Anderson will serve as Communications Director and media contact for the 116th Congress beginning on January 3rd, 2019. "I am excited to announce that Maddie Anderson will be joining my team as Communications Director,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Maddie's myriad of experience in the political arena will bring a unique perspective to our office. Her work ethic and expertise will be pivotal in communicating the results our office is delivering for the 21st District." Maddie Anderson is from Annapolis, Maryland. Most recently, she served as the Southeast and Midwest Regional Press Secretary for the National Republican Congressional Committee. Prior to the NRCC, she served as Congressman Brian Mast’s (FL-18) Communications Director for his 2016 campaign. Maddie Anderson also worked on Carlos Beruff’s (R-FL) 2016 Senate race, and for Governor Bobby Jindal’s (R-LA) presidential campaign in Iowa in 2015. “I’m thrilled to be joining Congresswoman Stefanik’s office in the New Year,” said Ms. Maddie Anderson. “Congresswoman Stefanik’s work ethic is unmatched, and I look forward to helping her bring meaningful, bipartisan results to New York’s 21st District. I am eager to get to work.” Ms. Anderson will be replacing Deputy Chief of Staff and Communications Director, Tom Flanagin, who has accepted a position in the private sector. “I thank Tom for his four years of tireless work on behalf of our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Tom is a tremendous talent, and my office has greatly benefited from his creativity, drive and counsel. I know he will continue to do great things in his next position.” Maddie Anderson begins on January 3rd, 2019. In the meantime, please include stefanik.press@mail.house.gov and tom.flanagin@mail.house.gov on any press inquiries. ###
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed the Farm Bill into law: “I thank President Trump and all of my colleagues who worked tirelessly to deliver this important legislation for our North Country farmers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Getting the Farm Bill across the finish line was my top priority for the end of this year, and I am pleased that this law will deliver important wins for our district. This law includes reforms to help our dairy farmers, increases access to rural broadband, improves conservation and environmental stewardship, and provides resources to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic affecting many families in our region. I will continue to work on behalf of our North Country farmers in Congress.” Click here to read more about the wins for our district in the Farm Bill. ###
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that Bombardier has been awarded a $669 million contract for production in Plattsburgh: “This is tremendous news for Bombardier and our Plattsburgh region, and I commend Bombardier for manufacturing top-flight vehicles that continue to help our region prosper,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “"I am pleased to continue to work actively with Bombardier and the entire transportation equipment cluster in our region on mass transportation funding and other matters in Washington. Plattsburgh continues to lead the way as a hub for manufacturing in our region, and I will continue to pursue policies that will help our businesses succeed.” ###
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) recognized the 100th anniversary of the formation of the Adirondack 46ers from the House Floor. To be eligible for membership in the Adirondack 46ers, hikers must climb all 46 peaks of the Adirondack Mountains. In the century since their founding, the Adirondack 46ers have promoted conservation and community outreach in service to the Adirondack Park. Click here for a video of Congresswoman Stefanik’s speech; a full transcript can be found below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the 100th anniversary of the Adirondack 46ers – an organization in my district whose 10,000+ members have climbed all 46 peaks in the Adirondack Mountains. Since their founding by brothers Bob and George Marshall, the 46ers have been central to promoting environmental stewardship, protecting our natural resources, and encouraging younger generations to enjoy the great outdoors. The Adirondacks are an essential component of our tourism economy. The 46ers have done important work giving back to the mountains they love, making the peaks more accessible. They’ve also prioritized community outreach and volunteerism. Their all-volunteer trail maintenance program is critical to keeping trails available to hikers from across the world, in turn, protecting our environment. For the past century, young hikers have been mentored and trained by this dedicated group of environmental stewards, and I know that over the next 100 years, many more will be inspired to experience the Adirondack Mountains. Please join me in congratulating the 46ers on this incredible milestone. Thank you, I yield back. ###
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) released the following statement following House passage of H.R. 6930 – legislation she authored to designate the post office at 10 Miller Street in Plattsburgh as the “Ross Bouyea Post Office Building.” “I am thrilled that my House colleagues from districts across the nation supported my legislation to honor North Country war hero Ross Bouyea,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Over the course of his service with the U.S. Army’s 83rd Infantry ‘Thunderbolt’ Division, Ross Bouyea played a role in some of the most pivotal moments of the Second World War. Mr. Bouyea landed on Omaha Beach following the allied invasion of Normandy and saw 244 total days of combat that stretched across Europe. During this time, Mr. Bouyea fought in the Hurtgen Forest during the Battle of the Bulge and faced some of the harshest conditions that the war had to offer. Mr. Bouyea was also part of the division that liberated the Langenstein sub-camp of the Buchenwald concentration camp in 1945.” “By the end of the war, Mr. Bouyea’s unit had received seven distinguished unit citations and he personally had earned three service medals. Mr. Bouyea’s service to his country did not end when he was honorably discharged in 1945, however, as he continued to play a significant role in his community in the later years of his life. In addition to sharing his story with local schools in his hometown of Plattsburgh, New York, Mr. Bouyea worked with North Country Honor Flight to fly his fellow veterans to visit our nation’s war memorials in Washington D.C. Ross Bouyea passed away on March 11, 2018, five years after participating in an Honor Flight of his own.” “I am grateful to my colleagues for supporting this legislation and to the entire New York House delegation for supporting it from the very beginning. I am humbled by the opportunity to honor this North Country hero’s life and legacy.” Click here to learn more about Ross Bouyea from his friends and family members. ###
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement announcing her support for the final conference report for the Farm Bill: “Throughout this process I worked hard to ensure our district has a seat at the table, and I am pleased to report that this final bill includes many important wins for our North Country farmers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Critically for our Dairy Farmers that have been facing a crisis in recent years, this legislation builds upon the wins in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 and creates a new insurance program to replace the failed Margin Protection Program.” The Dairy Margin Coverage (DMC) Program: Creates new coverage levels for the first five million pounds of production Reduces premiums on catastrophic coverage Eliminates prohibitions of participating in both DMC and the Livestock Gross Margin Program Provides a 25% premium discount for producers who lock in coverage levels for the life of the Farm Bill In recognition of the failed MPP, producers who participated in MPP from 2014-2017 can receive 75% of their premiums in the form of future DMC premium credits or 50% in the form of a reimbursement Stefanik added, “Furthermore, as part of the new DMC, language I advocated for will require a comprehensive study on feed costs.” “Our farmers succeed when markets are open and our nation’s trade policies promote exports. This bill includes $200 million per year for Market Access Programs which help create new customers for American products abroad.” “Rural broadband expansion is essential for the North Country. I was pleased to see this Farm Bill prioritizes grants and loans for projects that will provide minimum download speeds of 10mbps, an improvement for many areas in the North Country.” “Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked in concert with the Northern Border Regional Commission to provide significant funding to projects across our district, and this final legislation expands the eligible counties list which will ensure that all twelve counties in our district will be eligible for these grant opportunities going forward.” “Furthermore, as a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I am pleased this bill delivers $82 million per year to fight the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic through increases in telemedicine. That is in addition to the over $10 billion in funding that I have already supported and passed. Additional prioritization is given for rural development projects that provide substance abuse treatment.” “I was pleased that my amendment to modernize the competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grants program was included. This change will realign the priorities of the grant program to focus on researching the characteristics and ecosystem-wide impact of invasive species while allowing for restoration projects of native forests that have suffered severe levels of mortality caused by invasive species.” “This final legislation includes important provisions related to conservation; including an additional $275 million in funding per year for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program and policy that will refocus the Conservation Stewardship Program toward soil health and mitigating the impact of volatile weather patterns.” “I thank my colleagues on the conference committee for their work and for including my input in this final bill, and I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this critical legislation for our farmers.” ###
12.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed S. 2248 – the Veterans Benefit and Transition Act. Congresswoman Stefanik’s legislation, H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act, was included in this broader package. This bill allows military spouses to establish the same state of residency as their servicemember for voting and tax purposes and keep that same state of residency through each relocation. Military spouses serve too, and this benefit will help to ease the burden on families frequently relocating to meet the needs of the U.S. military. Congresswoman Stefanik spoke from the House floor today to urge her colleagues to support her legislation. Watch Congresswoman Stefanik’s full speech by clicking here or on the image above. The transcript of Congresswoman Stefanik’s speech is below: Mr. Speaker, my legislation, included in the omnibus, gives all military spouses, regardless of which state they married in, the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member for voting and tax purposes. As the proud representative of Fort Drum and the Navy Site at Kesselring, I understand the challenges military families face and the sacrifices these families make to help protect our nation and safeguard our freedom. Military families are constantly relocating to meet the needs of the military. They sacrifice a great deal during these relocations—uprooting their lives and disrupting their families. This is often a difficult and trying time, with the heaviest burden falling upon military spouses who serve as a critical support system for their loved ones. Current law allows active duty service members to maintain one state of legal residence for tax and voting purposes, even when service members receive military orders requiring them to relocate. But this does not apply evenly to spouses. Spouses must establish residency every time the service member receives a new assignment—adding additional stress to families as they manage their relocation and seek new employment. My legislation, the Military Residency Choice Act, fixes this inconsistency to better ease these trying transitions. I urge my colleagues again to support this bill on a bipartisan basis, and I call on the President to sign this critical legislation into law. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
12.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 6108 -- the Preserve America’s Battlefields Act. This bipartisan legislation she cosponsored reauthorizes and increases funding for the Federal Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Program – a critical resource for the restoration and preservation of historical battlefield sites and a program that has benefitted battlefields in Sackets Harbor and Fort Ann. “I thank my colleagues for their overwhelming support for this legislation to increase funding for historical lands,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “From the battlefields of Sackets Harbor to Fort Ann, our district is steeped in rich military history. The North Country is home to hallowed lands that saw immense sacrifice and bloodshed in the early years of this Nation. Protecting historical battlefields is essential for creating rich educational programming for students, and for promoting our historic battlefields to tourists from across the globe to experience. I am pleased to help pass this legislation to bolster the Battlefield Land Acquisition Program and will continue advocating for our historic lands.” ###
12.10.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Lee Zeldin (R-NY-1), Peter King (R-NY-2), and Tom Reed (R-NY-23) sent a letter requesting that the Department of Justice investigate the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs’ failure to protect individuals with disabilities and Medicaid recipients who have died under state care, including nine who died while in state care in Suffolk County since 2013. Dozens of allegations related to staff abuses, patient neglect, sexual assaults and even patient deaths have been reported over the last few years, yet the New York State Justice Center, which is authorized to investigate all reports of abuse and neglect, pursue administrative sanctions against staff found responsible for misconduct, and prosecute criminal offenses through its Special Prosecutor/Inspector General sharing jurisdiction with local district attorneys, has consistently failed to perform these responsibilities and continues to operate without any added oversight or scrutiny. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, it is critical the Department of Justice investigate. “These are serious allegations, and I share the strong concerns of other local leaders and members of our community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These special needs homes provide a refuge for the most vulnerable in our community, and New York State must be diligent in ensuring their safety.” President of the Jonathan Carey Foundation Michael Carey said, “The NYS Justice Center is ensuring that staggering numbers of sexual assault crimes and deaths of children and adults with disabilities are covered-up internally and never prosecuted. This corrupt agency is not protecting people with special needs, but instead obstructing justice by purposefully keeping most reported crimes from the local police and county district attorneys. Federal authorities must intervene swiftly to stop the criminal cover-ups and to end the wide-scale discrimination in which the disabled are denied their 14th Amendment right to ‘equal protection of laws.’ The Justice Center must be stopped, it is directly involved in a massive Medicaid fraud scheme by protecting dangerous facilities that are misappropriating massive amounts of federal tax dollars.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Main Washington, D.C. 20530 We write today regarding the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs’ (the Center’s) inability to ensure the protection of individuals with special needs. Many allegations relating to staff abuses, patient neglect, sexual assaults and even patient deaths have been reported, yet the Center consistently fails to act in an appropriate manner and continues to operate without any necessary additional oversight or scrutiny. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, we request the Department of Justice investigate due process violations and other criminal offenses that the Center has not addressed. While the Center claims to have the legal authority to prosecute criminal cases against disabled persons, the Center brings criminal charges against less than 2.5% of total cases of substantiated abuse or neglect of disabled persons and has declined to investigate nearly 1,400 deaths of developmentally disabled individuals residing in state care. Further, it is our understanding that the Center has frequently neglected to report instances of ongoing abuse to law enforcement. Records obtained and published by the New York Times indicate that only 5% of the 13,000 cases of abuse recorded in state-operated facilities for the disabled were referred to law enforcement. In April 2018, a 34 year old male was found dead in his room a day after complaining of having trouble breathing, however no official investigation has been conducted to date past an insufficient internal review conducted by the care facility. Instead of referring the overwhelming majority of cases to law enforcement officials, the Center allowed facilities to conduct internal reviews, which often times included disciplinary actions unbefitting of the allegations. In fact, through information obtained by Freedom of Information Law requests filed, the New York Department of Health (NYDOH) revealed that it never received a case from the Justice Center between June 30, 2013, and April 1, 2016. This failure to report to NYDOH appears to violate the provision within the Center’s founding charter which mandates that it forward substantiated reports of abuse and neglect to the Medicaid Inspector General. This practice is troublesome as the Center’s encouragement of internal reviews such as this discourages transparency and public reporting of inappropriate and potentially criminal acts. Additionally, the Albany Times Union reported at least 25 registered sex offenders residing in state-run facilities for the developmentally disabled in Suffolk, Washington and Franklin Counties, and these are just 3 counties of New York State. One former New York special prosecutor and inspector general, Patricia Gunning, investigated strangulation assault at State facilities. Ms. Gunning’s investigation, as reported by Newsday, was rejected and denied by state officials concerned about “the optics” of this subject. When Ms. Gunning brought this complaint up the chain to the state’s employment assistance program, she was warned it would destroy her career. Soon after, Ms. Gunning was told that the Governor’s office wanted to take the Justice Center in a “new direction,” and was subsequently fired. This clear lack of appropriate oversight must be fully investigated for the appropriate parties to be held accountable and to ensure that these practices cease immediately. New York spends over $75 billion per year on its Medicaid program, second only to California, but fails to properly take care of its most vulnerable population by an independent statewide level law enforcement agency designed to protect disabled individuals. This is a blatant misuse of taxpayer dollars and an investigation is critical. Individuals with disabilities deserve full and equal protection under the law, however, disabled individuals in New York State have been unable to avail themselves of the criminal justice system due to the lack of action taken by the Center. Therefore, we request the Department of Justice investigate the lack of prosecutions, referrals and due process violations that have been alleged. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this matter. ###
12.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Peter Welch (D-VT), announced that VT residents Seth Albertus and Dalton Benjamin – students at Northeastern Clinton Central School in Champlain, NY – have been named the winners of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge in NY-21. “I am excited to announce that Seth and Dalton’s hard work and innovation has earned them the honor of showcasing their winning app in the U.S. Capitol for visitors from around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik, Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus. “Training in STEAM is essential for preparing students for the high-skilled careers of tomorrow, and this great achievement is proof of the valuable work being done by the teachers at Northeastern Clinton Central School. Seth and Dalton were able take computer science classes made possible in part by the Upward Bound Grant Program, and I am pleased my office was able to help secure this important funding. I am confident that Seth and Dalton’s accomplishment will inspire other students to pursue education in computer science.” “I am so impressed with the talent and creativity of young people across Vermont, who are learning important skills to prepare them for tomorrow’s economy,” said Congressman Welch. “Congratulations to Seth and Dalton, and I look forward to seeing their wonderful innovation in the Capitol.” Seth and Dalton’s application, “My Augmented Life,” uses augmented reality technology to bring 3-D objects to real-world environments. This application can be used by a variety of industries, such as interior design, which would utilize the application’s augmented reality technology to place 3-D modeled furniture into various interiors. Their winning application will not only be displayed in the U.S. Capitol building but will also be featured on the Congressional App Challenge website. A video demonstration of their application can be viewed here ###
12.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “I join the nation in honoring the life and legacy of President George. H.W. Bush, a true son of America who lived an extraordinary life of service, grace, strength, and character. He embodied what it means when we say the ‘Greatest Generation.’ “President Bush will be remembered by the world for his enduring strength that brought an end to the Cold War, his extraordinary commitment to serving others through his thousand points of light, and his beautifully written letters. He was truly a great man who lived a giant life. “I am so blessed to have met President Bush many times while serving his son President George W. Bush in the White House. I am praying for the entire Bush family at this difficult time. I know his beloved angels Barbara and Robin are welcoming this hero in Heaven. May He Rest In Peace.” ###
11.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) today announced Anthony Pileggi will serve as Chief of Staff for her office in the 116th Congress. Mr. Pileggi was born and raised in Herkimer County. Most recently, Mr. Pileggi served as the Northeast Regional Political Director for the National Republican Congressional Committee. Prior to his service at the NRCC, Mr. Pileggi served as Congresswoman Stefanik’s District Director from 2015 to 2017 and ran her successful 2014 and 2016 Congressional campaigns. Additionally, Mr. Pileggi successfully managed former Rep. Richard Hanna’s (NY-22) 2012 re-election campaign and served as a Regional Director for his congressional office. “I am excited to announce that Anthony will join my team as Chief of Staff. Anthony knows the 21st District intimately and is a tremendously hard worker. His work ethic, along with his background and skillset, will bring great institutional knowledge and energy to our Congressional office,” Stefanik said. Mr. Pileggi joins the team and replaces outgoing Chief of Staff, Lindley Kratovil Sherer. Mrs. Sherer served as Congresswoman Stefanik’s Chief of Staff since her election in 2014 and is transitioning to the private sector. “I am so grateful to Lindley for her tireless work serving the families of our district. I have been lucky to have Lindley at the helm in my first two terms in office. She is a capable adviser who brings a wealth of experience from both the Legislative and Executive Branches of how to navigate the legislative process in Washington,” Rep. Stefanik said. “I look forward to her success in the next chapter.” Mr. Pileggi, will officially begin work in January 2019. ###
11.01.2018	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she will be sharing stories of North Country veterans on her Congressional website throughout the month of November in honor of Veterans Day. “The North Country is steeped in rich military tradition and is home to some of the bravest patriots this country has ever known,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “On Veterans Day, Americans across the country pause to honor those who have served, but their sacrifice is so much bigger than just one day. Please help me honor these men and women who have served by allowing me to share their stories and photos with a grateful nation throughout November. Our military service members have sacrificed so much to keep our nation safe, and I am honored to serve these brave veterans in Congress.” For residents of New York’s 21st District who have served in the military or know someone who has, Congresswoman Stefanik is inviting them to submit photos and stories from their time in service to our office. Congresswoman Stefanik will be adding these stories and photos on her official website (https://stefanik.house.gov/veterans-share-your-story) and Facebook page throughout the month of November. Please submit your stories and photos to ny21vets@mail.house.gov or to our Glens Falls office at 136 Glen Street, Glens Falls, N.Y., 12801. Please do not mail original photos. Those who are submitting material are asked to include a short description of the branch, title, and assignment for photos. Also, they are asked ensure they have permission to share photos and stories before sending. ###
10.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 6988, the Museum and Library Services Act. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes services provided under the Museum and Library Services Act through 2023. The Museum and Library Services Act provides critical support to museums, libraries, and other educational organizations through a variety of funding streams, including programs administered by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). IMLS has previously awarded $249,400 to Fort Ticonderoga, $24,321 to the Wild Center, and $156,573 to the Adirondack Museum as part of its Museums for America (MFA) Grant Program. H.R. 6988 also includes measures to improve data collection on federal library and museum support outcomes, encourage recruitment opportunities for library and museum staff, and encourage the role of libraries as community hubs in rural and underserved areas. “Museums are essential for protecting our rich North Country history and for sharing our way of life with visitors from around the world,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Funding provided by the Museum and Library Services Act has helped several local organizations further develop their programming, expand employment opportunities, and bolster the pride we all have in our region’s unique place in American history. I am proud to support efforts to protect North Country history for future generations and will continue working in Congress to support our museums and libraries.” ###
10.24.2018	Hudson Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was recognized by community leaders at a Community Action Roundtable hosted by Learning, Employment, Assistance & Partnership (LEAP), the Community Action Agency in Washington County, for her efforts in the 115th Congress to increase funding for the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) program. LEAP provides funding assistance to low-income individuals and families in Washington County, and is supported in part by the CSBG program. This year, Congresswoman Stefanik led a group of House Republican lawmakers on a letter urging the House Appropriations Committee to increase CSBG funding to $750 million. "In order to create vibrant communities, we must start by building strong families, and I applaud LEAP for their continued support of our region’s most vulnerable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “CSBG grants are critical to local agencies working to tackle issues ranging from poverty to combating the heroin and opioid epidemic, and we must prioritize their funding. I am grateful to Washington County LEAP and the countless community organizations who attended today’s Community Action Roundtable to discuss the implementation of CSBG funding and presented ideas for future projects to help those in need. I will continue working in Congress to ensure the CSBG program is supported so that our district’s low-income families receive the resources they need to thrive.” In June, the House Appropriations Committee agreed to Congresswoman Stefanik’s requested CSBG funding increase by including it in the recent appropriations bill that was signed into law. Click here to read more. Congresswoman Stefanik is a cosponsor of the Community Action Opioid Response Grant Act. This bipartisan legislation would benefit many of the community organizations present at today’s roundtable by establishing the Community Action Opioid Response Grant as a competitive grant program within the Department of Health and Human Services. Click here to read more about this legislation. ###
10.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, issued the following statement before President Trump signs into law the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act – a comprehensive, bipartisan legislative package to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. This package includes dozens of measures and includes several Medicaid, Medicare, and public health reforms to help combat the opioid crisis. "The heroin and opioid epidemic is ravaging communities throughout the North Country and across the nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I thank my colleagues for their work advancing this critical legislation through Congress, and I am grateful to President Trump for signing this package into law. Communities in our district continue to struggle under the weight of this devastating epidemic. This comprehensive package delivers important support to prevent addiction, encourage treatment and recovery, as well as initiatives that will keep our communities safe. Local organizations like Substance Abuse Prevention and Recovery of Clinton County (SPARCC), the Essex County Heroin and Opioid Prevention Coalition (ECHO), and the Jefferson County Alliance for Better Communities are doing important work in the fight against this epidemic, and I am proud to be their partner in Congress. I will continue working to advance policies that promote recovery and save lives.” Congresswoman Stefanik has previously worked to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, the 21st Century Cures Act, and supported $10 billion in funding to combat addiction. Recently, Congresswoman Stefanik helped her House colleagues pass dozens of bills to fight the opioid epidemic. Click here for reaction from local officials to Congresswoman Stefanik’s work on opioids. This past summer, constituent Bob Dean from Queensbury shared his personal story of family tragedy that led to his anti-opioid advocacy in a video released by Congresswoman Stefanik. To hear his story and to learn more about Congresswoman Stefanik’s work in Congress to combat opioid abuse, click here. ###
10.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement on the news that Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits for more than 67 million Americans will increase 2.8 percent in 2019 – the largest increase in seven years. “This is great news for seniors across our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our offices are proud to work on behalf of Social Security beneficiaries to ensure they are receiving the correct amount they are owed, and to date we have helped recover over $1.9 million in Social Security benefits for our seniors. I will continue to work in Congress to protect Social Security and ensure that constituents in our district receive the benefits they deserve.” ###
10.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 1893, the Great Lakes and Fresh Water Algal Bloom Information Act, and H.R. 4417, Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2017. These bills seek to combat algal blooms that threaten our waters, including Lake George. “As a Member of the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, I am pleased to lend my support to advance these important environmental bills,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Harmful Algal blooms threaten to disrupt the health of our North Country waters, and these bills will increase research and help provide resources to protect our natural ecology. In Congress, I will continue to work across the aisle to protect our North Country treasures.” Background: H.R. 1893, Great Lakes and Fresh Water Algal Bloom Information Act This legislation would require the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to create an electronic database of research and information on the causes and corrective actions being taken with regard to algal blooms in the Great Lakes, their tributaries, and other surface fresh waters. H.R. 4417, Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2017 This legislation would increase inter-agency, regional, state, and local collaboration to address harmful algal bloom and hypoxia events. The legislation would establish a process for declaration of an “Event of National Significance” which triggers disaster-like funding to be available for affected communities and would allow private donations to help fund recovery in an event of national significance.
10.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H. Res. 1090, the “Break the Gridlock” resolution. This bipartisan resolution makes changes to the House rules intended to break through legislative gridlock and promote commonsense governing. This package builds on Congresswoman Stefanik’s record of consensus building that includes being recognized by the Lugar Center as one of the most bipartisan Members of Congress. “Hardworking families in my district and across the country are tired of the endless partisan bickering that has become far too common in Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “If Congress is going to get important work done for constituents back home, the rules of the House must change. This bipartisan package contains important institutional reforms that will make House leadership more reflective of the entire legislative body, eliminate roadblocks to smart policymaking, and ensure that members of both parties are able to offer amendments to major pieces of legislation. I pledged to be an independent voice for the North Country and will continue building on this record of bipartisanship to deliver results for the families I am proud to represent.” The “Break the Gridlock” package includes proposals to give fast-track priority consideration to bipartisan legislation. To learn more about the Break the Gridlock resolution, click here. ###
10.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded nearly $2.2 million in U.S. Department of Education Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP) Grants being awarded to Mohawk Valley Community College and the Ticonderoga Central School District. The GEAR UP program is designed to increase attendance of low-income students in post-secondary education programs. GEAR UP funds are directed toward designated cohorts of students no older than seventh grade and provide support for these students through high school as they begin to pursue higher education. "These grants are incredible news for many students and families in our district," said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, ensuring our students are prepared for higher education is a top priority of mine. The costs of attending college have skyrocketed in recent years. It is more important than ever for students to enter college well-prepared so that they can graduate on-time and on-budget. These funds will go a long way toward helping students at Mohawk Valley Community College and in the Ticonderoga Central School District prepare themselves for successful college careers. I’ll keep working in Congress to ensure that our students have the skills they need to be successful as they pursue their higher education goals.” GEAR UP grant award totals can be found below: Mohawk Valley Community College: $536,000.00 Ticonderoga Central School District: $1,660,000.00 To learn more about the U.S. Department of Education’s GEAR UP program, click here. ###
10.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement: "This is tremendous news for our North Country economy, and I applaud U.S. and Canadian negotiators for their tireless work on this important agreement. I have been a strong advocate for modernizing our trade agreement with Canada and Mexico in Congress, and I am pleased that this framework will open up the Canadian dairy markets for our North Country farmers who have been struggling. Canadian trade has supported millions of jobs since NAFTA took effect, and reaching this agreement is critical to the continued success of our region." ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has introduced H.R. 6930 – a bill to designate the post office at 10 Miller Street, Plattsburgh, NY, as the Ross Bouyea Post Office Building. “Over the course of his service with the U.S. Army’s 83rd Infantry “Thunderbolt” Division, Ross Bouyea played a role in some of the most pivotal moments of the Second World War,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Mr. Bouyea landed on Omaha Beach following the allied invasion of Normandy and saw 244 total days of combat that stretched across Europe. During this time, Mr. Bouyea fought in the Hurtgen Forest during the Battle of the Bulge and faced some of the harshest conditions that the war had to offer. Mr. Bouyea was also part of the division that liberated the Langenstein sub-camp of the Buchenwald concentration camp in 1945.” “By the end of the war, Mr. Bouyea’s unit had received seven distinguished unit citations and he personally had earned three service medals. Mr. Bouyea’s service to his country did not end when he was honorably discharged in 1945, however, as he continued to play a significant role in his community in the later years of his life. In addition to sharing his story with local schools in his hometown of Plattsburgh, New York, Mr. Bouyea worked with North Country Honor Flight to fly his fellow veterans to visit our nation’s war memorials in Washington D.C. Ross Bouyea passed away on March 11, 2018, five years after participating in an Honor Flight of his own.” “I am humbled to introduce this resolution to honor the life and legacy of Mr. Ross Bouyea – a true North Country hero.” This bipartisan legislation is cosponsored by the entire New York House delegation. What They’re Saying: Barrie Finnegan, Executive Director, North Country Honor Flight: “Ross Bouyea was the face of North Country Honor Flight since its inception. Ross was always willing to go to all events and presentations -- he loved people, especially the school kids. His stories have been dropping jaws since he started telling them. The fact that he walked from Omaha Beach all the way to Germany was impressive enough, but there are stories from all along his route. We are at a rare moment in time, WWII Veterans such as Ross are passing away rather quickly. The importance of honoring these heroes cannot be understated. We would like to take the opportunity to thank our Congresswoman Elise Stefanik for putting forth the effort to get Ross immortalized on our Post Office. Elise had many interactions with Ross, and her caring for him and all our Veterans has always shown through. The Congresswoman has been to every Honor Flight but one, she was in Kyrgyzstan at the time. We couldn’t thank the Congresswoman enough for all she does for North Country Veterans.” Judy Stevens, Plattsburgh, NY: “My uncle, Ross Bouyea, was a very kind and generous man who helped out anyone in need. He talked about the history of World War II at many of the schools in the area and the kids loved him. My uncle also went to all of the Honor Flights to send off all of the brave American Veterans. He fought for the love of his country and freedom for all, and is sadly missed as a true American War Hero.” Chuck O’Connor, Peru, NY: “I met Ross during my time volunteering at the senior center in Plattsburgh and developed a close friendship with him. Ross joined the army at nineteen because he felt it was his responsibility to serve his country, and he went off to war not knowing what he would face. He bravely served from Omaha Beach through the Battle of the Bulge and into Germany, fighting to protect our freedoms here at home. Ross shared his experiences during the war as a way to honor those who fought alongside him, and to educate the young and old alike, not for personal glory. Ross was an incredibly humble and caring person, and it was truly an honor to have known him. I want to thank Congresswoman Stefanik for all she does for our North Country Veterans and thank her for her efforts in honoring Ross’s memory.” ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the Family Savings Act that expands the ability for individuals and families to use a variety of savings vehicles. She also voted in support of the American Innovation Act that doubles the amount of start-up and organizational costs that can be deducted in the first year of operations. “These tax bills provide important reforms for families in the North Country who are saving for education or for retirement, and help incentivize entrepreneurship and job creation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I recently had the opportunity to host a discussion on retirement security issues with policy experts and financial professionals as part of my work on the RPC Millennial Task Force, and I am pleased that many of the important reforms that we discussed are included in the Family Savings Act. By helping families and younger generations save, we can ensure they are on sound financial footing throughout their lives. And by encouraging more North Country innovators to start small businesses, we can continue to grow our local economy and provide good paying jobs right here in our community. I will continue to work in Congress on commonsense reforms that get government out of the way and allow North Country families to pursue their dreams.” Background: American Innovation Act Summary: The bill doubles the amount of start-up and organizational costs that can be expensed in the first year of operations. The bill allows a taxpayer to immediately deduct up to $20,000 in combined start-up and organizational expenditures. This deduction is phased out to the extent that a taxpayer’s start-up and organizational expenditures, in the aggregate, exceed $120,000. Additionally, the bill generally provides that a corporation’s start-up losses and start-up credits are not limited in the event that the corporation undergoes an ownership change. The bill is needed to restart American business and entrepreneurial innovation. New business formation took a dramatic downturn during the recession, but the decline has been ongoing for decades: In 1977, start-up businesses made up 16% of all businesses In 2015, start-up businesses made up only 8% of all businesses Family Savings Act Summary: The bill expands the ability for individuals and families to use a variety of savings vehicles. The bill includes reforms to make it easier for employers, especially small employers, to provide retirement plans to their employees. In addition, the bill establishes universal savings accounts, which are individual accounts that Americans can use to save for any purpose, in order to encourage families to save earlier and in greater amounts. The bill further expands the permitted uses of 529 education savings plans. The bill also includes a provision that allows individuals to withdraw funds from their retirement accounts, penalty-free, at the birth or adoption of a child. Additional provisions include: Allowing small businesses to join together to create a 401(k) plan more affordable Giving employers more time to put new retirement plans in place Simplifying the rules for participation in employer plans Eliminating the age limit on IRA contributions Allowing military reservists to maximize their retirement contributions Allowing families to access their own retirement accounts on a penalty-free basis to use as they see fit when welcoming a new child into the family, whether by birth or adoption. And allowing families to replenish those retirement accounts in the future. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed H.R. 302, as amended, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Department of Transportation (DOT), and the Essential Air Service (EAS) for five years. It will soon be sent to the President to be signed into law. “This reauthorization and infrastructure package is critical to the safety of air traffic and to the development of our airports,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased that my initiative was included to promote more opportunity for women in the aviation industry. This bill also reauthorizes the Essential Air Service, which is critical to maintaining commercial air service for small, rural airports in our district. The economic success of our region is closely tied to the health of our local airports and air service, and I am pleased to support this important legislation that will soon be signed into law.” The FAA Reauthorization Act: Reauthorizes the FAA and the DOT to carry out activities related to civil aviation for five years Increases and fully authorizes the Airport Improvement Program, which funds construction of critical infrastructure at airports of all sizes to ensure the long-term sustainability of airports across the country including smaller communities Streamlines the FAA certification process to ensure U.S. companies can compete globally and get their products to market on time Includes a number of safety provisions to protect the traveling public Includes provisions to address the passenger experience, strengthen consumer protection laws, and maintain the Department of Transportation’s oversight of aviation consumer issues Provides the FAA with a number of tools, methods, and strategies to mitigate the impact of airport noise and the communities neighboring airports Advances drone technologies to the next step in safe unmanned aircraft system integration Includes the Disaster Recovery Reform Act which: Reforms the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Stafford Act by ensuring that a percentage of assistance provided in the wake of disasters is invested in predisaster hazard mitigation so that states, tribal, and local governments can pre-empt the damage and distress that results from disasters Clarifies what may be eligible for mitigation funding, making sure investments are cost effective and reduce risk Speeds recovery by creating efficiencies in FEMA’s programs such as getting structures inspected faster Rep. Stefanik cosponsored The Promoting Women in the Aviation Workforce Act that was included in this legislation and would: Express the sense of Congress that the aviation industry should explore all opportunities to encourage and support women to pursue a career in aviation; Direct the FAA to create and facilitate a Women in Aviation Advisory Board to promote organizations and programs that provide education, training, mentorship, outreach, and recruitment of women in the aviation industry; and Direct the FAA to submit a report to Congress on common trends that discourage women from pursuing aviation careers; expanding existing scholarship opportunities for women in aviation; and coordinating professional training and recruitment programs ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass the conference report to H.R. 6157 – the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act. “I am pleased to help pass this important package that provides necessary funding for our government, including for the Department of Defense,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Critical to my support, this package fully funds the troop pay raise I advocated for on the House Armed Services Committee. This package helps rebuild our military after the previous Administration gutted readiness levels and it finally stops poor and unpredictable budgeting from hamstringing the Department of Defense (DoD) and distracting our servicemembers from focusing on their core missions. I am pleased this bill includes report language asking DoD to prioritize military construction projects for rapidly deployable units, like the 10th Mountain Division based at Fort Drum. “This legislation includes other priorities of mine as well, including increased funding for the important research done by the NIH to find cures and treatments that will help families in our district. It also includes nearly $7 billion to continue fighting the opioid epidemic and to fund the 21st Century Cures Act that I helped pass. This package also includes a short term extension of the Violence Against Women Act while we continue to negotiate a longer-term reauthorization. This is a critical priority of mine that I have worked on with victims’ advocates across our district. “I thank my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their work in this legislation.” Department of Defense $674.4 billion for the Department of Defense – consistent with the FY19 NDAA $67.9 billion in OCO to support ongoing operations Fully funds the largest pay raise for our troops in 9 years – and increases total troop end strength $243.2 billion in Operations and Maintenance to support readiness programs and to train our forces to counter the threats to our national security $148 billion to procure additional ships, aircraft, tanks, weapons and other platforms to ensure our troops have the resources they need Increases funding for research, missile defense, and defense health programs Enactment of the Conference report would be the first time in 10 years DOD will not operate under harmful Continuing Resolutions (CR) that prevent the Department from accurately planning to combat national security threats Report language asking DoD to prioritize military construction projects for rapidly deployable units that currently cannot meet their operations plans Labor-HHS-Ed $178 billion - $1 billion above FY18 – for medical research, education, and job training $90 billion for HHS, of which $39 billion for NIH - $2 billion increase above FY18 Nearly $7 billion to fight the opioid epidemic and funds activities authorized under 21st Century Cures Act $228 million above FY18 and includes $1.5 billion in state opioid response grants Nearly $7 billion to fight the opioid epidemic and funds activities authorized under 21st Century Cures Act Increases funding for special education, Pell Grants, Impact Aid, charter school Continuing Resolution Provides a short-term CR until December 7, 2018 Extends the Violence Against Women Act until December 7, 2018 Makes available an additional $8.8 billion for the victims of Hurricane Florence ###
09.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was awarded the “Guardian of Small Business” Award by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) for her work in Congress to support small businesses and promote entrepreneurship. “I grew up in a small business family and know how critical supporting small businesses is for our North Country economy and for creating jobs in our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Individuals and families across our district take significant financial risks in order to pursue their dreams of owning a small business, and I am proud to advance policies in Congress to help these entrepreneurs succeed. I am grateful to the NFIB for this prestigious award, and I will continue to work in Congress on smart policies that help our small businesses thrive.” ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) supported House passage of the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act, S. 2554, and the Know the Lowest Price Act, S. 2553. “I am pleased to help pass these important, bipartisan bills to address prescription drug costs,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Families across our district, especially seniors, continue to struggle with the costs of their prescription drugs, and these two bills increase transparency and make it easier for consumers to purchase the lowest cost available drugs at the pharmacy. I will continue to work across the aisle to ensure the North Country has access to quality, affordable healthcare.” These two bills have already passed the Senate and are being sent to President Trump to be signed into law. In April, Congresswoman Stefanik wrote an op-ed in the Sun Community News about her work to lower the costs of prescription drugs that can be read here. ###
09.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the National Association of Federally Impacted Schools (NAFIS) recognized Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) with the Friend of NAFIS Award. This award, which was presented at the 2018 NAFIS Fall Conference, celebrates recipients for outstanding contributions to the Impact Aid Program. “I am honored to receive the Friend of NAFIS Award from the National Association of Federally Impacted Schools,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Federal Impact Aid is critical to supporting military communities across the nation and is used by Indian River and Carthage Central School Districts. I am pleased to be an advocate for this essential program, and I will continue to work to protect and support the Federal Impact Aid Program as a member of both the House Armed Services Committee and the Committee on Education and the Workforce. Thank you to NAFIS for your support and dedicated work for our students.” “Congresswoman Stefanik played an integral role in ensuring that federally impacted school districts will continue to have the resources they need to offer the quality of education students deserve,” said NAFIS Executive Director Hilary Goldmann. “Impact Aid is a critical component of many school districts’ budgets, paying for teacher salaries, social/emotional supports, student transportation technology and other education programming and support based on local needs, ensuring students in New York and throughout the country have access to opportunities needed for success in school and life.” Impact Aid reimburses school districts for the loss of revenue caused by the presence of nontaxable Federal property, including military installations; Indian Trust, Treaty and Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act lands; Federal low-income housing facilities; and national parks, national laboratories and other Federal buildings and property. Impact Aid helps ensure students who attend schools on or near Federal property have access to a quality education. ###
09.14.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, has introduced the Cyber Ready Workforce Act. This bipartisan bill would establish a grant program within the Department of Labor to support the creation, implementation, and expansion of registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity. “As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan bill that will help equip our workforce with the jobs of tomorrow and strengthen our nation’s cybersecurity capabilities,” said Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21). “Cybersecurity is in demand and we must cultivate our workforce to ensure these needs are met. I urge my colleagues to support this important national security bill.” “The demand for talent in cybersecurity is sky-high, and we’re putting ourselves at risk if we don’t address this shortage in our workforce,” said Congresswoman Jacky Rosen (NV-03). “I’m committed to ensuring that businesses and government have the skilled people and critical tools they need to enhance our nation’s cybersecurity infrastructure, help industry thrive, and strengthen our national security. Everything we do in today’s economy is shaped by technology, and I will continue to work with my House colleagues to ensure our families and communities are better protected against cyber threats.” BACKGROUND: The Cyber Ready Workforce Act would establish a grant program within the Department of Labor whereby the Secretary of Labor shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to workforce intermediaries, to support the creation, implementation, and expansion of registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity. Support services provided to apprentices may include career counseling, mentorship, and assistance with transportation, housing, and child care costs. View text of the bill here. ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues Rep. John Faso (R-NY-19) and Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08) introduced the Violence Against Women Extension Act – a six-month clean extension of the expiring provisions of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues recently wrote a letter to House Leadership urging action on this critical legislation before the September 30th deadline. “I am pleased to be joined by my colleagues on this important effort to stand up to domestic violence and extend this crucial legislation for six months as we work to pass a long-term reauthorization,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “VAWA provides lifesaving services to communities across the country and it’s critical that Congress act quickly given there are only six legislative days until it expires. This is an issue that affects every district in the country and I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion on a long-term reauthorization for VAWA. I urge House Leadership to swiftly bring this bill up for vote.” “VAWA programs are instrumental in increasing awareness of domestic and sexual abuse, improving services and support available to victims, and enhancing law enforcement training and response to these crimes,” said Congressman Faso. “For the safety of our communities, to continue protecting and supporting survivors, we must not allow VAWA to expire. This six-month extension of the legislation is critical, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to pass a long-term reauthorization.” “Congress must continue to aggressively combat domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking by swiftly reauthorizing the bipartisan Violence Against Women Act (VAWA),” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. “While there is still considerable work to be done, VAWA has drastically improved our nation’s response to safeguarding women and children from abuse and anguish. A six-month extension provides Congress the opportunity to hold hearings and make improvements to VAWA without threatening critical existing programs. I urge House Leadership to bring up this extension for a vote immediately.” Click here for bill text. Original cosponsors of this bill include Reps. Don Bacon (R-NE-02), Susan Brooks (R-IN-05), Mike Coffman (R-CO-06), Rodney Davis (R-IL-13), John Faso (R-NY-19), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08), and Steve Stivers (R-OH-15). ###
09.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored H.R. 6108, the Preserve America’s Battlefields Act. This legislation reauthorizes and increases funding for the Federal Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Program – a critical resource for the restoration and preservation of historical battlefield sites. “From the Battle of Saratoga that turned the tides of the American Revolution, to the Battle of Plattsburgh that marked a decisive victory against the British in the War of 1812, our district is steeped in rich military history,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The North Country is home to hallowed lands that saw immense sacrifice and bloodshed in the early years of this Nation. Protecting historical battlefields is essential for creating rich educational programming for students, and for promoting our historic battlefields to tourists from across the globe to experience. I am proud to cosponsor this legislation to bolster the Battlefield Land Acquisition Program and will continue advocating for our historic lands.” ###
09.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a group of Republican lawmakers sent a letter urging House leadership to bring a bipartisan reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) to the House floor. The current law is set to expire on September 30th. “The Violence Against Women Act is essential to standing up to domestic violence,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “VAWA provides lifesaving services to communities across the country and it’s critical that Congress act quickly to reauthorize it. This is a bipartisan issue that affects every district in the country and we must act now to avoid any lapse in these critical services.” The letter is signed by the following members: John Katko (R-N.Y.), Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), John Faso (R-N.Y.), Peter T. King (R-NY), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Penn.), David Joyce (R-Ohio), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio), Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.), Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), Jim Renacci (R-Ohio), David Valadao (R-Calif.), Steve Knight (R-Calif.), Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), Tom Reed (R-N.Y.), Barbara Comstock (R-Vir.), Larry Bucshon (R-Ind.), Daniel Donovan (R-N.Y.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Leonard Lance (R-N.J.), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), Mimi Walters (R-Calif.), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-Wash.), John Curtis (R-Utah), Ryan Costello (R-Penn.), Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), Mike Bost (R-Ill.), Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), David McKinley (W.V.), Bill Johnson (R-Ohio), Jennifer Gonzalez Colon (R-P.R.), Bob Gibbs (R-Ohio), Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.), Scott Taylor (R-Vir.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Lynn Jenkins (R-Kan.), Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), Mike Bishop (R-Mich.), David Young (R-Iowa), Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.), Bruce Poliquin (R-Maine), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), Fred Upton (R-Mich.), and Greg Walden (R-Ore.). Text of the letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy:Dear Speaker Ryan: As you know, on September 30th the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) is set to expire, leaving us only seven legislative days to prevent a lapse in authorization. We therefore write to urge you to advance a bipartisan reauthorization of VAWA without delay. Since being signed into law in 1994, VAWA has helped to protect and support millions of Americans who have faced domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. This landmark legislation has drastically improved our nation’s response to these crimes and has contributed to the overall declining rates of domestic abuse since its enactment. However, instances of violence are still very common. According to the Centers for Disease Control, in our country, about 1 in 3 women and 1 in 6 men experience some form of contact sexual violence during their lifetime. Programs authorized and funded under VAWA work to protect girls, boys, men, and women from these terrible crimes. The programs provide funding to ensure safety and support for survivors, increase prevention efforts, expand educational awareness surrounding domestic violence and sexual assault, implement training for health professionals and law enforcement, and to coordinate responses across agencies. We have all seen the positive impact of these programs in our districts and have met individuals in our communities who have benefited from the protections this law provides. This is not a partisan issue. VAWA has been continually reauthorized on a bipartisan basis in Congress. We must act now to maintain and strengthen this critical law. We urge expeditious reauthorization of VAWA and thank you for your attention to this important issue. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Ted Lieu (D-CA-33) introduced the bipartisan U.S.-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act. The legislation authorizes the Department of Defense to carry out bilateral cooperation with Israel to develop directed energy capabilities that address threats to both nations. Upon introduction, Rep. Stefanik said: “In order to protect our nation and our interests, we must collaborate with our allies to effectively counter a range of adversarial threats we face around the globe. I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation that increases U.S.-Israel cooperation on directed energy technology to help ensure greater security for the United States and Israel. Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and through greater cooperation we can more effectively combat threats facing our two nations.” Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “Directed energy technologies like high-powered lasers and microwaves will be game-changers for our national defense, drastically improving our ability to counter ballistic missiles and other major threats. The U.S. should be leveraging all available expertise to bring these tools to bear. I am proud to introduce the U.S.-Israel Directed Energy Cooperation Act with Rep. Stefanik to support bilateral collaboration with our ally Israel, another leader in directed energy research.” --- In 2017, the Department of Defense issued a report to Congress on the merits of U.S.-Israel cooperation on directed energy, concluding that, “The United States should pursue joint collaboration with Israel on directed energy capabilities.” In 2018, Michael Griffin, Undersecretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, discussed the future of directed energy weapons at the Directed Energy Summit. According to media coverage, the Undersecretary conveyed that, “America should also take advantage of the brain power that traditional U.S. allies and partners can offer in the development of these technologies so they can be developed together.” READ THE TEXT OF THE BILL ###
09.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a series of Museums for America (MFA) Grants awarded to museums in New York’s 21st Congressional District by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The MFA Grant Program is the IMLS’s largest discretionary program for museums. These grants are designed to promote the role of museums and educational programs in communities by strengthening their ability to serve the public. Grant totals within the 21st District exceed $430,000. “Museums are essential for protecting our rich North Country history and for sharing our way of life with visitors from around the world,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This funding will enable three local organizations to further develop their programming, expand employment opportunities, and bolster the pride we all have in our region’s unique place in American history. I congratulate the recipients of these important grants, and thank them for their years of work serving the public and enriching lives through education.” Information about the museums receiving IMLS MFA Grants can be found below: Institution: Adirondack Museum Award Amount: $156,573 Institution: Fort Ticonderoga Award Amount: $249,400 Institution: The Wild Center Award Amount: $24,321 ###
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, voted in support of H.R. 1635 – the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act. This bipartisan legislation seeks to promote an understanding of the cost and requirements of federal loans and Pell Grants through enhanced counseling for recipients of financial aid. Rep. Stefanik successfully included an amendment to this legislation that would provide all students with an explanation of how to seek additional assistance from the financial aid office should they experience a change of financial circumstance. “As the first member of my immediate family to graduate from college, I know how important higher education is to be able to succeed in a 21st century economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Students across our district and across our nation are weighed down by unsustainable levels of student debt. I have held almost 50 education visits and roundtables across our district, and when I speak with North Country college students, the costs of higher education continue to be their number one concern. One critical tool to addressing college affordability is financial literacy, and I am pleased to join my colleagues today to pass this important, bipartisan legislation.” Additionally, in May of 2017, Congresswoman Stefanik’s initiative to expand access to Pell grants was signed into law. H.R. 1635 - Empowering Students through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act H.R. 1635 promotes understanding of the cost and requirements of federal loans and Pell Grants through enhanced counseling for recipients of financial aid. H.R. 1635 improves the timing and frequency of loan counseling and ensures that counseling is tailored to circumstances specific to each borrower The bill requires that institutions provide borrowers with comprehensive information, before disbursement of each new loan, on the terms and responsibilities of loans either in person, online, or through the online counseling tool created by the bill This information must include recommendations for students to exhaust all other available assistance, information on proper budgeting for educational expenses, statements on existing and anticipated balances on the loans including projected repayment amounts, and notice that borrowers are not required to accept the full amount of the loan offered In addition, the bill requires borrowers to be provided with state specific information on average income and employment status of individuals based on the level of education achieved and an introduction to resources provided by the Financial Literacy and Education Commission The bill also requires exit counseling that includes the borrower’s outstanding loan balance, anticipated monthly payments under available repayment plans, information on the grace period preceding repayment, and the contact information of the borrower’s loan servicer Finally, H.R. 1635 requires the Secretary of Education to maintain a consumer-tested, online counseling tool that institutions can use to provide required counseling to their students. Rep. Stefanik’s amendment provides all students with an explanation of how to seek additional assistance from the financial aid office should they experience a change of financial circumstance. ###
09.04.2018	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that her office is hosting several FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Workshops in New York’s 21st Congressional District. The AFG Program was created to enhance the ability of first responders to protect the health and safety of the public from fire and related hazards. Any fire department, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Service (EMS) agency, or State Fire Training Academy can apply. “My offices are pleased to serve our North Country community, and one important way we can help is by assisting with the federal grants process,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Securing federal funding can be an arduous and complicated task, and these workshops will provide tools, additional information and guidance to help make our fire departments and EMS agencies as competitive as possible. In New York’s 21st district, we are grateful for our brave first responders and I am pleased that my office will be providing this valuable service.” Information about three AFG workshops Congresswoman Stefanik’s office is facilitating can be found below: Monday, September 10th Keeseville Volunteer Fire Department 8 Pleasant Street Keeseville, NY 12944 Time: 6:30pm – 8:30pm Tuesday, September 11th Flower Memorial Library (Watertown Public Library) 229 Washington Street Watertown, NY 13601 Time: 10am – 1pm Wednesday, September 12th Eagle-Matt Lee Fire Company No. 1 35 Washington Street Ballston Spa, NY 12020 Time: 10am – 1pm ###
08.29.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded $625,000 in White House Drug Policy Office Awards to organizations across the district. These grants will provide local community coalitions with funding to prevent youth substance abuse, including prescription drugs, marijuana, tobacco, and alcohol abuse. “This needed funding will help combat illicit drug use and make our communities healthier,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I applaud the White House for making this funding in our district a priority. I will continue to work in Congress to combat addiction and ensure that our communities have the resources they need in this fight.” Details of the grants are as follows: FY 2018 DFC Continuation Grantees in the 21st Congressional District of New York Application Number: 5 SP020538-05 Grantee Name: SEAWAY VALLEY COUNCIL FOR ALC/SUB ABUSE Grantee Congressional District: 21 Coalition Name: Massena Drug Free Community Coalition Grant Amount: 125000 Application Number: 5 SP020546-05 Grantee Name: ALCOHOL/SUBS ABUSE CNCL JEFFERSON CNTY Grantee Congressional District: 21 Coalition Name: Alliance for Better Communities Grant Amount: 125000 Application Number: 5 SP020814-04 Grantee Name: ALC & SUB ABUSE CNL HAMILTON/FULTON/MONT Grantee Congressional District: 21 Coalition Name: Four Rivers Alliance of Hamilton County Grant Amount: 125000 Application Number: 5 SP080044-02 Grantee Name: Mountain View Prevention Services, Inc. Grantee Congressional District: 21 Coalition Name: Youth Empowerment and Health! Community Coalition Grant Amount: 125000 Application Number: 5 SP080055-02 Grantee Name: Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe Grantee Congressional District: 21 Coalition Name: Akwesasne Coalition for Community Empowerment Grant Amount: 125000 ###
08.29.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) voted that U.S. producers were not injured by foreign newsprint imports, nullifying tariffs on Canadian paper imports: “This is tremendous news and I applaud the ITC for this important decision,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district is home to a thriving local press corps that would be unfairly burdened by these costs, harming local journalism and the families across our district that rely on these important organizations. I was pleased to lead the effort in Congress to push back against these tariffs and will continue to support our local press corps.” Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues wrote a letter in June to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and International Trade Commission (ITC) Chairman Rhonda Schmidtlein urging reconsideration of the tariffs on Canadian uncoated groundwood paper (UGW). Congresswoman Stefanik is also a cosponsor of the PRINT Act. ###
08.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Northern Border Caucus, released the following statement on the announced breakthrough between the U.S and Mexico on NAFTA: “This conceptual agreement with Mexico is an encouraging development as we work to renegotiate NAFTA,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “It is vital that we continue our efforts to reach a positive agreement with Canada as well, as our district’s economy relies on this critical relationship. In fact, since NAFTA took effect in 1994, New York has added 2.7 million new jobs. During my visits with businesses and families across our district, it is clear that uncertainty over NAFTA is already having real consequences for our region and these will only grow if a conceptual agreement with Canada is not reached soon.” ###
08.26.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement: “Senator John McCain was the embodiment of service and sacrifice above self. His indomitable spirit taught his fellow Americans to never waver in their commitment to our country. Today, we mourn the loss of a true giant. History will remember and honor John McCain. My thoughts and prayers — and those of the Nation — are with the McCain family at this very difficult time.” ###
08.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) became one of the first cosponsors of a bipartisan resolution introduced by Representatives Tom Reed and Kathleen Rice to prevent Members of the House of Representatives from serving on the boards of publicly held corporations, business entities, and financial institutions. “Public trust in Congress is close to an all-time low, and recent allegations against Members of Congress only further erode that trust,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Representatives come to Washington to serve constituents, not to enrich themselves. This measure ensures that public officials give their full commitment to the job their constituents elected them to do. In Congress, I will continue advocating for transparency and for policies that ensure Members of Congress live by the same rules as the citizens they serve.” The Reed-Rice resolution creates a House rule similar to an existing Senate rule, which states that no Senator “shall serve as an officer or member of the board of any publicly-held or publicly regulated corporation, financial institution, or business entity.” The House resolution strengthens the Senate rule by requiring newly-elected Members of Congress who serve on publicly traded boards to resign from their positions no matter how long they served prior to their election. The full text of the resolution is available here. ###
08.17.2018	Wilton, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted Saratoga County leaders for a roundtable focused on combating the heroin and opioid epidemic that is devastating communities across the North Country and the Nation. As a member of the bipartisan Heroin Task Force, Congresswoman Stefanik helped the House pass significant legislation, including the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act, which have both been signed into law. Recently, she helped the House pass the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act – legislation to better equip law enforcement and community leaders with new tools to combat opioid abuse. Since being sworn in, Congresswoman Stefanik has supported over $4 billion in funding to combat the opioid epidemic, and continues to work with colleagues on a legislative agenda to prevent addiction and promote recovery. “The opioid epidemic touches our communities, our homes, and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I thank the community leaders who participated in our productive roundtable discussion today, and I am grateful to the countless constituents who continue to share their own personal experiences with the opioid crisis. In our district, there are amazing organizations doing their part to combat this heinous epidemic, such as SPARCC – Substance Abuse Prevention and Recovery of Clinton County; Citizen Advocates; Hometowns vs. Heroin Addiction, and many others. Our communities are thankful for the work they do, and I am proud to be their partner in Congress. In addition to securing over $4 billion in funding to combat this epidemic, I have supported landmark legislation such as the 21st Century Cures Act, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), and the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. There is still much work ahead to stem the tide of the opioid crisis, and I will continue working with community leaders and listening to feedback from constituents as we work to pass legislation that saves lives." ###
08.16.2018	Essex County, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) toured the site of the former Willsboro Dam with representatives from the Lake Champlain Basin Program (LCBP) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). The LCBP provides funding that benefits Lake Champlain’s water quality, fisheries, wetlands, wildlife, recreation, and cultural resources. In 2015, with technical assistance and funding secured by the LCBP and USFWS, the Willsboro Dam was removed to eliminate hazards, mitigate flood risks, and protect fragile biodiversity. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Invasive Species Caucus, Congresswoman Stefanik crossed party lines to save the LCBP budget from elimination, and led the fight to almost double LCBP funding in the recent House-passed appropriations bill. “The Lake Champlain Basin Program is essential to protecting this North Country treasure from invasive species, protecting its biodiversity, and strengthening the local economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “With the assistance of the LCBP and USFWS, the Willsboro Dam was removed in 2015 – effectively reopening over 100 miles of the Boquet River Watershed to the Atlantic salmon and improved the river’s water quality and natural flood resilience. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Invasive Species Caucus, I was pleased to work on an amendment to ensure this program received the funding necessary to protect Lake Champlain. I am grateful to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for their commitment to protecting our ecosystem and for allowing me to witness their important work first-hand. I’ll keep working in Congress to ensure our North Country environment is protected for generations to come.” ###
08.13.2018	Jefferson County, NY – Today, President Donald Trump traveled to Fort Drum to sign into law the FY’19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). President Trump made this trip at the invitation of Rep. Stefanik. The NDAA, co-written by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), includes several provisions she authored. “I am honored that President Trump accepted my invitation and traveled to our district to sign into law the most important national security legislation that Congress writes,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “President Trump’s visit was an important opportunity to thank our brave men and women in uniform for their service as he signed into law the largest pay raise for our troops in nine years. “This bipartisan bill also strengthens our military readiness, which will help military installations around the country -- including Fort Drum. And as a Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am also pleased that this legislation includes several provisions to counter Russian aggression and to provide new sanctions on the Russian arms industry.” Stefanik Legislation to Address Military Spouse Unemployment Included “One of my key priorities for this must pass legislation was to add provisions from my bipartisan bill – the Military Spouse Employment Act of 2018 -- with Rep. Donald McEachin,” said Stefanik. “This aims to increase employment resources and expand job opportunities for military spouses, who frequently face challenges as a result of their spouses’ service. Military spouses serve too, and it’s critical that we work to ensure these brave men and women have the jobs they need and deserve.” Click here to read more about this legislation. Stefanik Wounded Warrior Combat Notification Included “Before today, Members of Congress were only notified about a combat injury to one of our constituents serving in the military if the individual is transferred to a hospital in the United States,” said Stefanik. “I was pleased that sections from my bipartisan bill – the Expanding Wounded in Action Notification Act – were signed into law today that require the Department of Defense to notify Members of Congress whenever a constituent serving in the armed forces is seriously wounded and hospitalized while on active duty. Many Members of our community are defending our freedoms around the world, and this legislation gives us a better chance to support their families in their time of need.” Read more about this bill here. Stefanik Initiative to Make U.S. Global Leader in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Included “As the Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, one of my key priorities is ensuring that the United States is the global leader in developing cutting edge AI technology,” added Stefanik. “The provision I included in the NDAA will establish a National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence to review advances in AI and identify our nation’s AI needs. AI is a critical element of the 21st Century Battlefield, and it is vital that the United States leads on this issue.” The language Rep. Stefanik included on AI better organizes the Department of Defense to oversee, accelerate, and integrate Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning across the defense enterprise. The language will establish an AI Commission, and conduct a thorough review of the wide-ranging military applications of this decisive technology. Stefanik Initiative to Counter Russian Propaganda Included During House floor debate, Congresswoman Stefanik successfully amended the legislation to include her bipartisan bill, the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018. This legislation demands greater transparency from foreign government owned media outlets in the United States by requiring outlets to disclose their ownership and government ties to the FCC and American people. “This legislation is a critical initiative as we work to counter information warfare from adversarial nations, including Russia,” said Stefanik. “We must ensure transparency and public disclosure from foreign media outlets so that the American public knows where this information originated. Stefanik Initiative to Improve Support for Military Families with Children with Special Needs Included “The families of our Servicemembers make huge sacrifices for our freedom, and it is a priority of mine to support them as much as possible. This provision will help improve the quality of education for a group that has been inadvertently disadvantaged for a long time.” added Stefanik. The language Rep. Stefanik included in the NDAA will establish common performance measures and outcome metrics to assess the quality of family support provided by the Exceptional Family Member Program. It also directs the Department of Defense to conduct a review and to report to the House Armed Services Committee on the feasibility of creating mandatory interstate compacts for schools supporting special needs children in military families. This will improve the continuity of learning for children of our Servicemembers, whose academic development does not follow the standard path of most school systems. NDAA Authorizes $10.9 Million for Kesselring Site The NDAA includes funding authorizations for five projects across Upstate New York, including a plant project at the Kenneth A. Kesselring Naval Nuclear Reactor Site. “This funding is critical to ensuring the Kesselring Site remains a top-flight installation in our district, and I will work through the appropriations process to ensure this funding is delivered,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Provision Continues Fight for East Coast Missile Defense The East Coast is home to our nation’s capital, the center of the world’s financial system, as well as several significant population centers,” added Stefanik. “As our enemies’ capabilities improve, it is reckless to leave the East Coast open to attack. I continue to be a strong advocate for an East Coast Missile Defense Site at Fort Drum and included language in this NDAA that supports looking at placing shorter range systems to defend the East Coast.” Stefanik Provision Increases Transparency at the Defense Health Agency Congresswoman Stefanik’s office recently helped Carthage hospital recover $6.8 million in reimbursement money owed to it by the federal government after a long dispute over reimbursement rates. “It’s inexcusable for a federal agency to deny a hospital funding that is rightly owed to them,” Stefanik said. The FY’19 NDAA will change the way DHA centralizes control of military healthcare. The language will prohibit the Secretary of Defense from closing or limiting services in any military medical treatment facility until a transition certification process is completed in order to protect and ensure access to care for our military families. NDAA Supports Advancements in Ceramic Capabilities from Businesses Like Alcoa The NDAA directs the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering to provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on dual-use ceramic capabilities. The briefing should include an overview of advances in ceramic production processes and technologies, the benefits ceramic capabilities provide, and any forecasted adoption of ceramic capabilities into current weapon systems. “Advancements in smelting like those done at Alcoa have significant overlap with ceramic production methods and could lower ceramic production costs for our military,” added Stefanik. “Advanced ceramics can enhance our ability to protect our troops and equipment, and this language incorporates an important business in our district into the National Defense discussion.” ###
08.09.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Paul Tonko (D-NY) and John Faso (R-NY) sent a bipartisan letter to Amtrak calling on the company to reconsider its decision to cancel the annual Marine Corps Toys for Tots train ahead of its 20th season. The company issued new guidelines for charter trains in March of this year and notified the Marine Corps last week that they plan to discontinue the Toys for Tots train as a result. The lawmakers wrote: Dear Mr. Richard Anderson, We are writing to express great concern that Amtrak is planning to end its support for the annual Toys for Tots Train. This is a beloved and endearing resource that many of our region’s neediest families rely on. Discontinuing this train service will mean approximately 40,000 children and their families will not benefit from donated gifts and much needed winter hats and gloves. We implore you to reconsider. We are aware that Amtrak has established a new policy for the operation of charter trains and believe it has every right to do so. However, ending this important holiday charter service will negatively affect the neediest in our communities and discontinue a positive charitable action that has brought great recognition to Amtrak’s reputation in the eyes of many. The benefit that the Toys for Tots charter brings to families in our region is immense. This program is about supporting our community and remembering people who are less fortunate during the holiday season. We ask you to consider the special circumstances involved here and act to preserve this unique and deeply valued Toys for Tots charter. This holiday season would mark the 20th year of this longstanding and generous service. We have been deeply moved by the spirit of community and love for our children that are expressed through this program and we sincerely hope that the tremendous good it does will not be lost this holiday season. Sincerely, Paul D. Tonko Elise Stefanik John Faso MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ###
08.09.2018	Malone, NY –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted Franklin County leaders for a roundtable focused on workforce development at the FEH-BOCES in Malone with Sylvie Nelson, the Executive Director of the North Country Workforce Development Board. “Since arriving in Congress, I’ve made over a hundred business and school visits across our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “And one of the most common issues business leaders tell me they struggle with is the ability to find skilled labor here in the North Country. “This lack of skilled labor harms their bottom line, as they can’t produce and compete to their potential. Working with feedback from these leaders, and from students across our district, including at our local BOCES programs, I co-wrote the first update to federal Career and Technical Education programs in over a decade. “This bipartisan bill – the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act – updates our CTE policies to empower state and local community leaders, align training with in-demand jobs, and increase transparency and accountability in our federal programs. I was pleased to see President Trump sign this important initiative into law last week. “Our district is home to a very diverse economy, with industries ranging from bus to train manufacturers, and from paper mills to aerospace engineering. As our world’s challenges become more complex, employers need workers who can think outside of the box and creatively attack problems. “This bipartisan Career and Technical Education bill is an example of leveraging input from stakeholders in our district to impact federal policy, and we delivered a real result that will benefit employers, students and our North Country economy. “I thank Sylvie and all of our attendees today for a productive discussion on ways we can continue to develop our North Country workforce.” Click here to read more about the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. ###
08.08.2018	Jefferson County, NY –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration’s (EDA) award of a $703,000 grant to the Jefferson County Industrial Development Agency of Watertown, New York: “This grant will create jobs in our district and I applaud the EDA for making it a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased my office was able to provide a letter of support for this important funding that will benefit the Watertown community, and I will continue to work to strengthen our North Country infrastructure.” ###
08.07.2018	Jefferson County, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “I am honored that President Trump has accepted my invitation to visit Fort Drum and the brave men and women of the 10th Mountain Division on Monday,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and the Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am honored that the President will sign the historic National Defense Authorization Act in our district at Fort Drum. I am proud of the partnership with this Administration to begin rebuilding our military and the President’s visit is an important opportunity to highlight this achievement and to thank our men and women in uniform for their service. I look forward to welcoming President Trump to Fort Drum and continuing to work to ensure our troops have the resources they need to keep us safe.” In March, Congresswoman Stefanik wrote a letter to President Trump inviting him to Fort Drum. ###
07.31.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act that she co-wrote with her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce was signed into law: “This is a big win for businesses and manufacturers in our district, and for students seeking the skills for the careers of tomorrow,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to help write this important legislation with the input I received from employers and students across the district, including at our local BOCES programs. “To compete in a 21st century economy, workers need the skills and experience necessary to secure high skilled jobs. This is especially important in the North Country, where we are home to industries ranging from bus to train manufacturers, and from paper mills to aerospace engineering. “I am pleased to help write this critical, bipartisan law to strengthen our workforce and strengthen our North Country economy. Furthermore, as the co-chair of the bipartisan STEAM caucus, I am pleased that my initiative to expand art and design training was included. As our world’s challenges become more complex, employers need workers who can think outside of the box and creatively attack problems.” This bipartisan legislation she developed with her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce updates federal career and technical education (CTE) policies to help more students gain the knowledge and skills they need to compete for in-demand jobs. It also includes an initiative championed by Congresswoman Stefanik to allow use of funding to support the addition of art and design skill training into CTE programs. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act will help more individuals gain the knowledge and skills they need to succeed by: Empowering State and Local Community Leaders Improving Alignment with In-Demand Jobs Increasing Transparency and Accountability Ensuring a Limited Federal Role ###
07.26.2018	Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her House colleagues passed reforms that address rising healthcare costs and increase access to quality care. “In addition to my work to fund community health centers, provide a 10-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and repeal the medical device tax, I was pleased to support these important reforms this week,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The bills I supported delay the Health Insurance Tax, which increases premiums by 3 percent; expand access to Health Savings Accounts; and lower costs on over the counter drugs. All of these bipartisan reforms will help families in our district better access their healthcare needs. I will continue to lead in Congress on building a 21st century healthcare system for the North Country.” The bills Rep. Stefanik helped pass this week include: H.R. 6199 – H.R. 6199 provides relief from the Affordable Care Act tax on over-the-counter medications and modernizes health savings accounts (HSAs) to meet health care needs of today. and H.R. 6311 – H.R. 6311 expands access and use of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), lowers premiums on health care plans, and delays the Health Insurance Tax until 2021. ###
07.26.2018	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a series of Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) grants for infrastructure projects around New York’s 21st Congressional District. “I am pleased to announce significant grants from the Northern Border Regional Commission that will go a long way toward improving our North Country infrastructure.” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Infrastructure is critical to creating jobs and increasing economic opportunity, and I applaud the NBRC for their announcement. In Congress, I will continue working to improve our local infrastructure and advocating for funding for the NBRC.” Details of today’s grants are as follows: Adirondack North Country Association (ANCA) (Multi-County, NY) • Amount of Award: $248,364 – Total Project: $373,130 • Project Description: The Adirondack North County Association has requested funds to establish a regional network of public, private and nonprofit partners in Clinton, Essex, Franklin, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lewis, St. Lawrence County to create the Adirondack North Country Center for Businesses in Transition. The Center will provide the soft infrastructure to supply matchmaking, resources and services for transferring ownership to help the more than ten thousand businesses in the North Country currently owned by Baby Boomers looking to retire over the next several years. The Center is hoping to reach over 4,800 businesses and retain approximately 1,440 jobs. Jefferson Community College, (Lewis County, NY) • Amount of Award: $250,000 – Total Project: $4,250,000 • Project Description: Jefferson Community College (JCC), in partnership with Lewis County will support workforce training through the creation of the Lewis County Education Center. Lewis County is constructing the 22,000-sq. ft. Lewis County Education Center on a 56 acres property. The Center will include six smart classrooms, a conference room, three office areas, and a fabrication lab. The workforce education provided by JCC will focus on advanced agriculture and value-added farming. Funding will assist with equipping the Center for advanced agriculture, entrepreneurship, and food safety courses. It is expected that 300 participants will receive training within the first four years of operation. Town of Inlet (Hamilton County, NY) • Amount of Award: $352,000 – Total Project: $448,400 • Project Description: The Town of inlet has requested funds to construct a communications tower eliminating portions of the Town, as well as nearby Towns of Raquette Lake, Eagle Bay, and Big Moose, that do not have cell service (including neighboring areas) and improving service quality for all local businesses, residents, and tourists. Without the ability to be connected, local businesses and workforce cannot compete effectively, and entrepreneurs are reluctant to invest in Inlet because of the inability to connect with their target audience, create a social media presence or build a following, and for the inability to offer these services to guests and patrons. Town of Crown Point (Essex County) • Amount of Award: $500,000 – Total Project: $4,829,509 • Project Description: The Town of Crown Point will relocate their Sewer District Number 1 collection and wastewater treatment system for Sewer District 1. The new facility will provide a system that is appropriately sized for current and future needs and will bring the Town’s facility into compliance with the existing permit and modified permit. State University of New York (SUNY) at Canton (St. Lawrence County, NY) • Amount of Request: $111,326 – Project Total: $312,500 • Project Description: SUNY Canton proposes to purchase and renovate the vacant former Jubilee Grocery Store in downtown Canton, NY and create an Entrepreneurship Accelerator, which will provide entrepreneurs from the campus and the broader community with resources, mentoring, and space to start their own businesses. ###
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led the House of Representatives to passing a full repeal of the 2.3 percent tax on medical device manufacturers that harms these important employers and raises costs on consumers. In October, Rep. Stefanik signed on to a letter urging action on this issue. This past December she teamed up with Rep. Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ) to call for a full repeal of this tax. Today, the House passed H.R. 184, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, legislation she cosponsored to fully repeal the tax. “This is an extremely important issue for our district, especially in Warren County, home of what is called ‘catheter valley’ because of the numerous catheter manufacturers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Affordable Care Act’s onerous medical device tax limits access to the healthcare devices that North Country families need and undermines the medical device industry that is so important to our local economy. Furthermore, repealing this legislation helps these important small businesses create jobs for North Country families and protect employees who are currently at risk from this job killing tax. I am pleased to deliver this important healthcare win for our district and will continue fighting to improve our North Country healthcare system.” Vince Forlenza, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, BD (which recently acquired C.R. Bard) in Warren County: “On behalf of our 750 employees in Glens Falls and 65,000 associates across the globe, I want to thank Congresswoman Elise Stefanik for her leadership in the fight to repeal the medical device tax. Congresswoman Stefanik understands the impact the medical device tax has on innovation and we appreciate her hard work that led to a strong bipartisan vote in the House.” Gabor J. Racz, President, Epimed International, Inc. in Fulton County: “As a medical device manufacturer with a long presence in Upstate New York, Epimed is greatly appreciative to our congressional representative, Elise Stefanik, in her effort to repeal the 2.3% Medical Device Excise Tax. The tax had a profoundly negative affect on Epimed's ability to invest in R&D and US Manufacturing operations. Congresswoman Stefanik has proven to be a wise and skillful advocate for the 21st District of NY. We look forward to her continued assistance in the region for creating jobs.” ###
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 3994, the ACCESS BROADBAND Act. This bipartisan legislation she cosponsored requires the Department of Commerce to establish the Office of Internet Connectivity and Growth. “I am pleased to work with Congressman Tonko to pass this bipartisan bill that will help improve access to broadband in rural districts like ours,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Increasing access to broadband in our district is critical to ensuring our businesses can compete, our economy can grow, and our children have access to the best educational resources. This is why just last week I introduced a bipartisan bill to increase access by providing tax credits to homeowners and businesses to cover the cost of building broadband infrastructure. I will continue to work at the federal level to ensure the North Country has access to this 21st century infrastructure.” Last week, Congresswoman Stefanik introduced the Broadband for All Act. The ACCESS BROADBAND Act requires the Department of Commerce to establish the Office of Internet Connectivity and Growth within the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. The office shall: connect with communities that need access to high-speed internet and improved digital inclusion efforts, hold regional workshops to share best practices and effective strategies for promoting broadband access and adoption, develop targeted broadband training and presentations for various demographic communities through media, develop and distribute publications providing guidance to communities for expanding broadband access and adoption, and track construction and use of any broadband infrastructure built using federal support. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Representatives Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) introduced the Broadband for All Act. The bill creates refundable tax credits for businesses and groups of people who team up to build the infrastructure that connects them to the country’s existing rural broadband service. “Increasing access to broadband in our district is critical to ensuring our businesses can compete, our economy can grow, and our children have access to the best educational resources,” said Stefanik. “I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan bill with Rep. Kilmer to ensure rural communities like ours can compete in a 21st century economy. This legislation builds off of my efforts to expand broadband by providing tax credits of up to 75 percent for homeowners and businesses to cover the cost of building this critical infrastructure. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.” “Too many rural communities are being left behind in our economy because America’s internet infrastructure doesn’t reach them,” Kilmer said. “Connecting communities to high-speed internet will create more economic opportunities for more people in more places. It will lead to new jobs and businesses, empower students by placing new information at their fingertips, and help rural communities get in on the economic growth we’re seeing that’s been largely concentrated in America’s cities.” The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) classifies broadband internet as an internet connection with a download speed of at least 25 megabits per second. For perspective, that is also the minimum speed recommendation for Ultra HD quality streaming on Netflix. According to the FCC, fewer than two thirds of Americans living in rural areas have access to broadband, while 97 percent of Americans in cities have access to at least the slowest version of broadband internet. According to Recode the average US household has an internet connection that is nearly three times faster than 25 mbps. The Broadband for All Act would create a new tax credit of up to 75 percent for groups of two or more homeowners or businesses to help cover the cost of building the infrastructure needed to get them online. The tax refund applies to any available technology, so each group can choose the best option that bridges the “last-mile” gap between their homes and businesses and the existing broadband service network. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Kathleen Rice (NY-04) and Elise Stefanik (NY-21) sent a bipartisan letter to President Trump today urging him to appoint an Election Security Coordinator within the Executive Office of the President (EOP) to oversee and organize all U.S. election security efforts across the federal government. There is no doubt that the Russian government executed a wide-spread campaign to interfere in the 2016 elections and undermine the American public’s faith in our democratic process. There is also overwhelming evidence that Russia is actively trying to interfere in the upcoming 2018 midterms. With these elections just four months away, we need to have a centralized approach to countering this threat. Currently, there are multiple federal agencies, task forces and commissions working to counter foreign interference and electronic hacking in our elections, but there is no formal government entity responsible for facilitating interagency coordination or ensuring government-wide information sharing and cooperation. The threat of continued election interference is urgent and real, and these agencies cannot do their jobs effectively if they are working in a silo. An Election Security Coordinator would consolidate our election security strategy and bring federal agencies together to combat all forms of election meddling in an organized and concerted manner. Their letter can be found here. ###
07.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored the bipartisan Secure America from Russian Interference Act of 2018. This package of legislation includes two bills coauthored by Rep. Stefanik, the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act and the Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act. “As a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Armed Services Committee, I continue to be a leader in Congress on countering Russian aggression,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In addition to the legislation I have authored and helped pass, I have supported $400 million in added funds to enhance election security. I am pleased to work across the aisle on this legislative package to bolster American Security and strengthen our NATO alliances.” Background: The Secure America from Russian Interference Act of 2018 Specific bills included in the Secure America from Russian Interference Act are: H.R. 463: Crimea Annexation Non-Recognition Act – Rep. Gerry Connolly (VA-11) & Rep. Steve Chabot (OH-01) Legislation to prohibit recognition of the Russian annexation of Crimea. H.R. 530: Safeguard Our Elections and Combat Unlawful Interference in Our Democracy (SECURE Our Democracy) Act – Rep. Eliot Engel (NY-16) and Rep. Gerry Connolly (VA-11) Legislation to impose sanctions on any country for election interference. H.R. 2145: No Russia Exemptions for Oil Production Act (No REX) Act – Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43) Legislation to prohibit the Department of Treasury from providing licenses for U.S. individuals to engage in joint energy activities that may produce oil in Russia or its jurisdiction. H.R. 2586: Report on Influence and Subversion by the Kremlin (RISK) Act – Rep. Salud Carbajal (CA-24) Legislation to require the State Department to submit to Congress an assessment of subversive activities by the Russian Federation. H.R. 2812: Enhance Partner Cyber Capabilities Act – Rep. Lou Correa (CA-46) Legislation to develop a strategy for the offensive use of cyber capabilities by federal agencies. H.R. 2820: Fight Russia Corruption Act – Rep. Tom Suozzi (NY-03) & Rep. Peter Roskam (IL-06) Legislation to require the establishment of the Office of Anti-Corruption within the State Department, and require the State Department to provide assistance to European countries combatting corruption. H.R. 2924: National Russian Threat Response Center – Rep. Joe Kennedy (MA-04) Legislation to establish a fusion center within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to integrate U.S. efforts against Russia. H.R. 4077: Honest Ads Act – Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06) & Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-06) Legislation to require disclosure for online political advertisements. H.R. 4348: Keeping Russian Entrapments Minimal and Limiting Intelligence Network (KREMLIN) Act – Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08) Legislation to require reporting on Kremlin political intentions. H.R. 5011: Election Security Act – Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-02) Legislation to require the designation of election infrastructure as critical infrastructure. H.R. 5216: Directing Implementation of Sanctions and Accountability for Russian Mischief (DISARM) Act – Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10) & Rep. Leonard Lance (NJ-07) Legislation to impose sanctions on senior political figures and oligarchs in the Russian Federation. H.R. 5354: Countering Foreign Propaganda Act – Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06) & Rep. Elise Stefanik (NY-21) Legislation to require enhanced reporting under FARA for U.S.-based foreign media. H.R. 5428: Stand with UK Against Russia Violation Act – Rep. Joaquin Castro (TX-20) & Rep. Mike Turner (OH-10) Legislation to sanction Russia for the poisoning of a Russian dissident. HR 5910: Defend Against Russian Disinformation and Aggression Act – Rep. Val Demings (FL-10) & Rep. Elise Stefanik (NY-21) Legislation to codify the State Department sanctions office; require reporting on Putin’s bank accounts; and authorize enhanced NATO cooperation. H.R. 6224: Protect European Energy Security Act – Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10) & Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) Legislation to require reporting on Russia’s efforts to subvert European energy independence and an assessment of the Nord Stream2 pipeline. H.R. 6423: Punishing Russia’s Continuing Occupation of Ukraine Act – Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09) Legislation to sanction Russian institutions with ties to the Kremlin in response to Putin’s ongoing attacks in Ukraine. H.R. 6426: Combating Putin’s Repression (CPR) for Russian Civil Society Act – Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) Legislation to authorize outreach to Russian people and expose Putin’s malign activities. ###
07.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her House colleagues passed H.R. 6147, the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act, 2019. “While not perfect, this important funding bill provides resources for programs that are critical to our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus, I am pleased this bill supports the arts and humanities. This bill also includes important environmental priorities of our district, including the amendment I authored with Rep. Welch to appropriate $8.4 million for the Lake Champlain Basin Program. This bill funds the Land Water Conservation Fund that supports wilderness, historical and Community Park projects across the North Country, as well as the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. “We also included important funding in this package to combat the opioid epidemic and prevent the flood of narcotics into our district, and this bill will help keep our nation safe by enforcing sanctions on terrorists and rogue states.” H.R. 6147 Includes: The Welch-Stefanik Lake Champlain Basin Amendment -- $8.4 Million $360 Million for the Land Water Conservation Fund $300 Million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative $155 Million for the National Endowment for the Arts $155 Million for the National Endowment for the Humanities $415 Million for the Office of National Drug Control Policy to combat the opioid epidemic, including $280 million for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) $161 Million for the Treasury Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to enforce sanctions on terrorists and rogue states Repeal of the WOTUS Rule ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Late last evening, the House of Representatives approved a bipartisan amendment authored by Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) to appropriate $8.4 million in fiscal year 2019 for the Lake Champlain Basin Program (LCBP). The House Appropriations Committee had recommended a funding level of just $4.4 million. “Lake Champlain is one of the natural wonders of New England and an international treasure, with a watershed that includes Vermont, New York, and the province of Quebec,” said Rep. Welch. “It is central to our cultural heritage and natural history, and an invaluable recreational and economic resource. These funds will help ensure that the Lake Champlain Basin Program continues its mission of protecting and preserving this great lake for generations to come.” "The Lake Champlain Basin Program is critical to protecting this North Country treasure from invasive species, to protecting its biodiversity, and to strengthening the local economy," said Rep. Stefanik. "In my lifetime, I have watched the detrimental effects that zebra mussels have had as they migrated into the waters of Lake Champlain. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Invasive Species Caucus, I was pleased to work on this amendment to ensure this program received the full funding necessary to protect Lake Champlain. I thank Congressman Welch for his leadership on this bipartisan effort." The Lake Champlain Basin Program was created in 1990 under the Lake Champlain Special Designation Act authored by Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and the late Senator James Jeffords (R-Vt.). The program is a regional collaboration between Vermont, New York, and the province of Quebec to restore and protect Lake Champlain and its surrounding watershed. LCBP provides technical resources and grants to private organizations, local communities, and individuals to support efforts that benefit Lake Champlain’s water quality, fisheries, wetlands, wildlife, recreation, and cultural resources. Text of the amendment can be found HERE. ###
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, and U.S. Representative Elise Stefanik (NY-21) today announced the reintroduction of the Invasive Fish and Wildlife Prevention Act, legislation to protect New York’s natural resources from the threat of invasive species. This legislation would give the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) greater authority to regulate nonnative species and prohibit them from being imported or sold in the United States. In the 114th Congress, Gillibrand introduced the Invasive Fish and Wildlife Prevention Act with late-U.S. Representative Louise Slaughter (NY-25). “Whether it’s Asian Carp in our lakes or the Emerald Ash Borer in our forests, invasive species threaten our environment and our economy, and we have to do everything we can to block them from coming into our state,” said Senator Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “The Invasive Fish and Wildlife Prevention Act would help better protect our precious natural resources, strengthen our economy, draw tourism to our state, and provide clean drinking water to New Yorkers. I urge my colleagues to address this problem and pass this bipartisan legislation.” “As the Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Invasive Species Caucus, I am pleased to join Senator Gillibrand in introducing this bicameral bill to protect our North Country environment,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Combating invasive species helps keep our natural habitats healthy for future generations to enjoy, and also ensures that these environmental treasures continue to attract tourism, sportsmen, and commerce to our region. This important bill will give the Fish and Wildlife Service needed flexibility to regulate and combat invasive pests that threaten our region, and I urge my colleagues in the House to support it.” The Invasive Fish and Wildlife Prevention Act would give the USFWS greater authority to regulate nonnative species and prohibit them from being imported or sold in the United States. The USFWS regulates species considered to be harmful to the wildlife and natural resources of the United States. These species, referred to as “injurious wildlife,” cannot be imported into the United States or its territories, or be transported through interstate commerce, without a USFWS permit. More than 200 species are listed as “injurious wildlife.” Under the current system, the “injurious wildlife” designation happens after a species has already been introduced to the United States and is causing harm to our environment and economy. This legislation would address the threat of potentially invasive species before they can be imported into the United States or enter into interstate commerce by establishing a new injurious species listing process that is based on the scientific risk analysis. The legislation would also provide the USFWS with the temporary authority to make emergency designations for wildlife that pose an imminent threat. Invasive species pose a serious threat to New York’s natural resources. Asian Carp threaten the wellbeing of the Great Lakes ecosystems, which provide drinking water to over 30 million Americans, support a $7 billion fishing industry and a $15.5 billion boating industry, and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. The Emerald Ash Borer beetle has spread to 31 states and decimated hundreds of millions of Ash trees across North America, and will devastate New York’s ecology and forest industries if action is not taken. ###
07.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 50 – the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act, legislation to improve the regulatory process by closing loopholes found in existing law and better account for the true costs imposed by federal regulations. “Too often the federal government imposes harmful costs on our local governments,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our vast district is home to hundreds of municipalities that know how burdensome these unfunded mandates can be. This legislation requires federal agencies to seek input from states and localities in the federal regulatory and rulemaking process. It also brings increased transparency about the true costs of the unfunded mandates that get passed down from the federal government.” ###
07.12.2018	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that Vapor Stone Rail Systems, a division of Wabtec Corporation, is expanding its operation in Plattsburgh: “This is tremendous news for our Plattsburgh region and means new, well-paying jobs for families in our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Wabtec is a global leader in innovative passenger transit and I have had the pleasure of visiting their facility and meeting with their team. This expansion of Vapor Stone Rail will make our area an even stronger manufacturing hub. I will continue to work at the federal level to ensure our North Country businesses and manufacturers have the support they need in Congress.” ###
07.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “It is time for new leadership at the EPA,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “There have been too many ethical lapses under Administrator Pruitt’s watch and this decision is in the best interests of the agency and our country. I look forward to working with our next EPA Administrator to protect the environmental interests of our district, which is the proud home of the Adirondacks.” Congresswoman Stefanik was one of the first Republicans to publicly call on Administrator Pruitt to resign in April of this year. ###
06.29.2018	Queensbury, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) toured West Mountain Health Services of Hudson Headwaters Health Network in Queensbury. After the tour, she was presented with the Distinguished Community Health Center Champion Award by the Community Health Center Association of New York State (CHCANYS) for her leadership funding Community Health Centers. “I thank Dr. John Rugge for inviting me today and Rose Duhan of CHCANYS for this prestigious award,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Since arriving in Congress, I’ve met with Dr. Rugge numerous times here in Queensbury and in my Washington office to discuss the challenges facing Community Health Centers. I’ve also visited Hudson’s Warrensburg Center and attended their annual dinner in August of 2015. “Our district is home to 3 Federally Qualified Health Center organizations – Hudson Headwaters Health Network, North Country Family Health Center, and the Community Health Center of the North Country -- with a total of 35 care delivery sites that serve over 95,000 patients. That’s why I was proud to lead the legislative effort to secure $7.8 billion in CHC funding nationwide. “This Congress, I authored the bipartisan CHIME Act that has 219 cosponsors, a majority of the House. From there I led the effort to encourage House Leadership and House Committees to take up the bill. Working with a coalition of advocates, we ultimately were successful in including a 2-year extension in the FY18 government funding bill that was signed into law in March. “I will continue to advocate on behalf of these critical health centers for our district, and I am pleased to announce that I will be serving as the Co-Chair of the Community Health Centers Caucus alongside Reps. Kay Granger (R-TX), Mike Capuano (D-MA), and Danny Davis (D-IL).” Background: Issue Background: The Community Health Center Fund provides 70% of grant funding to the health center program and makes up on average, 20% of operation at the organization level. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) projected that the national impact of the loss of funding (the “funding cliff”) would have closes 2,800 health center locations, eliminate more than 50,000 jobs, and result in loss of access to care for more than 9 million patients. Health centers serve 27 million people – that’s 1 in 12 Americans. CHCs provide access to high-quality primary and preventive care, while integrating behavioral health, dental, substance abuse and other critical services for their patients. Health Centers are a cost-effective provider of care, having been proven to save 24% in total Medicaid spending when compared to other providers. Total funding for the Health Centers program currently stands at $5.1 billion annually. Of this total, $3.6 billion comes from the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF), a dedicated source of funding that was extended for two years in 2015. In New York’s 21st District, Community Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters Health Network, North Country Family Health Center, and the Community Health Center of the North Country serve over 95,000 patients. Congresswoman Stefanik successfully led the effort to secure CHCF funding for 2 years. ###
06.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math) Caucus, announced the 2018 NY-21 Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is open to all K-12 students in New York’s 21st Congressional District. “In my visits with STEAM programs across our district, I’ve witnessed first-hand the incredible creativity of the North Country’s talented young app designers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Congressional App Challenge is a unique opportunity for students to showcase their expertise through next-generation mediums. The winner of this competition will have their app displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year where it will be seen by visitors and dignitaries from around the world. I look forward to seeing what our gifted students can create!” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students regardless of coding experience and provides an opportunity for young people interested in computer science to design, create, and showcase an original app while giving them the chance to learn valuable technical skills. Students can participate as individuals or as teams of up to four. Entries are being accepted now through October 15th, 2018. Submissions will be judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. For more rules and information visit www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us. ###
06.28.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 6031, the PRINT Act. The PRINT Act would suspend new tariffs currently being imposed on imported uncoated groundwood paper from Canada, which is the primary source of newsprint and other paper used by domestic newspapers, book publishers and commercial printers. Simultaneously, the legislation would require the Department of Commerce to review the economic health of the printing and publishing industries. “Our district is home to a thriving local press corps that would be unfairly burdened by the costs of tariffs on Canadian paper,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Local news is a critical part of our North Country community and I am pleased to support this legislation that will help keep our local papers competitive.” Recently, Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues also sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and International Trade Commission (ITC) Chairman Rhonda Schmidtlein urging reconsideration of the tariffs on Canadian uncoated groundwood paper. ###
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was selected by Speaker Paul Ryan to serve on the bipartisan, bicameral House-Senate conference committee charged with resolving differences over the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This is her fourth consecutive year being chosen for this assignment. “I thank Speaker Ryan for this important selection that will ensure that our district has a seat at the table as we finalize this critical national security bill,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I look forward to working on behalf of our district, the Fort Drum community, and all of our brave men and women in uniform to ensure our interests are protected and that our military has the resources they need to keep us safe.” ###
06.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued a statement following the House immigration vote. Congresswoman Stefanik voted in support of this compromise legislation today to address DACA, border security and the separation of families at our border. She is very disappointed that the vote failed because a small group of Republicans partnered with Democrats to take down the bill. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik was one of the earliest signers of the discharge petition to force Congress to act on immigration. She will continue to work with her colleagues to lead the effort to fix our broken immigration system. "The House should move to immediately pass standalone legislation that would end the separation of families at the border, as well as reunite children who have already been separated,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. Congresswoman Stefanik is a cosponsor of the Family Reunification Act -- legislation to reunite children who were separated from their parents along the southern border. ###
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. –The House of Representatives has passed the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act – legislation Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored that expands benefits for Vietnam Blue Water Navy veterans who are currently suffering from diseases they developed as a result of their service. “Our district is home to more veterans than any district in New York State, and our offices know firsthand the frustrations that the Blue Water vets are facing trying to get the benefits they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21). “Our brave veterans served heroically and we should never leave them behind. I am pleased that House Leadership has heard our call to pass this critical veterans bill to ensure our Blue Water Navy Vietnam veterans receive the benefits they have earned. I thank Susie Belanger from my district for her tireless advocacy on this issue, and I urge the Senate to swiftly follow suit and send this to the President’s desk.” “Thank you Rep. Stefanik for supporting H.R. 299,” said Susie Belanger, Blue Water Navy Association. “Passage of this bill will affect many constituents of mine as well as veterans across the United States. When these honorable veterans took an oath to defend this nation at all costs -- including their lives -- our country made a promise to care for them when they returned. This bill makes our Congress accountable in keeping that promise. The Vietnam veterans have always fought for agent Orange and PTSD, paving the way for future warriors so they do not have to fight decades for their earned and deserved benefits. God bless them for not only standing up for themselves but all veterans.” Background: During the Vietnam War, more than 20 million gallons of the herbicide “Agent Orange” were sprayed to remove jungle foliage. A toxic chemical in the herbicide has since been linked to devastating health effects, including non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (NHL), various cancers, Type II Diabetes, and Parkinson’s disease. The Agent Orange Act of 1991 (AOA) empowered the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to declare certain illnesses “presumptive” to exposure to Agent Orange and enabled veterans to receive disability compensation for these related conditions. However, in 2002, the VA stopped giving benefits to blue water veterans and limited the scope of the AOA to only those veterans who could provide proof of “boots on the ground” in Vietnam. As a result, veterans who served in the waters off of the Vietnamese coast or in bays and harbors were required to file individual claims to restore their benefits, which have then been decided on a case-by-case basis. Key Provisions: Restores the presumptive coverage for those who served in the territorial seas of Vietnam that existed prior to 2002 and lifts the burden from the individual veteran to prove direct exposure to Agent Orange. Reduces backlogged VA claims for veterans who are suffering from diseases the U.S. government has linked to Agent Orange, therefore reducing the overall VA backlog. Extends a presumption of Agent Orange exposure for veterans who served in or near the Korean Demilitarized Zone from Sept. 1, 1967, through Aug. 31, 1971. Authorizes the VA to provide health care, vocational training, and a monetary allowance to veterans’ children born with spina bifida, if the veterans served in Thailand from Jan. 9, 1962, through May 7, 1975, and were exposed to Agent Orange. Requires the VA to report to Congress within 180 days of enactment on the latest findings of a follow-up study on symptoms affecting Gulf War veterans. H.R. 299 is endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States (VFW), the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN), Military-Veterans Advocacy, Inc., the Fleet Reserve Association, the Blue Water Navy Association, and the Vietnam Veterans Association. More information about H.R. 299 including a summary of the legislation and bill text can be found here. ###
06.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored the Family Reunification Act, legislation to reunite children who were separated from their parents along the southern border. “A critical component of our immigration policy must be keeping families united,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As we work to pass immigration reform that strengthens our border and addresses DACA, I am pleased to join in support of this important legislation to reunite children that were recently separated from their parents.” This legislation requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to reunite unaccompanied alien children with the parents or legal guardians with whom they entered the United States. Click here for bill text. ###
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act – a comprehensive, bipartisan bill to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. This package includes dozens of House passed measures and includes several Medicaid, Medicare, and public health reforms to help combat the opioid crisis. “I thank my colleagues for their important work to advance this critical package through the House,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Communities in my district continue to struggle under the weight of this devastating epidemic, and this comprehensive package delivers important support to prevent addiction, encourage treatment and recovery, as well as initiatives that will keep our communities safe. “The opioid epidemic touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives. I will continue to work in Congress to ensure the North Country has the resources we need.” Congresswoman Stefanik has previously worked to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, the 21st Century Cures Act, and supported almost $4 billion in omnibus funding to aid this effort. Click here for reaction from local officials to this package of opioid legislation. A breakdown of this comprehensive package is attached. ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the 2018 House Farm Bill. “Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Since arriving in Congress, I have made dozens of agriculture stops across our district, hosting agriculture roundtables, touring farms, visiting Ag businesses, and meeting with our farmers and their families at County Fairs each summer. I am pleased this Farm Bill delivers important wins for our farmers. Critically, it provides needed support for our dairy farmers who are facing a crisis right now. It also authorizes over $500 million in loan and grant programs to expand access to rural broadband – a key economic priority for our region. This legislation includes important environmental and conservation provisions, and I am pleased that two of my amendments were adopted unanimously to combat invasive species, such as the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid. This Farm Bill supports our specialty crops and young farmers as well. It also includes needed reforms to the SNAP program to ensure that this important safety net provides a path out of poverty for the families it benefits.” “I will continue working in Congress on behalf of our North Country farmers and look forward to seeing the Farm Bill move through the Senate and be signed into law.” During floor debate, Congresswoman Stefanik – Co-Chair of the Invasive Species Caucus -- had two amendments adopted unanimously to combat invasive species. Congresswoman Stefanik also wrote on Medium in more detail about the important wins for our district. ###
06.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after President Trump issued an executive order to stop the separation of families at our border: “I am pleased that President Trump signed an Executive Order that takes important steps to stop family separations at our border, but ultimately this issue and many others need to be resolved through the legislative process,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “For too long, both parties have kicked the can on immigration reform and it’s time for Congress to finally act.” Congresswoman Stefanik has previously announced her intention to support the compromise immigration bill that could be voted on this week and would address family separation, DACA and border security. She will also support standalone legislation that addresses the separation of children and parents at our borders. ###
06.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced her support for the compromise immigration bill that would address DACA, border security and stop children from being separated from their parents at the border. This legislation could be voted on as soon as this week in the House. "The situation of separated minors at our border is an appalling result of our country's broken immigration system," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "For too long Congress and both parties have kicked the can on substantive immigration reform. I am pleased to help lead the effort to bring Congressional action by crossing party lines signing the discharge petition that forced Congress to finally act on immigration. "This compromise legislation will solve some of the immediate and pressing issues that our immigration system faces. This package would address immigrants who were protected under DACA, provide needed funding for border security, and end the separation of families at our border. "I will support this compromise legislation and continue working to reform our immigration system." Congresswoman Stefanik was one of the earliest signers of the discharge petition to force Congress to act on immigration. She previously announced that she will also support standalone legislation that addresses the separation of children and parents at our borders. ###
06.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Grants for the Massena Drug Free Community Coalition and the Alliance for Better Communities: “I thank HHS for making this mental health and substance abuse funding a priority in our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Alliance for Better Communities and the Massena Drug Free Community Coalition are on the front lines of these mental health and substance abuse issues, doing tremendous work to help treat those who are suffering. I will continue to work in Congress on solutions to these issues that affect too many in our community.” These grants were made available by the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which Congresswoman Stefanik worked to pass during her first term in office. Grant details: Alliance for Better Communities Massena Drug Free Community Coalition ###
06.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that the House Appropriations Committee included an increase in funding for the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) to $750 million in the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee Appropriations bill. Read Congresswoman Stefanik’s letter to the Committee calling for this increase here. “I thank Chairman Cole and my colleagues on the Committee for agreeing to this important request to help Community Action Agencies across our district continue their critical work,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These agencies work to tackle issues ranging from poverty to combating the heroin and opioid epidemic and we must prioritize their funding. I will continue working throughout the appropriations process to ensure this funding is passed and signed into law.” Bruce Garcia, CEO, Joint Council for Economic Opportunity of Clinton and Franklin Counties, Inc. “JCEO”: “On behalf of JCEO, I want to thank Congresswoman Stefanik for her efforts to increase funding to Community Action Agencies. JCEO, as the community action agency serving both Clinton and Franklin counties, will be able to use the funds to better stock our food pantries, to assist low-income working families through emergency situations and help keep Senior citizens in their homes.” Alan Jones, Executive Director and CEO, Adirondack Community Action Programs, Inc. “ACAP”: "Community Service Block Grant (CSBG) funding provides core services for our most vulnerable and does so in a way that removes barriers and promotes self-sufficiency. Our program coordinates with all other service providers so as not to duplicate services. This funding is imperative to our local community, as it has the flexibility to meet ever changing needs and allows us to meet those emerging needs in a timely cost/benefit manner. Emergency services are at the core of the work and includes, but is not limited to: income qualified (eviction prevention; utility shut offs; lack of heat; food shelves; etc.) In addition, wrap around services are provided to promote independence and reduce the need for reoccurring support." Felicia Dumas, Executive Director, St. Lawrence County Community Development Program: "The continuation and increase of the Community Services Block Grant funding is integral to our North Country communities. At St. Lawrence County Community Development Program (CDP) we utilize that funding to support neighborhood centers in Massena, Ogdensburg, Gouverneur, Canton, Potsdam, South Colton, Parishville, and Pierrepont. These centers assist members of their communities and surrounding towns with food, emergency assistance, and family development. Our Center Directors work on goal setting with participants, often to include employment or educational goals. They provide job training to volunteers and community members who work at the centers. Our Neighborhood Centers also partner with other agencies to provide budgeting and nutrition workshops. In Ogdensburg, the Center Director has partnered with American Red Cross to install smoke alarms for community members. Our Neighborhood Centers would not be able to provide these necessary services without CSBG funding and the support of our local communities." ###
06.15.2018	Washington, D.C. -- This week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues in the House passed dozens of bills to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic facing the North Country and communities around the country. Click here to watch Congresswoman Stefanik speak on the House floor in support of these efforts. Kristyna Mills, Jefferson County District Attorney: “The best approach to address the opioid epidemic currently gripping this country is three-pronged: educational efforts for prevention, treatment and increased law enforcement to punish those that prey on our addicted population. This bill package attacks all three prongs and I applaud the Congresswoman for her leadership role and her support of this important legislation.” Franklin County Sheriff Kevin Mulverhill: “I applaud Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership on this issue. The bills coming before Congress address many of the needs associated with this crisis including: alternative pain management, education and prevention of addiction along with treatment and recovery for those that have become addicted. There is no single silver bullet that will bring this crisis to an end but the tools being supplied by the proposed legislation will go a long way in slowing down this epidemic “ Ashley Livingston, in recovery and Co-Chair, Friends of Recovery Warren and Washington: “I support and am very pleased with the House Opioid Package. The multifaceted approach Congress is taking with this package of bills is what is needed to combat the current pandemic we're in. It addresses prevention and treatment of substance use disorders, recovery supports, child welfare, veterans, and law enforcement; along with including bills specifically for research to be done on substance use disorders so that we are using the most current and best practices to prevent and treat SUD's, as well as the best practices for the continuum of care. I am especially happy to see H.R. 5261, which will increase education for health professionals on substance use disorders -- this has been and continues to be a big need. This package is an amazing follow up to C.A.R.A. There is still a lot more that needs to be done but this is a step in the right direction. I am pleased to see the House understands this urgency as evidenced by the creative, bipartisan proposals currently under consideration, and I thank members in both parties for treating addiction like the disease that it is and for working so hard so that fewer lives are lost to substance use disorder.” Stephen Jennings, Chairman, Jefferson County Alliance for Better Communities: “Passage of federal legislation to address the opioid crisis in our country and in our district, is crucial to stopping the expensive and emotional cycle of opioid addiction, overdoses and overdose deaths that so many of our citizens and families are grappling with. Congresswoman Stefanik understands how complex an issue the opioid crisis is, and as a member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, has cosponsored and supported successful legislation that addresses this challenging issue on multiple fronts. Increased prevention and public awareness efforts, particularly regarding the growth and types of synthetic drugs, will educate parents and providers on the associated health effects. Loan repayment for individuals who agree to work as substance use disorder treatment professionals in areas of the nation most in need, particularly rural areas like the North Country, will increase crucially needed treatment capacities. Ensuring quality access to sober living so that individuals can successfully maintain achieved sobriety and transition to healthy life will greatly reduce relapse and increase productive independence. These pieces of legislation, combined with many other proposals put forth by the Task Force members, are absolutely critical in supporting our work at the grassroots level to control this epidemic in homes and schools, in churches and workplaces, in health care settings, and on our streets.” Linda Beers and Kathy Sprague – ECHO Co-Chairs: “ECHO has, for the past three years, identified and pursued strategies and implementation in the areas of prevention, prevention treatment, and recovery through a community based partnership and mobilization. Together we applaud the efforts of comprehensively strengthening the framework to address the complex nature of this crisis, and support legislation that commits resources to ending the opioid epidemic." Anita Seefried-Brown, Project Director, Alliance for Better Communities: “The Alliance for Better Communities welcomes Congresswoman Stefanik’s support of passing a comprehensive packet of bills designed to improve the lives of people suffering from opioid addictions. Funding these bills will positively impact research and development of medical advances to more effectively identify, treat, and support people with opioid addictions, strengthening the continuum from prevention to recovery; supporting family members of addicted loved ones, the economy, and the health and safety of affected communities; and reducing stigma which often prevents people with addiction and their family members from seeking help. “The Mortality in the United States, 2016 NCHS Data Brief No. 293, issued in December 2017, estimated that in 2016 the prevailing epidemic resulted in 116 deaths daily as a result of opioid-related overdoses. A report issued by the Council of Economic Advisers in November 2017 estimated the 2015 economic impact of the opioid crisis as $504 billion: $72.3 billion for substance abuse treatment, criminal justice, and reduced productivity and $431.7 billion in fatality costs. “Again, we applaud Congresswoman Stefanik’s efforts in helping create compassionate communities responsive to the needs of people with addictions as well as their friends and family members, thus positively impacting the entire community.” ###
06.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor on the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic as Congress continues consideration of dozens of bills to prevent addiction, encourage treatment and recovery, and improve law enforcement. Click here for video of her remarks; a transcript is below. Mr. Speaker, my district and communities across our nation are being ravaged by the heroin and opioid epidemic. This crisis touches our homes, our friends and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives. Over the last fifteen years, heroin related deaths have quadrupled across our country. And in 2016, over 3,600 New Yorkers died of an opioid overdose, with fatalities in some counties in my district doubling and tripling. This is why since arriving in Congress, I’ve worked with my colleagues on the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, the 21st Century Cures Act, and to provide over $4 billion in funding to fight this epidemic. But we must continue to attack this epidemic head on, which is why we are passing a package of bills this week to prevent addiction, encourage treatment and recovery, and improve law enforcement to keep our communities safe. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to continue this incredibly important bipartisan work so that the families we represent can get the relief they need. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
06.14.2018	Congressmembers Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Faso (NY-19), John Katko (NY-24) and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) led a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and International Trade Commission (ITC) Chairman Rhonda Schmidtlein urging reconsideration of the tariffs on Canadian uncoated groundwood paper (UGW), used as newsprint, which will have a severe impact on local newspapers. Members sent the bipartisan letter to voice their concerns about the tariffs, imposed in January and increased in March, which reach as high as 32 percent. In the letter, the Representatives state: “Over the past decade, there has been an industry wide shift toward digital media from newsprint. The petitioner’s claim that the decline in demand for US newsprint is a result of imported Canadian newsprint rings hollow in light of the reality of an industry trying to adapt to a changing market in a digital age. As an industry that is already confronting a decline in newspaper circulation, readership and print advertising due to increased internet competition an affirmative final determination from the International Trade Commission has the potential to destabilize the industry and accelerate the decline of print news media.” The letter goes on to express concern about the effects tariffs will have on smaller local and regional publications that may not have the scale to weather tariffs of this kind. Local journalism is integral in keeping citizens engaged in their communities and is sometimes one of the only ways to access information about local government, economy, and community activities. Stop Tariffs on Printers & Publishers, a group consisting of American printers, publishers, paper suppliers and distributors, representing over 600,000 American workers, is also calling attention to the negative impact the tariffs will have on their 66 member organizations. Currently, the tariffs are not permanent, and the ITC’s investigation is ongoing, with final determinations expected to be made later this year. Read the full text of the letter here. -30-
06.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has been awarded the 2018 Conservation Hero Award by the National Audubon Society for her leadership on climate change, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the Land Water Conservation Fund, and for being a champion for birds and the places they live. “I am honored to receive this prestigious award from the Audubon Society,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Audubon Society does tremendous work to preserve our natural ecosystems so that birds and wildlife can thrive. As the proud representative of the Adirondacks in Congress, I will continue to partner with the Audubon Society to ensure future generations can enjoy our rich natural treasures.” ###
06.13.2018	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R.5891 – the Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act. This legislation passed the House today as part of a series of dozens of measures the House is working on to combat the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic. “Since arriving in Congress, I have worked closely with my colleagues on many measures to improve the federal response to the heroin and opioid epidemic,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In addition to supporting over $4 billion in funding to combat this problem, I have supported the 21st Century Cures Act and the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. This bipartisan bill that I cosponsored will create a task force that helps our federal agencies better coordinate our efforts to fight this problem. I thank my colleagues for their work to advance these important healthcare bills.” H.R. 5891 establishes an interagency task force to develop a strategy on how federal agencies can implement a coordinated approach to responding to the opioid epidemic, with a particular focus on the existing programs that support infants, children, and their families. The task force will be led by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and will include the Departments of Education, Agriculture, and Labor. Additionally, the task force will solicit input from local entities and individuals on the frontlines in order to inform the aforementioned strategy. The task force will also recommend opportunities for local- and state-level partnerships, professional development, and best practices, and consider evidence-based initiatives related to prevention, whole-family and multi-generational approaches, and community-based projects. A detailed action plan will be provided to Congress on how the agencies plan to implement their strategy and will include an identification of any recommendations that require legislative authority to implement. Read more about the bills the House is passing related to opioids here. ###
06.12.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues in the House will be advancing dozens of bills over the coming weeks to address the heroin and opioid crisis. Congresswoman Stefanik is a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force. In her first term in office, Congresswoman Stefanik worked to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, the 21st Century Cures Act, and supported almost $4 billion in omnibus funding to aid this effort. “I am committed to finding solutions to this ongoing fight that is wreaking havoc in communities across our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The opioid epidemic touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives. “The legislation we will be passing in the House will provide resources to prevent addiction, encourage treatment and recovery, as well as initiatives that will keep our communities safe. I look forward to working across the aisle with my colleagues on these critical bills.” Among the bills being considered this week are: Jessie's Law (H.R. 5009) would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient's prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed decisions for care and treatment. Better Pain Management Through Better Data Act (H.R. 5473) would help doctors and medical professionals reduce the use of opioids through better clinical data on non-opioid alternatives so there are more prescribing options instead of opioids. Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act (H.R. 5685) will direct the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to provide education resources for beneficiaries regarding opioid use, pain management, and alternative pain management treatments, and include these resources in the “Medicare and You” Handbook. For a comprehensive list of opioid related bills being considered in the House this week, click here. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Gwen S. Moore (D-WI), and Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE) this week introduced a bill to reauthorize services and support for victims of domestic violence. H.R. 6014, the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act of 2018, is the primary source of federal funding to support emergency shelter and related assistance for victims of domestic violence and their families. Since it was enacted in 1984, FVPSA has addressed domestic violence through community-driven solutions and a network of programs and services dedicated to responding to domestic violence across the country. “As strong advocates for victim assistance, victims’ rights and safeguarding all Americans from domestic violence, we are proud to introduce this legislation to reauthorize these life-saving services,” Reps. Stefanik, Thompson, Moore, and Blunt Rochester said. “Domestic violence has no place in American society, and this legislation is essential to ensuring we are not only standing up for victims of domestic violence, but we are also doing everything in our power to stand against it. We urge all of our colleagues to support this bill.” Today’s bill would reauthorize the program at current levels for Fiscal Years 2019 through 2023. FVPSA is overseen by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Family and Youth Services Bureau, which allocates FVPSA formula grants to states, territories and tribes, state domestic violence coalitions, and national and special-issue resource centers, according to HHS. “A lack of shelter funding should never jeopardize survivors in need of safety and support,” said Kim Gandy, President and CEO of the National Network to End Domestic Violence. “Passage of the bipartisan Family Violence Prevention Services Reauthorization Act (FVPSA) would ensure that 1.3 million victims and their children have access to life-saving services every year. The National Network to End Domestic Violence strongly supports this legislation. We applaud Reps. Thompson, Moore, Stefanik and Blunt Rochester for their leadership and commitment to standing with survivors.” "In 2017, The National Domestic Violence Hotline (The Hotline) and it’s program loveisrespect.org answered nearly 330,000 calls, texts, and chats from survivors of domestic violence and dating abuse who reached out for crisis intervention, safety planning and resources because of funding received through the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act,” said Katie Ray-Jones, CEO of The Hotline. "In addition to funding The Hotline, FVPSA funding allows us to collaborate with partners such as the National Women's Indigenous Resource Center (NIWRC) to create the StrongHearts Native Helpline, providing culturally appropriate support services to Native women. Without FVPSA, these critical services would not exist. The Hotline expresses its gratitude to Reps. Thompson, Moore, Stefanik, and Blunt-Rochester for their continued commitment to survivors of domestic violence." Critical support services funded under FVPSA include: - Coordinating statewide improvements within local communities, social service systems, and programming regarding the prevention and intervention of domestic violence through the leadership of State Domestic Violence Coalitions and FVPSA State Administrators. - Supporting the National Domestic Violence Hotline, which provides crisis intervention, counseling, and safety planning and can directly connect calls to a seamless referral system of more than 4,500 community programs across the U.S. The Hotline operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and is available in 170 languages. - Increasing public awareness about the prevalence of domestic violence, dating violence, and family violence. - Supporting local and community-based domestic violence programs with specialized technical assistance addressing emerging issues such as trauma-informed care, the co-occurrence of domestic violence and child maltreatment, culturally-specific domestic violence services, and effective interventions for children exposed to domestic violence. ###
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor in honor of Major General Jeffrey Bannister, who passed away recently. Click here for video of her remarks; a transcript is below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor an exceptional patriot and military leader, Major General Jeffrey Bannister, who recently passed away. General Bannister served as the 10th Mountain Division Commander and Senior Commander at Fort Drum in my district. I am proud to have gotten to know General Bannister and his family during my first term in office, when we worked closely together to successfully prevent devastating personnel cuts from taking place at Fort Drum. Whenever I visited Fort Drum, Major General Bannister was always a wonderful host. It was clear he commanded the greatest respect from the men and women stationed on post, and I know his greatest interest was their well-being. I remember running into Jeff with his family at the Cream Cheese Festival in Lowville after he returned from a recent deployment. He was casually wearing his baseball cap and eating at a picnic table with his wife and they both gave me a warm hug. He was truly dedicated to our country and our community. The hearts of our entire Fort Drum community go out to the family of Major General Bannister, his wife Trese and his daughter Lindsey during this difficult time. I yield back. ###
06.06.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), has led a group of Republican lawmakers in a letter to the House Appropriations Committee urging that the Committee increase funding for the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) to $750 million. “Community Action Agencies are doing critical work in communities across the nation to tackle issues ranging from poverty to combating the heroin and opioid epidemic,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These agencies serve communities across our district and I am pleased to lead the effort for this needed funding.” Rep. Stefanik and the lawmakers wrote: As your subcommittee finalizes its recommendations for the FY2019 Labor-HHS appropriations bill, we write to urge the subcommittee to fund the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) at no less than $750 million. As Republican Members of Congress, we share your concern that every taxpayer dollar must be spent wisely and accrue to the benefit of the American people. CSBG is a low-cost, high impact program that helps move people from poverty to independence. And, perhaps most importantly, it allows for substantial local control. CSBG funding supports more than 1,000 local Community Action Agencies, which provide essential services to nearly 16 million low-income people. Local communities depend on CSBG funding to develop extensive community partnerships, coordinate services, respond to emergencies, and fill gaps in services. Community Action Agencies continue to be on the front lines in helping low-income communities address their unique problems, whether it is bringing transportation to these low-income communities or providing critical post-treatment services to individuals, families and communities impacted by the opioid crisis. Communities all across America rely on their CSBG-funded Community Action Agency to help provide opportunities for those most in need. We realize that you and your committee face difficult funding decisions in this year’s Labor-HHS appropriations bill. However, after several years of nearly flat funding, it is our hope that the Community Services Block Grant will receive a very modest increase of $35 million, bringing the block grant total to $750 million. We look forward to working with you as the appropriations process moves forward. Click here for a digital copy of their letter. ###
05.31.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Northern Border Caucus, issued the following statement on the announcement of steel and aluminum tariffs on allies including Canada: “I strongly oppose these tariffs on our nation’s closest economic partner, Canada,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “If President Trump wants to target Chinese steel dumping, he should target tariffs at China and not at our friends to the North. The shared production of goods by the U.S. and Canada actually makes our goods more competitive in global markets against China and others." “Imposing these tariffs will raise prices on businesses in our district that use steel and aluminum, and these costs will be passed on to consumers. Furthermore, as a Northern Border district, I am concerned that these tariffs could incentivize Canadian firms in our district to leave, or possibly incentivize Canada to impose harmful tariffs on our own products. Thousands of manufacturing jobs in the North Country are directly tied to Canada and cross border supply chains, including more than 8,500 in the transportation equipment sector alone." “I will continue to work in Congress to strengthen our relationship with Canada including in the ongoing renegotiations of NAFTA.” ###
05.31.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 5640, The “WHOLE MILK Act.” This bill would amend the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to allow schools that participate in the National School Lunch Program to serve unflavored whole milk. “Whole milk provides important nutritional value for growing children,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Furthermore, allowing the sale of unflavored whole milk in our schools will help our North Country dairy farmers who struggle with low milk prices and lack of access to markets. Eliminating this unnecessary, top down government mandate is commonsense and I am pleased to join my colleagues in support of this legislation.” Under the Obama Administration, schools participating in the National School Lunch Program were barred from selling unflavored whole milk and could only sell one percent unflavored milk. ###
05.30.2018	Jefferson County, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “It is with deep sadness that our Fort Drum community learns of the passing of an exceptional patriot and military leader, Major General Jeffrey Bannister,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am proud to have gotten to know General Bannister and his family during my first term in office. We worked closely together to successfully prevent devastating personnel cuts from taking place at Fort Drum, as well as on numerous other projects to strengthen this installation. “When I visited him at Fort Drum, Major General Bannister was always an amiable and attentive host. It was clear he commanded the greatest respect from the men and women stationed on post, and I knew his greatest interest was their well-being. “I remember running into General Bannister with his family at the Cream Cheese Festival in Lowville after he returned from a recent deployment. He was wearing his baseball cap and casually eating at a picnic table with his wife and they both gave me a warm hug. He was truly dedicated to our country and this community. “My heart goes out to the family of Major General Bannister and his wife, Trese, during this difficult time.” ###
05.25.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 5900, the Tick-Borne Diseases Control and Accountability Act. This legislation is designed to remove barriers to and improve the effectiveness of federal tick-borne disease programs in developing the tools to prevent, diagnose and treat Lyme and other tick-borne diseases (TBD). “Unfortunately, the northeast is the epicenter of the Lyme Disease epidemic with over 90 percent of confirmed Lyme disease cases being reported from New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Connecticut,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This legislation builds off my work in the 21st Century Cures Act by creating a structure for coordination and strategy to combat tick-borne diseases. I will continue working in Congress to ensure we are strengthening our ability to combat debilitating diseases like Lyme.” Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored legislation to establish a Tick Borne Disease Advisory Committee, which was included in the 21st Century Cures Act and signed into law. This legislation builds on that effort to prevent and treat Lyme disease. Background: The bill creates a new structure for oversight and coordination of all TBD activities, including a new national TBD strategy, and provides for the enhancement of federal activities relating to the diagnosis, surveillance, prevention and research of TBD. The bill provides for coordination with the official HHS TBD Working Group created by the 21st Century Cures Act. Legislative Specifics: This bill establishes the Office of Oversight and Coordination for TBD (TBD Office) to oversee the creation and updating of the national strategy developed in Sec. 4, oversee all HHS TBD activities, and incorporate the report of the official HHS TBD Working Group. Sec 4. requires the Secretary or a designee to develop and submit to Congress a strategy for the conduct of Lyme and other TBD activities, including budget requirements, an assessment of all federally funded programs and activities, and strategies for improving diagnosis, prevention and treatment, for improving patient outcomes, and for improving coordination and partnerships among federal agencies and other entities. The bill also requires the Secretary, in coordination with the TBD Office and acting through CDC, FDA, NIH, other HHS agencies to conduct certain activities and to coordinate all HHS programs and activities related to TBD, to non-infectious disorders caused by ticks and to the expanding threat of Bartonella. ###
05.24.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the full House of Representatives passed the FY’19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This legislation was passed by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee recently with numerous provisions Rep. Stefanik fought for to address military spouse unemployment, increase our Artificial Intelligence (AI) abilities, continue the fight for East Coast Missile Defense and other measures that can be read here. During House floor debate, Congresswoman Stefanik successfully amended the legislation to include her bipartisan bill, the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018. This legislation demands greater transparency from foreign government owned media outlets in the United States by requiring outlets to disclose their ownership and government ties to the FCC and American people. “I am proud of the bipartisan work on this year’s NDAA to strengthen our military readiness and give our troops the largest pay raise in nine years,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This added funding for our readiness will help strengthen military installations around the country, including Fort Drum.” “This year’s NDAA includes many of my initiatives to help our military spouses and families, ensure that the United States is the global leader in AI, bolster East Coast Missile Defense, and increase transparency at the Defense Health Agency. This final House passed bill also includes provisions of mine that could benefit companies developing strategic materials, like Alcoa, and language I authored that will allow Members of Congress to better serve our wounded warriors and their families. “I look forward to working with the Senate on a final package that can be signed into law.” ###
05.23.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass S. 292 – the Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act of 2018. “I am pleased to support this commonsense, bipartisan bill to advance pediatric cancer research,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Each year, almost 16,000 children are diagnosed with cancer, and this legislation will help ensure more children can access potentially lifesaving treatment. I urge the President to quickly sign this into law, and I will continue working in Congress on solutions to address our nation’s healthcare challenges.” S. 292 would amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to support the collection of donated biospecimens from children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer. The bill would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish pilot programs that develop or evaluate systems for monitoring and caring for childhood cancer survivors. S. 292 also would direct the Secretary of HHS, through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to award grants to states to update and improve childhood cancer registries. ###
05.23.2018	Washington, DC –Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Val Demings (D-FL-10) have introduced the bipartisan ‘Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act,’ designed to strengthen America’s response to Russian interference in our elections. The bill would strengthen federal cybersecurity, support intelligence gathering, and enhance NATO military activities. It has been vetted by bipartisan national security experts. Said Rep. Stefanik, “Russia is an active adversary of the United States and this legislation aims to counter their ability to conduct information warfare on the American people. As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities and a Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan bill to bolster our cyber defense and strengthen our partnership with NATO.” Said Rep. Demings, “When America takes on a bully, we should fight to win. I won’t sit in silence while a foreign dictator attacks our democracy and our citizens. Today, I’m introducing a bill to take clear steps to defend us from Russia’s uncontested aggression. “Thirteen Russians and three companies have already been indicted for interfering with the 2016 election. Since then, Russia has continued its campaigns of disinformation, propaganda, and political and military pressure against U.S. allies and interests. “American families deserve to know that their news is real, their power grid is secure, and their personal information won’t be stolen. Our allies deserve to know that America will respond strategically and strongly in their defense against aggression. All of us deserve a safe, free world—and the only way to get it is to stand up to the world’s dictators when they go on the offensive. “It’s time to stand up for ourselves by securing our cyber-infrastructure, preventing malicious hacks, strengthening our intelligence-gathering, working with our allies to push back against Russian aggression, and investigating and shutting down the illicit funding streams that bankroll Putin and his cronies.” Bill Summary The Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act relies heavily on the work of a Council of Foreign Relations report by Robert Blackwill and Philip Gordon. Mr. Blackwill worked for the George W. Bush Administration. Mr. Gordon worked for the Obama Administration. The Defend Against Russian Disinformation Act declares that Russia has engaged in the spread of disinformation, aiming to undermine democracies including the United States. To combat Russian influence, the bill codifies the State Department’s Coordinator of Sanctions Office to oversee the diplomatic aspects of U.S. and U.N. sanctions with respect to Russia. The office was closed by the administration last year. In addition, it expresses that Executive Order 13800, issued by President Trump last year to strengthen federal cybersecurity, should be implemented. Finally, it directs the Secretary of Defense to conduct more NATO naval exercises in the Baltic and Black Sea and conduct joint research to enhance military capabilities to deter Russian aggression in those regions. ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Brad Schneider (D-IL) announced the introduction of new bipartisan legislation to improve primary care options for individuals with high-deductible health insurance plans. H.R. 5858, the Primary Care Patient Protection Act of 2018, would create a primary care benefit for all high-deductible health plan (HDHP) holders allowing for up to two deductible-free primary care office visits each year. The use of HDHPs has drastically increased among individuals and employers in the past decade. According the Centers for Disease Control, among privately insured individuals under the age of 65, more than 43 percent were enrolled in a HDHP in the first half of 2017, compared to just 25 percent in 2010. While HDHPs have low monthly premiums, they require the plan holder to pay 100% of their medical costs before insurance kicks in. Evidence shows that the high initial out-of-pocket costs often deter individuals from seeking primary care services, a problem that can lead to much higher future healthcare costs. “I am committed to ensuring North Country families have access to quality, affordable healthcare, and I am pleased to join Rep. Schneider on this bipartisan healthcare legislation," said Stefanik. "By increasing access to primary care without the burden of co-pays or deductibles, patients will be more likely to seek preventative care, which results in better health outcomes and cost savings. This legislation is endorsed by the American Academy of Family Physicians, and I urge my House colleagues to support this patient-centered healthcare policy." “Financial burdens should not prevent Americans from seeing their primary care doctor to discuss critical health care needs,” said Schneider. “The upfront costs of high-deductible health plans discourage too many Americans from getting the preventative care they need, leaving issues untreated and ultimately resulting in higher costs and poorer outcomes down the line. I appreciate Rep. Stefanik joining me to introduce this bipartisan legislation to improve the health care options available to patients with high-deductible plans.” The Primary Care Patient Protection Act is supported by the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) “Having an ongoing relationship with a primary care physician is one of the most important factors in preventing both new health problems and complications from existing chronic conditions,” said Michael Munger, MD, president of AAFP. “This bill preserves that patient-physician relationship by tearing down a financial barrier that can discourage or block patients from getting important preventive and care management services. We applaud Reps. Schneider’s and Stefanik’s leadership and we welcome their introduction of the ‘Primary Care Patient Protection Act of 2018.’” Full text of the legislation is available online. ###
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce held a hearing on "Examining the Policies and Priorities of the U.S. Department of Education” with Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos. Congresswoman Stefanik asked Secretary DeVos about the Perkins Loan Program, education in rural communities, and Federal Impact Aid. Click here to watch her questions. ###
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) introduced the Vietnam Era Veterans Hepatitis C Testing Enhancement Act – bipartisan legislation to increase access to Hepatitis C treatment for our nation’s heroes. “May is Hepatitis Awareness Month, and I am pleased to work across the aisle on this important legislation to improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Vietnam veterans are at a much greater risk for carrying HCV, and millions of our veterans remain unaware of their status, preventing them from accessing care they need. This commonsense legislation will develop a pilot program to study ways we can expand testing and treatment for our heroes. As the proud representative of more veterans than any Congressional district in New York State, I will continue to deliver results in Congress to repay the debt we owe those who have served.” “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Vietnam Era Veterans Hepatitis C Testing Enhancement Act. Currently the rate of HCV is about twice as high in military personnel than in the general public, and no reliable data exists for Vietnam Era Veterans. At the time of the Vietnam War, HCV had not yet been identified and effectively understood along with proper prevention and infection control opportunities. It is critical that the VA and other veteran service organizations be empowered to work at the community level to assess the health needs of these brave men and women. They answered the call to service, and we owe it to them to help now. This legislation will go a long way to addressing this public health concern by initiating a pilot program to screen 350,000 veterans in a handful of urban and rural VISNs for HCV and collecting critical data on HCV for Vietnam Era Veterans,” said Congressman Ryan. Daniel Kaifetz, USMC, American Legion Post 1619 (Morrisonville, NY): "As a Vietnam Era veteran and Hepatitis C survivor I have seen the damage first hand this deadly viral pathogen can and is doing to my brothers who served. A generation of fine young Americans faced not only the conflict of the Vietnam War, but also this collateral damage which so many still carry today. The majority of those infected with Hepatitis C are not aware they have it, and without treatment this can lead to terminal liver cancer and other serious health complications. The exact rate of hepatitis C infection among Vietnam Era veterans, both combat and non-combat, remains unknown, but is expected to be notably higher than the current rate for non-military personnel. This important pilot study will help gain much needed public health and prevalence information while ensuring affected individuals can know their health status. Moreover, it is imperative that we provide an effective rapid testing program for all Vietnam Era veterans and not just among VA enrollees. This legislation is an important step in honoring the commitment and taking care of those served during the Vietnam Era.” Background: At the time of the Vietnam War, HCV had yet to be identified and properly understood along with proper prevention and infection control opportunities. While it is currently known that the rate of HCV is about twice as high in military personnel than in the general public, no prevalence data exists for Vietnam Era veterans. HCV is an infectious disease that often goes unnoticed for decades until the liver is damaged so severely that an affected individual’s life is at risk and they require dramatic health interventions, including liver transplantation. However, HCV is also easily diagnosed and can be cured well before catastrophic health issues arise. Over recent years, the VA has been working diligently to screen, diagnose, and treat veterans impacted by HCV. These efforts are limited though to veterans that actively engage the VA health system. All Vietnam era veterans shared the same exposure risks and must be offered HCV screening regardless of their current eligibility for VA healthcare. Veterans services organization, such as American Legion Post 1619 in Morrisonville, NY, have demonstrated a great deal of success reaching Vietnam Era veterans outside of VA care with rapid, point-of-care outreach testing. The bipartisan Vietnam Era Veterans HCV Testing Enhancement Act would: Establish a narrow pilot program to screen 350,000 veterans in a handful of urban and rural VISNs for HCV using rapid testing and outreach with veterans groups. Gain important prevalence data on HCV for Vietnam Era veterans. Remove administrative barriers to allow any Vietnam Era veteran to receive an HCV test and understand their need for treatment. Use of rapid testing will ensure all veterans tested will know their HCV status. Provide important and timely information on the success of the program to identify subsequent opportunities to expand the program nationally and or to other veteran cohorts that could benefit from outreach testing. ###
05.22.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) last night helped the House pass a series of measures aimed at supporting our veterans. “Our veterans have served our nation and it’s critical that we work together to serve them,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased the House passed these commonsense measures in a strong bipartisan fashion. As the proud Representative of more veterans than any other Member of Congress in New York, I will continue to prioritize their needs.” The legislation passed out of the House yesterday includes: 1) H.R. 1972 - VA Billing Accountability Act, as amended (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R-PA) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to waive the requirement of certain veterans to make copayments for hospital care, nursing home care, medical services, or medications if 1) a VA error caused delayed notification of payment to the veteran and 2) the veteran received such notice more than 180 days after receiving the care at a VA facility or more than 18 months after receiving care at a non-VA facility. 2) H.R. 3642 - Military SAVE Act, as amended (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a three-year pilot program to improve access to private health care for veterans who are survivors of military sexual trauma. 3) H.R. 3832 - Veterans Opioid Abuse Prevention Act, as amended (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Neal Dunn (R-FL) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill requires medical providers at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) who prescribe controlled substances to veterans to seek information regarding those veterans from state programs that monitor prescription drug use. 4) H.R. 4245 - Veterans’ Electronic Health Record Modernization Oversight Act of 2017 (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to submit to Congress documents related to managing the Electronic Health Record Modernization program and quarterly updates to certain documents. 5) H.R. 4830 - SIT-REP Act, as amended (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill would amend 38 U.S. Code § 3679 so that a school is not eligible for GI Bill benefits unless it adopts a policy that protects eligible student veterans, survivors, or dependents from policies that penalize these students for their inability to meet the institution’s financial obligations because of a delayed GI Bill payment. 6) H.R. 4958 - Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2018 (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill increase the rates of Wartime Disability Compensation, Compensation for Dependents, Clothing Allowance, Dependency and Indemnity Compensation to Surviving Spouse, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation to Children by the same percentage as the increase in benefits provided under title II (Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance) of the Social Security Act. 7) H.R. 5044 - Service-Disabled Veterans Small Business Continuation Act (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill would amend 38 U.S. Code § 8127(k)(3) so that a surviving spouse of a less than 100% service-disabled veteran small business owner can maintain their priority status following their spouse’s death for three years, the date on which the surviving spouse remarries, or the date on which the surviving spouse relinquishes an ownership interest in the small business, whichever occurs first. 8) H.R. 5215 - Veterans Affairs Purchase Card Misuse Mitigation Act (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) |Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill requires the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to revoke the purchase card or approval authority from any employee who is found to have knowingly misused their card. 9) H.R. 5418 - Veterans Affairs Medical-Surgical Purchasing Stabilization Act, as amended (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), under the Medical Surgical Prime Vendor program, to award procurement contracts to multiple regional vendors, rather than one nationwide vendor, when procuring medical supplies. 10) H.R. 4334 - Improving Oversight of Women Veterans’ Care Act of 2017 (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Lou Correa (D-CA) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to submit reports to Congress on the availability of gender-specific services in the community to women veterans and environment of care standards for women veterans in VA medical facilities. 11) H.R. 4451 - Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act of 2018, as amended (PDF) Sponsor: Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) | Veterans Affairs CommitteeTopline Summary: This bill as amended, would amend U.S. Code to provide a five year extension, through Fiscal Year 2022 of both the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Programs and the Homeless Women Veterans and Homeless Veterans with Children Reintegration Grant Program. ###
05.18.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), co-chair of the Invasive Species Caucus, offered and passed two amendments to the House Farm bill to help combat these ecological predators. Rep. Stefanik’s Forest Restoration Amendment would modernize the Competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grants program. The changes to the program include adding forest restoration to the existing grant program. Additionally, the amendment realigns the priorities of the program to focus on researching the characteristics and ecosystem-wide impact of these species in addition to allowing grants to be used for supporting the restoration of native forests that have suffered severe levels of mortality caused by these species. This amendment is particularly important in light of the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid which has decimated eastern hemlocks along the east coast and pose a threat to the Adirondack Park. This amendment was adopted unanimously by voice vote. Rep. Stefanik’s Invasive Vegetation Amendment simply includes invasive vegetation to the Designated Treatment Areas program within the Healthy Forests Restoration Act. This inclusion will allow governors to work with the Secretary of Agriculture to further protect national forests that will ensure the long term health and use of our land. This amendment was also adopted unanimously by voice vote. Click the images above for video of Congresswoman Stefanik speaking on both of these amendments. The House Farm Bill is scheduled for a vote today. “Across the country, our forests are changing: Native tree species like hemlock, chestnut, and elm are threatened by invasive species and forest pests, fundamentally altering iconic landscapes from the Adirondacks to the American West. Our fish and wildlife depend on healthy forests—and that means hunters and anglers do, too. Productive forests support a powerful economic engine based on outdoor recreation opportunities and forest products, but air and water quality matter just as much to rural communities. Representative Stefanik’s sensible amendments to the House Farm Bill would ensure that our nation’s forests begin to get the resources they so desperately need, and the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership is proud to offer our support.” –Steve Kline, Director of Government Relations, Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership ###
05.17.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 5736, the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery through Effective Employment and Reentry (CAREER) Act. This bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a five-year pilot program to provide grant funding for initiatives that expand workforce participation amongst recovering addicts. “We must be vigilant in the ongoing fight against the devastating opioid epidemic that is sweeping our country and our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I am pleased to cosponsor this bill that will provide support to victims of the opioid epidemic by expanding the availability of resources to help them get back on their feet and reenter the workforce. I will continue to work in Congress on solutions to help families that have been hurt by the opioid epidemic.” Background: In March of 2018, a study conducted by the American Action Forum found that conditions related to the opioid epidemic kept over 900 thousand individuals out of the workforce in 2015. This bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a five-year pilot program to provide grant funding for initiatives that expand workforce participation amongst recovering addicts. H.R. 5736 would authorize $200 million in funding for these grants for each of the five years that the program is active. H.R. 5736 would also provide an additional $25 million for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. These funds would be used to administer a competitive grant funding program for expanding transitional housing services for recovering addicts. This bill would also amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) to allow for 5% of a state’s WIOA funds to be used for providing expanded career services to recovering addicts that are transitioning back into the workforce. ###
05.17.2018	Washington, DC – Following a recent veterans roundtable in Plattsburgh, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of S. 2372 – the VA MISSION Act. This legislation strengthens and improves the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system for the approximately nine million veteran patients who utilize the system. It passed the House by a vote of 347-70. “We must continue to work to ensure our heroes have access to the care they need, and I was pleased to support this important VA reform before the House today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district is home to more veterans than any district in New York State – over 50,000 of these brave men and women. When I speak with our veterans in the district, they continue to struggle with access to the healthcare benefits they deserve. This important legislation will improve our VA healthcare system and expand access to the Family Caregiver Program that I have long advocated to strengthen. I will continue to work in Congress on commonsense reforms to help our veterans.” Background: S. 2372 - VA MISSION Act S. 2372 strengthens and improves the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system for the approximately nine million veteran patients who utilize the system. The bill consolidates VA’s multiple community care programs and authorities and provides further funding to sustain the Choice Program until implementation of the new program. It establishes an Asset and Infrastructure Review (AIR) process to recommend actions to modernize and realign VA’s massive medical infrastructure. It would also expand VA’s Family Caregiver Program eligibility to pre-9/11 veterans and increase VA’s internal capacity to care for veteran patients in VA medical facilities through improvements to various recruitment and retention programs. Access to community care would be required: If VA does not offer the care or services the veteran requires If VA does not operate a full-service medical facility in the state in which a given veteran resides If a given veteran was eligible for care in the community under the Choice 40-mile rule and meets certain other criteria If a given veteran and the referring clinician agree that furnishing care in the community is in the best medical interest of the veteran If VA is not able to furnish care within designated access standards developed by VA after consultation with certain other entities Access to community care would also be authorized: If a veteran is in need of an organ or bone marrow transplant and it is determined that there is a medically compelling reason to access community care If it is determined that VA care is not complying with established standards of quality For veterans wanting to access walk-in care Additionally, the bill requires the VA to establish a nine member AIR Commission. The AIR Commissioners would be appointed by the President the with the advice and consent of the Senate and in consultation with Congressional leaders. At least three Commissioners would be required to represent the VSO community. The Commission would be tasked with considering recommendations made by VA and submitting a report to the President on VHA facility modernization and realignment. Because the Veteran’s Choice program will exhaust funding by approximately the end of May, the bill directly appropriates $5.2 billion for the Veterans Choice Program (VCP). Groups Supporting this legislation include: Air Force Association (AFA) Air Force Sergeants Association (AFSA) Air Force Women Officers Associated (AFWOA) American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) Americans for Prosperity America's Warrior Partnership AMSUS, The Society of Federal Health Professionals AMVETS (American Veterans) Army Aviation Association of America (AAAA) Association of the US Navy (AUSN) Blinded Veterans Association (BVA) Code of Support Foundation (COSF) Commissioned Officers Association of the US Public Health Services Inc (COA) Concerned Veterans for America DAV (Disabled American Veterans) Elizabeth Dole Foundation (EDF) Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the US (EANGUS) Fleet Reserve Association (FRA) Gold Star Wives of America (GSW) Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) Jewish War Veterans (JWV) Marine Corps League (MCL) Marine Corps Reserve Association (MCRA) Military Chaplains Association (MCA) Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH) National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) National Military Family Association (NMFA) Naval Enlisted Reserve Association (NERA) Non Commissioned Officers Association of the USA (NCOA) Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) Reserve Officers Association (ROA) Service Women's Action Network (SWAN) The American Legion The Retired Enlisted Association (TREA) Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) US Army Warrant Officers Association (USAWOA) USCG Chief Petty Officers Association (CPOA) Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA) Wounded Warrior Project (WWP) ###
05.16.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 5698, the Protect and Serve Act of 2018 – legislation that will increase penalties for those who knowingly cause or attempt to cause significant bodily injury to any law enforcement officer. This follows a series of bills she supported that passed the House to support our law enforcement during National Police Week. “Throughout our community, brave law enforcement officers dedicate their careers and risk their lives each day to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Police Week is an important opportunity to thank our law enforcement officers for their service, and to honor the brave men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice. I thank my colleagues for helping pass these important bills to support our law enforcement.” In addition to H.R. 5698, the House has also passed: H.R. 613 – the Lieutenant Osvaldo Albarati Correctional Officer Self-Protection Act; H.R. 4854 – the Justice Served Act; H.R. 1417 – the National Law Enforcement Museum Exhibits Act; H.R. 5242 – the School Resource Officer Assessment Act; and H.Res. 285 – a resolution expressing the sense of the United States House of Representatives that Congress and the President should empower the creation of police and community alliances designed to enhance and improve communication and collaboration between members of the law enforcement community and the public they serve. ###
05.10.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, spent 14.5 hours in Committee markup passing the FY’19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) – the most important national security legislation Congress considers each year. The FY’19 NDAA passed out of the House Armed Services Committee by a vote of 60-1. “I am proud of our Committee's bipartisan work to write the National Defense Authorization Act this year,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This critical national security legislation authorizes funding for our Department of Defense, and it gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep our nation safe. “As the proud Representative of Fort Drum, I am pleased this legislation provides added funding to increase our military readiness and gives our troops the largest pay raise in nine years. And as a Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am also pleased that this legislation includes several provisions to counter Russian aggression and to provide new sanctions to the Russian arms industry.” Stefanik Legislation to Address Military Spouse Unemployment Included “One of my key priorities for this must pass legislation was to add provisions from my bipartisan bill – the Military Spouse Employment Act of 2018 -- with Rep. Donald McEachin,” said Stefanik. “This aims to increase resources and expand job opportunities for military spouses, who frequently face challenges as a result of their spouses’ service. Military spouses serve too, and it's critical that we work to ensure these brave men and women have the jobs they need and deserve.” Click here to read more about this legislation. Stefanik Wounded Warrior Combat Notification Included “Under current law, Members of Congress are only notified about a combat injury to one of our constituents serving in the military if the individual is transferred to a hospital in the United States,” said Stefanik. “I was pleased that sections from my bipartisan bill – the Expanding Wounded in Action Notification Act – were included that will require the Department of Defense to notify Members of Congress whenever a constituent serving in the armed forces is seriously wounded and hospitalized while on active duty. Many Members of our community are defending our freedoms around the world, and this legislation gives us a better chance to support their families in their time of need.” Read more about this bill here. Stefanik Initiative to Make U.S. Global Leader in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Included As the Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, one of my key priorities has been to ensure that the United States is the global leader in developing cutting edge AI technology,” added Stefanik. “The provision I included in the NDAA will establish a policy and oversight council to review advances in AI and identify our nation’s AI needs. AI is a critical element of the 21st Century Battlefield, and it is critical that the United States leads on this issue.” The language Rep. Stefanik had included on AI better organizes the Department of Defense to oversee, accelerate, and integrate Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning across the defense enterprise. The language will establish an AI policy and oversight council, and conduct a thorough review of the wide-ranging military applications of this decisive technology. Stefanik Provision Continues Fight for East Coast Missile Defense The East Coast is home to our nation's capital, the center of the world's financial system, as well as several significant population centers,” added Stefanik. “As our enemies' capabilities improve, it is reckless to leave the East Coast open to attack. I have been a strong advocate for an East Coast Missile Defense Site at Fort Drum and included language in this NDAA that supports looking at placing shorter range systems to defend the East Coast.” Stefanik Provision Increases Transparency at the Defense Health Agency Congresswoman Stefanik’s office recently helped Carthage hospital recover $6.8 million in reimbursement money owed to it by the federal government after a long dispute over reimbursement rates. “It’s inexcusable for a federal agency to deny a hospital funding that is rightly owed to them,” Stefanik said. The FY’19 NDAA will change the way DHA centralizes control of military healthcare. The language will prohibit the Secretary of Defense from closing or limiting services in any military medical treatment facility until a transition certification process is completed in order to protect and ensure access to care for our military families. NDAA Supports Advancements in Smelting from Businesses Like Alcoa The NDAA directs the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering to provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on dual-use ceramic capabilities. “Advancements in smelting like those done at Alcoa have significant overlap with ceramic production methods and could lower ceramic production costs for our military,” added Stefanik. “Advanced ceramics can enhance our ability to protect our troops and equipment, and this language incorporates an important business in our district into the National Defense discussion.” ###
05.09.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) crossed party lines to sign a discharge petition to force a series of floor votes on four DACA, immigration and border security bills. If the petition, led by Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), receives 218 signatures, it will force a vote on H. Res. 774 that Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA-10) introduced in March, to allow Members to debate the issue on the House floor under the “queen of the hill” rule. According to the rule, whichever proposal receives the most votes and meets the mandatory majority-vote threshold would be adopted. “Congress has kicked the can for too long on fixing our broken immigration system, including for our agriculture workers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Today I joined an effort to force a vote on four measures to address DACA and border security. I have long supported finding a solution to DACA and have cosponsored bipartisan legislation to address it. I urge my colleagues to support this petition and move forward on tackling the immigration challenges facing our nation.” Republican signatories of the Discharge Petition include: Reps. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Will Hurd (TX-23), David G. Valadao (CA-21), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Mia B. Love (UT-04), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Charles W. Dent (PA-15), Fred Upton, (MI-06), David G. Reichert (WA-08), Mike Coffman (CO-06), Chris Collins (NY-27), John J. Faso (NY-19), Mark E. Amodei (NV-02), and Elise M. Stefanik (NY-21). Signatories are updated in real-time here. ###
05.09.2018	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Cheyanne Stunger, a Senior from Argyle Central School, is the winner of the 2018 NY-21 Congressional Art Competition. Her winning charcoal drawing, Trepidation, will be showcased in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “For the next year, Cheyanne’s artwork will be on display at the U.S. Capitol for visitors and dignitaries from around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a strong advocate for the arts, I look forward to young North Country artists showcasing their artistic vision and creativity in this competition every year. I congratulate Cheyanne and hope she inspires other young artists in our district to pursue the arts and enter their work in next year’s Congressional Art Competition.” ###
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement after President Trump’s announcement on the Iran Deal: “The Iranian nuclear deal was a deeply flawed agreement that provided the world’s largest state sponsor of terror with billions of dollars while failing to stop their path to nuclear weapons capability, and failing to address Iran’s ballistic missile program,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I support President Trump’s decision to withdraw and believe we must impose sanctions on the Iranian regime immediately. We must also work with our allies in the region to ensure Iran does not become a nuclear power. I will continue working with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to ensure our military has the capabilities they need to address any threats posed by this rogue regime, and to ensure that the Administration is pursuing a strategy to keep Iran from developing nuclear weapons.” Background: 9/11/2015: Stefanik votes against legislation to approve the Iran Deal ###
05.07.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the announcement by the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) of a $1,050,000.00 grant to New York State’s Department of Environmental Conservation as part of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI): “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is a critical program to preserve these national treasures, and I applaud the EPA for making this grant a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I will continue to support this important program in Congress so that we can protect our natural ecosystems, improve water quality and combat invasive species that threaten our region.” Congresswoman Stefanik has been a strong advocate for the GLRI since arriving in Congress. She voted for the FY18 Omnibus Appropriations bill that included $300,000,000 to support the GLRI. Background on the GLRI grant from the EPA: 24. PROJECT TITLE: GREAT LAKES RESTORATION INITIATIVE- STATE CAPACITY DESCRIPTION: New York State will continue to implement its Great Lakes Program activities to promote significant progress towards achieving the priority goals of the GLRI Action Plan Part 2 (2016-2019) and beyond. New York State will extend its Great Lakes Team through FY 2019 with nominal program and project management and technical staff needed to provide overall program management and technical assistance for Lakewide Action and Management Plans (LAMPs) for Lake Erie and Lake Ontario, encompassing policy alignment, project integration, technical assistance, public outreach and reporting functions required for the five Areas of Concern (AOCs) within New York State. ###
05.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21) and Congressman Anthony G. Brown (MD-04) introduced a bipartisan resolution to commemorate Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania’s 100th anniversary of their creation as independent states. Co-sponsors include Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Seth Moulton (MA-06), John Shimkus (IL-15), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and Steve Cohen (TN-09) “I am pleased to join Rep. Anthony Brown on this bipartisan effort to commemorate the 100th Anniversary of independence for Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As NATO allies, these nations have been close partners with the United States in our efforts to bring greater security around the world. These nations have also demonstrated a shared commitment to our fundamental principles of democracy and freedom. I was pleased to visit Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania recently with Rep. Brown in February and saw firsthand their sense of excitement at this important milestone for their nations. I congratulate these allies of ours and am pleased to introduce this bipartisan resolution today.” “100 years ago the United States recognized the independence of the Baltic nations - and continued to recognize that independence despite a brutal Soviet occupation. Today, in the face of renewed Russian aggression, it is imperative that we remember our allies who continue to combat direct and indirect Russian challenges to their sovereignty,” said Congressman Brown. “I recently returned from a trip to the Baltic states, where I saw how Estonia’s, Latvia’s, and Lithuania’s close security partnership with the United States serves as an important bulwark against Russian aggression in the region. The Baltic nations are among our most reliable Allies in NATO, and the commitment of the United States to their security must be rock solid” “Lithuania has always felt strong support from the U.S. Congress and this Resolution is further proof of it. We are grateful for continued cooperation in addressing various challenges to our common security and in fostering closer transatlantic relations. Our unity today is as important as ever in order to stand together against those who want to undermine our democracy, our freedom and our values,” said Ambassador of Lithuania Mr. Rolandas Kriščiūnas. “The United States and Estonia share a long-standing relationship based on our joint dedication to the principles of democracy, individual liberty, and the rule of law. ‘The axis of good,’as president Kaljulaid put it after meeting with President Trump,” said Ambassador of Estonia Mr. Lauri Lepik. “We are grateful for the bipartisan support Estonia and the other Baltic states have enjoyed in Congress and view this proposed resolution in the House as a reflection of these strong bonds.” “We have always highly valued consistent and enduring bipartisan support of the United States Congress for the three Baltic states. Latvia supports the initiative of the House of Representatives to pass the Resolution on Noting the Baltic States of Estonia’s, Latvia’s, and Lithuania’s 100th anniversary of independence,” said Ambassador of Latvia Mr. Andris Teikmanis. “This year we are celebrating our freedom, independence and heritage with our American friends. We are strongly convinced that many of our compatriots and communities of Baltic descent in the United States are joining us today in thanking the U.S. and Congress for its invaluable contribution to the Baltic security, strategic partnership and bolstering of mutually beneficial cooperation that we are looking forward to strengthen and deepen in the years to come.” ###
05.01.2018	Plattsburgh, NY– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) held a roundtable with Plattsburgh area veterans at the American Legion, Post 20. This roundtable was an opportunity to discuss the challenges facing our veterans and some of the issues Congresswoman Stefanik has been working on in Congress. The roundtable was moderated by Barrie Finnegan, the Executive Director of North Country Honor Flight. “I thank the American Legion and Barrie Finnegan of North Country Honor Flight for helping us put together this important veterans event today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district is the proud home of more veterans than any other district in New York State – over 50,000 of these brave men and women. Today’s roundtable was an opportunity to discuss the ongoing challenges they face, including access to healthcare. My offices have been pleased to help our North Country heroes recover over $2.5 million in earned VA benefits, and in Congress I have been pleased to lead on several issues to improve the lives of those who have risked it all for our nation. I will continue to prioritize the needs of our veterans and thank everyone who participated in today’s discussion.” Some of the legislative initiatives Rep. Stefanik has championed include: Supporting passage of the Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act: This legislation provides the Secretary of Veterans Affairs flexibility to remove VA employees for performance or misconduct, adds protections for whistleblowers, and increases accountability and performance measures for VA Senior Executive Service employees. This was signed into law by President Trump. Author of Support Our Military Caregivers Act: Legislation to reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Family Caregiver Program to help better support family members caring for seriously wounded veterans. Introduced a resolution to support of our Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans: This bill includes the territorial seas around Vietnam for purposes of the presumption of service connection for diseases associated with exposure by veterans to certain herbicide agents while in Vietnam.Co-introduced the Keeping Our Commitment to Ending Veteran Homelessness Act of 2018: This bipartisan legislation would reauthorize several key programs that provide outreach and services to homeless veterans across the country. The bill would renew eight U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Labor programs that will begin to expire on September 30, 2018 without Congressional action. ###
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 4 – the FAA Reauthorization Act. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Department of Transportation (DOT) for five years. “This reauthorization and infrastructure package is critical to the safety of air traffic and to the development of our airports,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased that two of my initiatives were included to protect America’s international air carriers from unfair business practices and to promote more opportunity for women in the aviation industry. This bill also reauthorizes the Essential Air Service, which is critical to maintaining commercial air service for small, rural airports in our district. The economic success of our region is closely tied to the health of our local airports and air service, and I am pleased to support this bipartisan, five-year reauthorization today.” This legislation passed the House by a vote of 393-13. The FAA Reauthorization Act: Reauthorizes the FAA and the DOT to carry out activities related to civil aviation for five years Increases and fully authorizes the Airport Improvement Program, which funds construction of critical infrastructure at airports of all sizes to ensure the long-term sustainability of airports across the country including smaller communities Streamlines the FAA certification process to ensure U.S. companies can compete globally and get their products to market on time Includes a number of safety provisions to protect the traveling public Includes provisions to address the passenger experience, strengthen consumer protection laws, and maintain the Department of Transportation’s oversight of aviation consumer issues Provides the FAA with a number of tools, methods, and strategies to mitigate the impact of airport noise and the communities neighboring airports Advances drone technologies to the next step in safe unmanned aircraft system integration Includes the Disaster Recovery Reform Act which: Reforms the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Stafford Act by ensuring that a percentage of assistance provided in the wake of disasters is invested in predisaster hazard mitigation so that states, tribal, and local governments can pre-empt the damage and distress that results from disasters Clarifies what may be eligible for mitigation funding, making sure investments are cost effective and reduce risk Speeds recovery by creating efficiencies in FEMA’s programs such as getting structures inspected faster Provisions Rep. Stefanik cosponsored that were adopted to the base bill and during the amendment process include: The Promoting Women in the Aviation Workforce Act, which would: Express the sense of Congress that the aviation industry should explore all opportunities to encourage and support women to pursue a career in aviation; Direct the FAA to create and facilitate a Women in Aviation Advisory Board to promote organizations and programs that provide education, training, mentorship, outreach, and recruitment of women in the aviation industry; and Direct the FAA to submit a report to Congress on common trends that discourage women from pursuing aviation careers; expanding existing scholarship opportunities for women in aviation; and coordinating professional training and recruitment programs The Flags of Convenience Don’t Fly Here Act: This bill would require that DOT formally consider the applicability of Article 17 bis in instances where a foreign air carrier permit has been contested by an interested party. It would also direct DOT to work with the State Department on developing negotiating policies to address flag of convenience carrier policies. ###
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation to increase staffing and improve infrastructure at ports of entry. The bill, the Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act, directs the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to hire, train, and assign 5,000 new CBP officers and 350 support personnel at ports of entry, and authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to make improvements at existing ports of entry and construct new ports of entry on our southern and northern borders. The full text of the bill is here. “In the North Country, our economy depends on commerce with our Canadian neighbors, and improving border crossing will mean easier access and more tourism in our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation with another Member who understands how critical our ports of entry are for our economy, tourism and our national security. This legislation will make it easier and safer to travel throughout our region.” “Our ports of entry facilitate trade and travel that is connected to jobs all across Texas and the country,” O’Rourke said. “However, severe staffing shortages and outdated infrastructure are creating long wait times for visitors and lost economic growth for our state. At a time when some want to spend money building walls and deploying the National Guard to the border, we should be focused on increasing staffing and improving infrastructure at our ports of entry – that’s a better answer for our security, for travelers, and for our economy. I’m grateful to partner on this bill with Rep. Stefanik, who has shown really impressive leadership on efforts to keep our country safe as Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities.” Summary of the Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act: Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to make improvements at current land ports of entry and construct new ports on the northern and southern border. Directs the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to hire, train, and assign 5,000 additional CBP officers and 350 support personnel at land border crossings over six years, with a deadline of September 30, 2023. Requires DHS to provide all CBP officers with secure communications equipment to streamline communications between ports of entry and inspection stations, and with other federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. Establishes a federal grant program to enable state and local law enforcement on the Southern border to purchase identification and detection equipment as well as mobile, hand-held 2 way communication devices. Authorizes $6 billion over six years to carry out staffing increases and infrastructure improvements. Includes an offsetting provision directing OMB to rescind appropriated discretionary funds equal to any new outlays. ###
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Led by Chairwoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Ranking Member Jim Langevin (D-RI), the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) Subcommittee for Emerging Threats and Capabilities (ETC) today passed its proposal for the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The ETC Subcommittee mark will now be included in the full NDAA that will be considered by the House Armed Services Committee in May. “I thank Ranking Member Langevin and my colleagues on the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee for all their work to pass this critical, bipartisan legislation out of our Subcommittee today,” said Chairwoman Stefanik. “Our Subcommittee is responsible for many vital national security interests, and this mark includes many recommendations and initiatives to advance emerging technologies, strengthen our cyber warfare capabilities, protect our critical infrastructure, and bolster our counterterrorism operations, among other measures. I look forward to introducing and discussing our Subcommittee mark before the full House Armed Services Committee and seeing it passed by the House and signed into law by the President.” The ETC proposal is a vital part of the NDAA through which the Committee conducts oversight of defense-wide science and technology, cyber operations and programs, strategic communications and information operations, counterterrorism programs and policy, special operations forces, related Intelligence programs and activities, countering weapons of mass destruction, homeland defense, and consequence management. Specifically, the ETC proposal: Supports defense innovation, emerging technologies, and advances in Artificial Intelligence: Places emphasis on policy and programs to advance Artificial Intelligence, machine learning, quantum computing, and other technologies of national security consequence; Fully supports innovation efforts of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), and Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUx) to ensure technological superiority and overmatch for our warfighters against current and future threats; Advances hypersonic and directed energy weapons research, development, and transition efforts within DoD; Recommends to the Full Committee additional funds to accelerate Artificial Intelligence, and machine learning programs, as well as directed energy, and hypersonics programs. Strengthens cyber warfare capabilities and enhances congressional oversight: Prioritizes the readiness of U.S. Cyber Command, cyber mission forces, and cyber warfare tools and capabilities, including initiatives to strengthen the cyber workforce; Provides a pilot-authority to improve coordination between DOD and the Department of Homeland Security, to strengthen defense of critical infrastructure and networks; Enhances resiliency of DOD networks, weapons systems, supply chains, and capabilities; Strengthens congressional oversight of sensitive cyber military operations and cyber warfare tools and capabilities; Bolsters international partnerships for cyber warfare and influence operations to counter aggression, cyber, and information warfare threats. Reinforces counterterrorism and unconventional warfare capabilities: Authorizes U.S. Special Operations Command programs and activities, including ongoing efforts in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Eastern Europe; Extends critical authorities for special operations and personnel recovery programs; Improves congressional oversight of ongoing counterterrorism and sensitive activities; Fully authorizes and strengthens Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (CWMD) programs and activities, including the creation of a Principal Advisor for CWMD to more effectively oversee policies and activities within the Department. ###
04.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the recognition by The Lugar Center that she is among the most bipartisan Members of Congress for her record in 2017: “I thank The Lugar Center for this important recognition,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “During my time in Congress, I have been pleased to lead on many bipartisan reforms, on issues ranging from education, to healthcare, to growing our economy. I pledged to be an independent voice for the North Country and will continue building on this record of bipartisanship to deliver results for the families I am proud to represent.” Background: In the 2017 House scorecard Congresswoman Stefanik ranked 27th out of 438 Members, placing her in the top 7 percent of House lawmakers. Last Congress, Congresswoman Stefanik was ranked number 31 by the Lugar Center. Read more here. ###
04.24.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, issued the following statement after the announcement of over $25 million in opioid response grants for New York that was created by the 21st Century Cures Act that she supported and was signed into law: “The 21st Century Cures Act was a major reform to our healthcare system that I was pleased to support last Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Far too many across our district have been touched by opioid addiction and this funding is an important part of our approach to tackle this epidemic. As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I will continue to work across the aisle on this ongoing fight.” Background: The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released the second year of funding for the Opioid State Targeted Response (STR) grants to 57 states and territories totaling $485 million to continue the Nation’s efforts to combat the opioid crisis. SRT grants were created by the 21st Century Cures Act, which was signed into law in 2016. The FY2018 Omnibus appropriated an additional $1 billion to the Opioid State Targeted Response grants. The allocations for that additional funding will be announced in September 2018. ###
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “Barbara Bush was an unrelenting force for decency, community, and patriotism. As First Lady and throughout her life she was a champion for many issues, including literacy. She taught us to never stop believing in causes larger than ourselves, and that legacy will live on forever in the hearts of the many lives she changed. The prayers of our entire nation are with the Bush family at this difficult time.” ###
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Claudia Tenney (NY-22) John Faso (NY-19), Chris Collins (NY-27), John Katko (NY-24), Peter King (NY-2), Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Dan Donovan (NY-11) and Tom Reed (NY-23) urged U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to consider the inclusion of critical dairy-related priorities in any renegotiation of North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Recently, Canada revised its milk classification system, leading to changes in the dairy market that have disproportionately hurt farmers in New York State. The Class 7 National Ingredients Strategy distorts the global market and has increased dumping of excess milk production that has driven global milk prices down to artificially low levels. This, coupled with restricted access to Canada’s dairy market, has hit dairy farmers in New York particularly hard. "North Country dairy farmers are struggling and it is critical that we level the playing field in NAFTA renegotiations," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "President Trump has shown his commitment to fighting unfair trade practices and my colleagues and I are asking the Administration to stand up for our dairy farmers here. Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy, and I will continue to work in Congress on policies that support our farmers." “Unfair trade deals have disadvantaged family farmers, a driving force behind local economies across the nation. In an already fragile market, our struggling dairy farmers cannot afford the continuation of Class 7 Milk Pricing and continued Canadian dumping, which harms Upstate farmer’s ability to manufacture and export our dairy products. When given a level playing field, New York farmers can produce and sell the highest quality dairy in the world,” said Congresswoman Claudia Tenney. “As the NAFTA negotiations are finalized, I encourage Ambassador Lighthizer to defend our dairy farmers and hold Canada accountable. It’s necessary for the continued survival of our long tradition of dairy farming.” “Upstate dairy farmers are in the midst of a prolonged economic crisis as market conditions, trade barriers, and ineffective government policies have created a perfect storm of damaging factors,” said Congressman Faso. “Canada is among our largest trading partners and we should work to protect that relationship. Unfortunately, their Class 7 pricing scheme has placed our local dairy farmers at a substantial disadvantage. As the administration finalizes NAFTA negotiations, I hope Ambassador Lighthizer will continue to fight for our dairy farmers who are integral to Upstate New York.” “Canada’s unfair trade practices have sent New York’s dairy farms on a downward spiral, having serious impacts on our local economies and the hardworking families who run these farms. Agriculture is vital to our state’s economy and we must do everything we can to fight for trade deals that are good for the United States. It is so important for this issue to be front and center during NAFTA negotiations and I urge Robert Lighthizer to stand up for our nation’s dairy farms and hold Canada accountable,” said Congressman Collins. Read the full letter here ###
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, on Tax Day, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “I am pleased to support this package of reforms to protect taxpayers in our district and across the nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As technology continues to advance, people’s personal information can be at an increased risk. It is critical that we update our laws and regulations to better protect our hardworking constituents, and I will continue to work in Congress on commonsense reforms like these.” According to the IRS, “This filing season, the Internal Revenue Service has seen a steep upswing in the number of reported thefts of taxpayer data from tax practitioner offices. Seventy-five firms reported taxpayer data thefts in January and February, nearly a 60 percent increase from the same time last year. Much of this increase follows one scam, the erroneous refund scheme, that affected thousands of taxpayers and numerous practitioners earlier this filing season.” The legislation Congresswoman Stefanik is supporting today and the rest of the week includes: Justice for Victims of IRS Scams and Identity Theft Act of 2018 (H.R. 2905) Summary: Requires the attorney general and treasury secretary to create and submit reports to Congress about identity theft across the United States specifically about tax scams. Taxpayer First Act (H.R. 5444) Summary: This will help modernize the IRS for the first time since 1998 by bringing service into the 21st century, increasing sensible enforcement of IRS rules, and protecting taxpayers from identify theft. 21st Century IRS Act (H.R. 5445) Summary: The Ways and Means Committee unanimously approved this bill, which will dramatically refocus the IRS back to its “taxpayer first” mission. This bill will take steps to provide greater accountability, transparency, and security for IRS information technology. Protecting Children from Identity Theft Act (H.R. 5192). Summary: About 1.3 million kids have their identity stolen annually and 50% of those children are younger than six years old. This bill directs the Social Security Administration to confirm whether or not a name, date of birth, and Social Security Number are being used. To provide for a single point of contact at the Internal Revenue Service for the taxpayers who are victims of tax-related identity theft (H.R. 5439) Summary: The bill requires the Secretary (or his delegate) to establish procedures to implement a single point of contact for taxpayers adversely affected by identity theft. The single point of contact consists of a team or subset of specifically trained employees who can work across functions to resolve problems for the victim and who are accountable for handling the case to completion. Social Security Child Protection Act of 2018 (H.R. 1512) Summary: Requires the Social Security Administration to issue a new Social Security number to a child under the age of 14 when that child’s parent or guardian has provided sufficient evidence, as determined by the Commissioner and under penalty of perjury, that the child’s Social Security card has been stolen while being mailed to his or her address. Moving Americans Privacy Protection Act (H.R. 4403) Summary: Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 and requires CBP to ensure that certain personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers and passport numbers, is removed from any manifest that is signed, produced, delivered, or electronically transmitted to CBP before the manifest is made available to the public. To require the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a program for the issuance of identity protection personal identification numbers (H.R. 5437) Summary: This bill requires the Secretary of the Treasury, within five years, to establish a program to issue Identity Protection Personal Identification Numbers to any individual requesting one to assist the Secretary in verifying the individual’s true identity. ###
04.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement: “Last night, U.S. and allied forces launched precision air strikes against the Syrian regime in response to its use of chemical weapons against innocent civilians. This kind of brutality cannot stand, and I support the President’s decision to respond with the support of our allies in the UK and France. “There are many questions that remain about our policy in Syria, and I will continue working with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to conduct rigorous oversight of our strategy. I pray for the safety of our brave men and women serving in uniform as they carry out this mission.” ###
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored H.R. 2556, the CONNECT for Health Act. This bipartisan legislation would expand the use of telehealth and remote patient monitoring (RPM) services in Medicare, toward the goal of cost savings and increasing quality care. “Rural communities like ours will greatly benefit from enhanced use of telehealth services, and I am pleased to support this bipartisan legislation that will help our seniors access the care they need,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the author of the CHIME Act and a strong advocate for Community Health Centers, I am pleased this legislation is supported by Hudson Headwaters and the National Association of Community Health Centers. I will continue to work in Congress to increase access to affordable, high quality health care in our district.” Click here to read the bill text. ###
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement on the release of the draft Farm Bill: “Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy, and as Congress debates and amends the upcoming Farm Bill, I want to ensure the priorities of our farmers are included,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The just released draft text of the Farm Bill will be made available in my newsletter and online on the House Agriculture website, and I encourage farmers in our district to review it and weigh in with our office. Thank you to our North Country farmers for all you do to keep food on our tables.” H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, can be read here. Constituents can contact our offices with their thoughts here. Congresswoman Stefanik recently supported passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act that included several reforms to help our North Country dairy farmers, and also hosted a dairy roundtable at Jefferson Community College. Yesterday she spoke on the House floor in support of dairy farmers. ###
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor on the urgent need to support our North Country dairy farmers who are struggling right now. Congresswoman Stefanik recently supported passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act that included several reforms to help our North Country dairy farmers, and also hosted a dairy roundtable at Jefferson Community College. Click here for video of the Congresswoman’s floor remarks; a transcript is below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring attention to the urgent crisis facing dairy farmers across my district. The low price of milk, labor shortages and dwindling access to new markets are just some of the many challenges faced by the hardworking family farms in my district. Additionally, the Margin Protection Program has failed North Country dairy farmers by providing little-to-no return on our farmers’ buy-in. Recently I was pleased to support the Bipartisan Budget Act, which contained many urgent reforms to this program, such as: Raising catastrophic coverage for the first tier of covered production for all farmers; Reducing premium rates to help farmers buy coverage; And waiving costly administrative fees for underserved farms. Agriculture is truly the backbone of our North Country economy, and generations of farmers have helped make dairy production a way of life for many families that I represent. In Congress, I’ll keep fighting every day to strengthen our family farms for future generations. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Caucus, cosponsored three pieces of bipartisan legislation to better support our EMS technicians. “We are grateful for our North Country EMS practitioners and the lifesaving services they provide to our community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The services provided by EMS are a critical component of our healthcare policy, and this legislative package better supports these men and women so they can continue to serve our community. I am pleased to sign on to these important bills and thank all our EMS practitioners for the important work they do.” There are approximately 21,000 EMS agencies nationwide and 826,000 EMTs and paramedics. EMS responds to approximately 37 million calls annually. The bills Rep. Stefanik cosponsored today include: H.R.1876 - Good Samaritan Health Professionals Act of 2017 H.R.1445 - Veterans Reimbursement for Emergency Ambulance Services Act or the VREASA H.R.5429 - SIREN Act of 2018 ###
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after President Trump signed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act into law – a major reform to our nation’s trafficking laws. Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored this bipartisan legislation to combat the pervasive issue of online sex trafficking, and take action against websites that allow their platforms to be abused by traffickers. “The heinous crime of human trafficking is far too prevalent and we must continue to aggressively combat this epidemic,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Sex trafficking claims innocent people far closer to home than we even realize, with New York ranking as the 4th worst state for human trafficking. This legislation is a critical step in combating this urgent human rights crisis, sending a strong message of zero tolerance to those who provide a safe-haven for human traffickers online. “I applaud President Trump for signing this bipartisan legislation into law, and I’m grateful to my House and Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle for recognizing this tragedy and taking action to bring perpetrators to justice. I will continue working to ensure that victims of human trafficking have the recovery resources they need and the legal recourse they deserve.” H.R. 1865 – the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, provides new tools to law enforcement to prosecute criminal actor websites. Specifically, the bill creates a maximum of 10-year imprisonment for the use or intent to use an interstate facility to promote or facilitate prostitution. Additionally, the legislation creates a new recovery mechanism to be utilized by trafficking victims for seeking damages from their traffickers. To read more about this legislation, click here. ###
04.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issue the following statement on Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement that he will not seek reelection: "One of the greatest honors of my professional life has been working with and learning from Paul Ryan. He is humble, honest, and thoughtful. He did not seek the job of Speaker, but he stepped up to serve during a challenging time in our Nation's history. Paul has challenged us all to raise our gaze, and he is deeply respected on both sides of the aisle because of his principles and commitment to the American Idea. "I have been proud to work with Paul on a wide range of issues that have helped the North Country - from passing the 21st Century Cures Act, to rebuilding our national defense, to combating the opioid epidemic, to reforming the VA to better serve our veterans. "Since I have known Paul, he has been a true friend and mentor, and I will greatly miss serving with him in Congress. As we make this transition in the House, I will continue to put the North Country first and ensure we have a seat at the table for the major issues facing our nation." ###
04.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Congressman Ralph Abraham (R-LA-05) sent a letter to Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) requesting that the Farm Bill require the USDA to certify to Congress that the Margin Protection Program’s (MPP) feed cost calculations accurately reflect individual farmers’ actual feed costs. Right now, the MPP’s inaccurate feed pricing mechanisms put North Country dairy at a competitive disadvantage. “Taking care of the needs of our North Country dairy farmers is a top priority of mine in the upcoming Farm Bill, and I am pleased to co-lead this effort to reform the MPP program,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Dairy farmers in our district are hurting right now. I recently helped pass major reforms to the MPP program as part of the Bipartisan Budget Act, but we must continue to work to ensure this program works as intended for our farmers.” The Honorable Mike Conaway Chairman House Committee on Agriculture 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Conaway: Thank you for your diligent efforts to move the 2018 Farm Bill through Congress this year. As you know, commodity prices in rural America are not what they were when the current Farm Bill was enacted in early 2014, and dairy prices are no exception. Our dairy producers continue to endure a sustained period of low milk prices, compounded by trade challenges and capacity issues here at home. With that in mind, we are eager to work with you to move a Farm Bill that will reform dairy policy, including the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy), which by all accounts has not provided an effective safety net for our producers up to this point. We are grateful that several key policy reforms were enacted in February, but we believe that more must be done in the upcoming Farm Bill. In many dairy producing areas, cost of feed is a significant challenge for producers. In the states we represent, we continually hear from dairy farmers that the feed cost component of MPP-Dairy does not accurately reflect the costs they pay to feed corn, soybean meal, and alfalfa hay to their cows. Therefore, we ask that the Farm Bill require the U.S. Department of Agriculture to analyze and then report back to us in Congress whether the feed cost calculations under MPP-Dairy reflect dairy farmers’ actual feed costs. This information will enable us to consider further reforms to dairy policy, with an eye towards crafting a program that reflects the specific challenges facing our farmers. We thank you for your significant efforts and we look forward to working closely with you to advance the 2018 Farm Bill. Sincerely, ###
04.06.2018	Moriah, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted her 17th Coffee with Your Congresswoman event at the Moriah Volunteer Fire Department. This event was an open, public forum attended by about 60 people. Congresswoman Stefanik took over 25 questions on issues ranging from the economy, to gun violence, to healthcare. “I thank the many families that came out today to discuss the important issues before Congress and facing our community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I would also like to thank Sun Community News for moderating our discussion, and the Moriah Volunteer Fire Department for hosting us. This was the 17th Coffee with Your Congresswoman event I’ve hosted in our district, in addition to over 700 constituent outreach events and 14 teletownhalls. Today was a great opportunity to hear directly from the constituents I’m proud to serve, and I look forward to continuing my strong record of constituent outreach.” ###
04.05.2018	South Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted her 16th Coffee with Your Congresswoman event at the Moreau Community Center in South Glens Falls. This event was an open, public forum attended by almost 200 people. Congresswoman Stefanik took over 30 questions on on a wide range of issues, from healthcare to gun violence to agriculture. “I thank the many families that came out today to discuss the important issues before Congress and facing our community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This was the 16th Coffee with Your Congresswoman event I’ve hosted in our district, in addition to over 700 constituent outreach events and 14 teletownhalls. Today was a great opportunity to hear directly from the constituents I’m proud to serve, and I look forward to continuing my strong record of outreach tomorrow in Moriah. Tomorrow, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik will be hosting her 17th Coffee with Your Congresswoman event in Moriah, New York. Details can be found here. ###
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led a North Country delegation to Ottawa, Ontario to meet with Canadian officials and business leaders. In the meetings, the leaders discussed the latest on NAFTA negotiations, U.S.-Canadian preclearance, dairy issues, and various other topics of interest to the North Country. The group also met with Ambassador Kelly Craft. “In the North Country, our relationship with Canada is critical to the economic success of our region, and I was grateful for the opportunity today to strengthen our bilateral relationship,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “It was clear from our meetings that both sides have a clear interest in partnering together to benefit our region, and these meetings were a great opportunity to share ideas and make plans. As a Member of the Northern Border Caucus, I will continue to work in Congress to protect and strengthen our relationship with Canada.” Background: Attendees with Rep. Stefanik’s delegation included: Garry Douglas, President and CEO, North Country Chamber of Commerce Rep. Bill Owens, former Member of Congress; Partner, Stafford Owens Law Firm James Phillips, President and CEO, Canadian/American Border Trade Alliance Paul Grasso, President and CEO, The Development Corporation, Clinton County, N.Y. Russ Kinyon, Economic Development Director, Franklin County, N.Y. Jeremy Evans, Executive Director, Franklin County Industrial Development Agency, Franklin County, N.Y. Patrick Kelly, CEO, St. Lawrence County Industrial Development Agency, St. Lawrence County, N.Y. David Zembiec, Deputy CEO, Jefferson County Industrial Development Agency, Jefferson County, N.Y. Madeline Donovan, District Director, Rep. Elise Stefanik's Office Ken Crist - Economic Specialist, U.S. Embassy Sara Wilshaw - Director General, North America Advocacy and Commercial Programs, Global Affairs Canada Jennifer McSporran, Mission Liaison Officer – Canada-U.S. Relations, Global Affairs Canada The group attended several meetings, including: A Briefing with Steve Verheul – Chief Trade Negotiator for NAFTA and Assistant Deputy Minister for Trade Policy; A Roundtable with Canadian Chamber of Commerce; A Meeting with Parliamentary Secretary Andrew Leslie, MP; A Meeting with the Conservative Border Caucus, chaired by MP Colin Carrie; And A Delegation Lunch with Ambassador Kraft. ###
03.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement on the news that the Trump Administration will expel dozens of Russian diplomats from the United States and close a Russian consulate in Seattle: “The United States must stand up to Russian aggression here at home, and also against our allies around the world,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This action signals that we will continue to support our NATO allies. I commend President Trump’s action and will continue my work in Congress to ensure that we remain vigilant against all Russian threats to our national security. ###
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, ahead of the March for Our Lives events taking places across the nation, Congresswoman Stefanik issued the following statement after President Trump signed into law the FY’18 Omnibus that included the Fix NICS Act and the STOP School Violence Act: “This is an important step forward as we work to end incidents of gun violence in our schools, and I thank President Trump for signing these two initiatives I cosponsored into law,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These bills will strengthen our background check system and provide resources for school security. In fact, this appropriations bill provides more than $2.3 billion in new funding to effective mental health, training, and school safety programs. I am a strong supporter of 2nd Amendment rights and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress on bipartisan solutions to help end tragic incidents of gun violence.” H.R. 4909, STOP School Violence Act, is legislation that would invest in early intervention and prevention programs to stop school violence before it happens by authorizing the Department of Justice to make grants to states for purposes of training students, school personnel, and law enforcement to identify signs of violence and intervene to prevent people from harming themselves or others; and the FIX NICS Act reauthorizes the NICS Improvement Act, increasing records submission assistance for states, and requiring federal agencies to submit annual reports and certification of compliance. Congresswoman Stefanik is also a cosponsor of legislation to ban “bump stocks” and helped pass legislation that was signed into law to reform our federal mental health system. ###
03.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) sent a letter to President Donald J. Trump inviting him to visit Fort Drum during his first term in office. Click here for a digital copy of her letter; copied below is the text. The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Our nation appreciates your steadfast support of the members of the Armed Services and their families. Under your leadership, the United States has made significant strides in strengthening our fighting force, rebuilding military readiness, and investing in our servicemembers and their families. Due to these efforts, our troops are receiving the largest pay raise in eight years. On behalf of the phenomenal men and women of the 10th Mountain Division, I would like to formally invite you to visit Fort Drum to see your dedication to strengthening our nation’s defense in action. Since the attacks on September 11, 2001, the 10th Mountain Division based at Fort Drum has been the most actively deployed division to Iraq and Afghanistan in the entire U.S. Army. Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama both made visits to the installation within the first term of their presidencies. Your visit would continue this great legacy of support for our brave men and women in uniform at Fort Drum. I look forward to hearing from you and hopefully hosting you at Fort Drum in the near future. Sincerely, Elise M. Stefanik Member of Congress ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced her support for the Omnibus Appropriations Bill that funds the government through the end of the fiscal year. “This package includes many funding priorities for our district that I have fought hard for,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I’m pleased this bill includes the added defense spending that I advocated for in the National Defense Authorization Act. I ran against the devastating effects of the budget sequester on our national defense, and this deal lifts this harmful policy so that Secretary Mattis can combat the readiness crisis and rebuild our military to defend us against 21st century threats. Critical for my support, this bill also provides the funding for the largest troop pay raise in eight years. As the home of more veterans than any district in New York State, I am also pleased this bill increases funding for our veterans by over $7 billion. “A top economic priority for our region is increasing access to rural broadband, and this bill includes over $600 million for a pilot program to expand access to this critical infrastructure. This bill includes $4.7 billion in additional funding to tackle the heroin and opioid crisis that is devastating our communities, and that I continue to work to address with my colleagues on the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force. “This legislation also includes two bills that I have worked on to combat gun violence and keep our children safe. The Fix NICS bill will strengthen our background check system and the STOP School Violence Act provides resources for school security. In fact, this appropriations bill provides more than $2.3 billion in new funding to effective mental health, training, and school safety programs. “Furthermore, as a leader in combatting Russian aggression and a Member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am pleased this bill includes funding to address election security issues. Protecting our political institutions from foreign meddling is a top concern for Congress, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on recommendations and initiatives to ensure our elections are secure. “Any legislation this broad is not perfect, but this bill addresses many priorities for our district and I urge my colleagues to support it.” This legislation also includes: $37 billion for NIH, a $3 billion increase over FY17 to fund additional research and development. $81.5 billion for the VA to provide the necessary medical care, construction, and modernization to reduce backlogs and fulfill unfunded requirements, while also increasing oversight of the VA. Nearly $1 billion for mental health programs as authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act. Reauthorizes the Brownfields Law and makes significant improvements and reforms. H-2B visas - gives DHS discretion to increase the size of the program, up to approximately double the annual cap of 66,000. $425 million for the Land Water Conservation Fund. $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. $8.399 million for the Lake Champlain Basin Program. Recognizes biomass as carbon neutral and as a renewable energy source. $1.2 billion for the Agriculture Research Service. $56 million for tree and wood pest activities through the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. ###
03.22.2018	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her House colleagues have passed the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018. This bipartisan bill would give terminally ill patients access to potentially life-saving medicine. This bill passed the House by a vote of 267-149. “This bill moves us in a direction of more compassionate, patient-centered care for those suffering from incurable disease,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Medication needs to be subjected to rigorous approval processes to ensure the public is kept safe; however, there is a delicate balance that must be met to ensure regulatory approval processes aren’t standing in between terminally ill patients and potentially lifesaving treatments. This bipartisan bill aims to give those suffering another chance.” Specifically, the bill will: Create a new alternative pathway for patients who do not qualify for a clinical trial Establish a robust informed consent process to access unapproved drugs Specify that any unapproved drug used in the new alternative pathway must have an active application and is not the subject of a clinical hold Include a sponsor and manufacturer notification to the FDA after they make an unapproved drug available to an eligible patient Guard patients from manufacturers purposefully misbranding or mislabeling drugs Provide liability protections for manufacturers, sponsors, physicians, clinical investigators, and hospitals that participate in the existing expanded access program and the new alternative pathway; unless there is reckless or willful misconduct, gross negligence, or an intentional tort Obligate sponsors and manufacturers to report adverse events to the FDA Provide certainty to manufacturers regarding how the FDA will use patient outcomes when evaluating new drug application ###
03.21.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, introduced the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence Act of 2018. This new legislation would create an independent National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence (AI). AI is the ability for computers and machines to learn, without explicitly being programed. It has been described by many as the “new electricity” since it has the potential to transform and permeate every major industry and sector. “Artificial Intelligence is a constantly developing technology that will likely touch every aspect of our lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “AI has already produced many things in use today, including web search, object recognition in photos or videos, prediction models, self-driving cars, and automated robotics. It is critical to our national security but also to the development of our broader economy that the United States becomes the global leader in further developing this cutting edge technology. This legislation I have introduced today will develop a commission to review advances in AI, identify our nation’s AI needs and make actionable recommendations of what direction we need to take. I look forward to advocating for this approach during the NDAA process this year.” Background: The National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence Act of 2018 will create an independent National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence. Specifically, the commission will: Conduct a comprehensive and national-level review of advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning, and associated technologies for the President of the United States and Congress. Address and identify the national security needs of the Nation with respect to AI, including economic risk, and other needs for the common defense of the Nation. Provide near-term actionable recommendations to the President and the Congress, including ways to more effectively organize the Federal Government for AI. Provide annual and actionable recommendations thereafter to our government through 2020. The Charter and Focus of the Commission Includes Recommendations on: Competitiveness: Competitiveness of the U.S. in Artificial Intelligence, machine learning, and associated technologies, related to national security, economic security, public-private partnerships, and investments. Technological Advantages: Means and methods for the U.S. to maintain a technological advantage in AI and associated technologies, including quantum sciences and high performance computing. Cooperation and Competition: Developments and trends in international cooperation and competition, including foreign investments in AI, machine learning, and associated technologies. Investments and Research: Means to foster greater emphasis on investments in basic and advanced research by private, public, academic and combined initiatives. Workforce and Education: Incentives to attract, recruit and retain leading talent across our Nation. International Law and Ethics: Identify and understand the risks associated with advances in AI under the law of armed conflict, international humanitarian law, escalation dynamics, and other ethical considerations related to AI, machine learning, and associated technologies. Data and Privacy: Means to establish data standards and open incentives to share data, including the development of privacy- and security-protection measures.
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), members of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018. This legislation demands greater transparency from foreign government owned media outlets in the U.S. by requiring outlets to disclose their ownership and government ties to the FCC and American people. In doing so, we can ensure there is greater visibility of the role of foreign governments in our media landscape. “This legislation is a critical initiative as we work to counter information warfare from adversarial nations, including Russia,” said Stefanik. “We must ensure transparency and public disclosure from foreign media outlets so that the American public knows where this information is coming from. As a Member of the House Intelligence Committee and the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I will continue to work to safeguard our nation from foreign threats and meddling in our political system.” “Russia attacked our democracy in 2016, France and Germany’s elections in 2017, and is already spreading disinformation ahead of our 2018 elections,” said Moulton. “Both Russia and China have dramatically expanded efforts within our country to sway public opinion, spread propaganda, and advance their own political goals. A key part of this strategy is the use of government-controlled media to sow falsehoods and spread propaganda. That’s why I am proud to introduce the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018 with Rep. Elise Stefanik, which requires media outlets to disclose their ties to foreign governments to the FCC and to the American people. This isn’t a partisan issue; it’s about our national security. We can’t be blindsided by another outlet like Russia Today spreading propaganda that undermines our democracy.” ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of her support for pro-growth policies in the first session of the 115th Congress. “I thank the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for this prestigious recognition,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Growing up in a small business family, I know that too often Washington can stand in the way of our small businesses, and I have worked in Congress to support pro-growth policies that help our businesses expand and create good paying jobs for families in our district. Economic growth and job creation is my top priority in Congress, and I will continue to be a strong advocate for our North Country small businesses.” “It’s a good time to be doing business in America, thanks to a slate of legislative accomplishments that laid the groundwork for more economic growth and job creation,” said Thomas J. Donohue, President and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “These efforts to advance commonsense, growth-oriented legislation will help Main Street American businesses thrive. We commend Congresswoman Stefanik for her commitment to promoting and protecting American free enterprise and economic prosperity.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s How They Voted scorecard. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. ###
03.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on President Trump’s announcement to combat opioid abuse and reduce drug supply and demand: “The federal government must engage in a comprehensive approach to combat the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This issue is a critical priority for our district, where far too many families have been affected. As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I’ve worked on legislation to combat this epidemic through increased education and funding and will continue to lead on this issue. The President’s plan today will address many of the factors contributing to this crisis as well as provide support for those who are suffering from addiction and their families. I commend President Trump for making this a top priority for his Administration.” In her first term, Congresswoman Stefanik worked to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. In January, Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues on the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force unveiled additions to the Task Force’s legislative agenda. And most recently, Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored the Community Action Opioid Response Act. ###
03.16.2018	Washington, DC – This morning, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) met with 10th grade students from Whitehall High School on the steps of the United States House of Representatives. The students asked questions of Congresswoman Stefanik, and then students and teachers received a tour of the United States Capitol building. “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with Whitehall High School students this morning at the U.S. Capitol,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “It is always inspiring to see the passion young people have for the legislative process. This trip was a wonderful opportunity for these high schoolers, and I look forward to their continued involvement in the political process. Thank you to the Whitehall High School staff and teachers who made it possible.” For higher quality images, email Tom Flanagin.
03.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “It is with great sadness that we have learned of the passing of my friend and colleague from New York, Louise Slaughter,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Louise has served our state for over three decades, and has been a role model to many women Members, including myself. Each year before the State of the Union, Louise proudly hosted a bipartisan reception for New York Members to help unify the delegation, and I have always felt so warmly welcomed by her and her entire staff. My thoughts and prayers are with her family during this difficult time.” ###
03.15.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored H.R. 3642, the Military Sexual Assault Empowerment (SAVE) Act. This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to establish a three-year pilot program to allow survivors of Military Sexual Trauma (MST) to seek trauma-related treatment from a properly accredited private healthcare provider of their choice. Additionally, this legislation helps identify deficiencies and vulnerabilities in the VA’s MST strategy to make necessary procedural corrections to improve the care of MST survivors. “Sexual assault in our military is inexcusable, and as we work to reduce instances of these crimes, we must also ensure that victims have the resources they need to recover,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am proud to cosponsor this legislation that helps our veterans dealing with Military Sexual Trauma pursue counseling and treatment options that work for them. Sexual assault has no place in our workforce or military, and I will continue to work in Congress to ensure that our veterans receive the support they need.” ###
03.15.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues Reps. John Faso (R-NY-19), Pete King (R-NY-02) and Claudia Tenney (R-NY-22) introduced a House Resolution recognizing and commending the hard work, dedication, determination, and commitment to excellence of Chris Mazdzer for skillfully representing the United States at three consecutive Olympic Winter Games. “As the first ever U.S. medalist in the men’s singles luge, Chris made our North Country community proud on the world stage at the 2018 Winter Games in PyeongChang,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district has a rich and unique Olympic tradition, and I was thrilled to join families across our district in cheering on Chris and all of our North Country athletes. This Resolution is a way to celebrate Chris’ achievements and to recognize our entire community for their support.” “In a sport dominated by European athletes, Chris Mazdzer has set the bar for Americans who will come after him,” said Congressman Faso. “Congratulations to Chris on his Olympic accomplishments and setting a new precedent for American athletes in the men’s luge.” “We are thankful for the support of Rep. Stefanik, and grateful for this level of recognition amongst our nation’s leadership for Chris and the efforts of USA Luge,” said Jim Leahy, CEO, USA Luge. “In all of our international competitions, especially at the Olympic Games, we are proud to represent the Stars and Stripes.” Click here for a digital copy of the House Resolution. ###
03.14.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation she cosponsored will provide grant funding for evidence-based training to prevent school violence. Included in this measure is training for local law enforcement, school staff, and students to help identify and to try to stop student violence against themselves or others. “We must do more to keep our children safe in schools, and I am pleased to support this important legislation to prevent school violence,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am a strong supporter of 2nd Amendment rights and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress on bipartisan solutions to help these tragic incidents of gun violence. I have also cosponsored legislation to ban bump stocks, voted to strengthen the National Instant Criminal Background Check System and helped pass legislation that was signed into law to reform our federal mental health system. I will continue to engage with local law enforcement departments, teachers, and school superintendents on more possible solutions to ensure safe environments for our students.” This legislation provides funding for: Evidence-based technology and equipment to improve school security, including metal detectors Development and operation of school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams Continued coordination with local law enforcement Technology and equipment to improve communication between law enforcement, students and school officials ###
03.13.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), released the following statement on the Committee's decision to conclude its bipartisan investigation into Russian active measures targeting the 2016 election: "For over a year our Committee has worked on this important, bipartisan investigation, conducting 73 witness interviews, holding nine hearings and briefings, and reviewing hundreds of thousands of documents. I believe that it is clear that Russia was intent to interfere in our 2016 election process. I have been concerned about the politicization and leaks throughout this Congressional investigation which is why I will continue to be an outspoken supporter of the Mueller investigation, which I believe is best equipped and our best hope to get to the apolitical truth. "However, with the 2018 primary elections already underway and only several months until the mid-term elections, it's important that we give the American people the information we have obtained to this point in order to protect our nation against further Russian attempts to influence our elections. Protecting our election system is a top concern and one I am deeply engaged in both on HPSCI, and in my work as Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities. "Our Committee work will now move into the next phase, which is to produce policy recommendations based on our findings. I will also continue to work with my colleagues on HPSCI and HASC in our oversight capacity to combat Russian threats against our nation." A one page overview of the status of the investigation can be found here. The bipartisan parameters of the investigation can be found here. The metrics of the investigation can be found here. ###
03.08.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the announcement by Empire State Development (ESD) that New York will participate in the Opportunity Zone program created by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Recently, Congresswoman Stefanik led a letter with Reps. Chris Collins (R-NY-27), John J. Faso (R-NY-19), and John Katko (R-NY-24) urging New York to participate in this program. “This new program will be an incredible asset to our North Country economy, and I am pleased New York will be participating,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We must work together at the federal, state and local level to ensure that the families and businesses we represent across New York receive the benefits from this new tax law that they both deserve and have earned. I look forward to working with New York officials to identify areas in our district that will be most positively impacted by the economic development and investment this program will bring, and I encourage constituents and stakeholders to reach out to my offices with their thoughts as well.” Read more about the Opportunity Zone program here. ###
03.06.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored H.R. 5124, the Community Action Opioid Response Act. This bipartisan legislation would establish the Community Action Opioid Response Grant as a competitive grant program within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), administered through the Office of Community Services. “The heroin and opioid epidemic is devastating families across our district and we must continue to fight this epidemic,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan bill would establish grants that could be accessed by Community Action Agencies to address this epidemic at the most local level – inside the communities that are being harmed. I will continue to work with my colleagues on new solutions to this problem and am pleased to cosponsor this bipartisan bill.” Background: The nation’s Community Action Agencies (CAAs) are uniquely positioned to help fight the opioid crisis and its devastating impact on low-income people. More than 1,000 of these antipoverty agencies exist nationwide and they have seen first-hand the human cost of the epidemic. CAAs are distinct from other community organizations in critical ways. They are each governed by a board that represents all sectors of the local community, including its low-income residents. They regularly conduct comprehensive community assessments to identify pressing local needs and design effective responses. They have well-established and wide-ranging networks of private and public partners, including health care providers, social service organizations, the judicial system, local governments, and thousands of local volunteers. CAAs are holistic in their approach and trusted in their communities. CAAs receive core funding from the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG), which provides flexible resources they can use to fill gaps in services and address unmet needs; their CSBG allotments also enable CAAs to access and administer other public and private resources to benefit their communities. However, the opioid epidemic is rampant – designated by the White House as a national public health emergency – and its effects are especially dire for people in poverty. CAAs are dealing with the effects of opioid addiction on individuals and families and on communities as a whole; however, the needs far outweigh the resources. Legislative Specifics: The bill would establish the Community Action Opioid Response Grant as a competitive grant program within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), administered through the Office of Community Services. Goals would be to “expand and support effective community efforts to identify and respond to the causes and consequences of opioid misuse and addiction experienced by low income individuals, families, and communities.” Community Action Agencies, designated as “eligible entities” under the Community Services Block Grant, would compete for grants of no more than $1 million and no less than $50,000 per year. Grants would be awarded for up to three years unless approved otherwise by HHS. The bill would authorize appropriations of $50 million for each of FY2018-FY2022, with up to 7% reserved for Indian tribes or tribal organizations. ###
03.06.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor in recognition of the hard work and dedication shown by North Country Olympians at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. Click here for video of her remarks; a transcript follows below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the hard work and dedication of our North Country Olympians who made history at the 2018 Winter Games in PyeongChang. The United States Women’s Bobsled team – trained in Lake Placid in my district – finished strong with an incredible silver medal win. We’re also excited for Saranac Lake’s very own Chris Mazdzer, who made Olympic history this year, taking home Team USA’s first ever medal in men’s singles luge! Chris trained tirelessly at the Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid, and I know he’s inspired the next-generation of NY-21 athletes from across our region. Chris, the North Country has been buzzing with excitement since the Winter Games began, and seeing you on the podium was an incredible moment for us all. Congratulations to Chris and to all our Olympians who showed the world just what the North Country has to offer! Thank you and I yield back. ###
03.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the news that Lake Placid was selected to host the 2023 World University Games: “With its rich Olympic history, great training climate, exceptional facilities and strong local support, there is no better place to host these games than Lake Placid,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These games will bring added tourism and commerce to our region and allow us to showcase our unique corner of the nation to an audience around the world. Today I met with our local supervisors from Essex County in my Washington office where we discussed the path forward with these games. I applaud the International University Sports Federation for this decision, and look forward to helping in any way our office can.” ###
02.28.2018	Washington, DC – Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Annie Kuster (D-NH-02) and a bipartisan group of lawmakers called on the governors of New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York to support the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC). Created by the 2008 Farm Bill, the NBRC is a Federal-State partnership that is comprised of a Federal Co-Chair and the Governors of New Hampshire, Vermont, New York, and Maine. President Trump has identified the NBRC for elimination in his budget proposal. The commission was established to organize federal funding towards specific state economic and community development projects in rural and distressed parts of the Northeast. The letter -- to Governors Chris Sununu of New Hampshire, Phil Scott of Vermont, and Andrew Cuomo of New York -- urges support of the NBRC, which between 2010 – 2017 allocated 155 awards across NH, VT, NY, and ME totaling more than $80 million. Other Members on the letter include Reps. Peter Welch (D-VT-AL), Claudia Tenney (R-NY-22), John Katko (R-NY-24), and Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH-01). “The NBRC has the important task of making federal investments in a wide range of areas that have greatly benefited rural communities along the northern border,” the Members wrote. “These grants have been utilized to expand business enterprises in rural communities, support workforce development initiatives and revitalize infrastructure along the northern border.” “Despite the success of the NBRC, President Donald J. Trump has proposed to eliminate the NBRC in his most recent budget request,” the Members continued. “We write to express our opposition to this proposal, and request your support as the Chief Executives of your states for the continued federal funding of this important Federal-State partnership.” Stefanik is an original cosponsor of the Northern Border Regional Commission Reauthorization Act of 2017, which would continue funding for the NBRC and extend its authorization for five years. The bill would also allow the NBRC to include promoting the development of renewable energy resources to meet their 40% minimum of projects, and it would permit NBRC to attract businesses from outside the United States. The full letter is available here and below. February 26, 2018 Dear Governor Sununu, Governor Scott and Governor Cuomo: As Members of Congress who represent congressional districts within the Northern Border Regional Commission’s (NBRC) territory, we write to express our strong support for this critical agency. Since its inception in 2008 through passage of the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008, the NBRC has played an important role in financing infrastructure and economic development projects in some of the Northeast’s most rural and economically distressed communities. We support continued and robust federal funding for the Commission, as it has led to job creation, leveraged important private capital for these projects, and funded initiatives that range from improving access to rural broadband, to creating affordable housing for veterans, and expanding treatment opportunities for low-income individuals struggling with substance misuse. The NBRC has the important task of making federal investments in a wide range of areas that have greatly benefited rural communities along the northern border. The focal point of the NBRC’s mission is to administer Economic and Infrastructure Development (EID) grants, which can be awarded to state governments, municipal governments, Indian tribes and non-profit organizations. These grants have been utilized to expand business enterprises in rural communities, support workforce development initiatives and revitalize infrastructure along the northern border. In addition, the NBRC can provide assistance to states in creating comprehensive economic development plans that incorporate the resources and input of local governments and the general public to identify high-need project areas. This approach has allowed the NBRC to work collaboratively with small towns and micro-target specific projects, ensuring that taxpayer dollars are being utilized effectively and responsibly. From 2010 – 2017, the NBRC has allocated 155 awards across New Hampshire, Vermont, New York, and Maine and invested over $80 million to stimulate economic growth along the northern border. Importantly, this federal funding has helped leverage over $107 million in additional capital investments that have helped these projects become a reality. Simply put, the NBRC has steered hard-working taxpayer dollars back to our states and injected critical funding into rural communities that need it the most. Despite the success of the NBRC, President Donald J. Trump has proposed to eliminate the NBRC in his most recent budget request. We write to express our opposition to this proposal, and request your support as the Chief Executives of your states for the continued federal funding of this important Federal-State partnership. We are committed to supporting rural communities in our congressional districts that have directly benefited from NBRC funding, and welcome your partnership in helping to preserve this agency so it can continue to create jobs and expand economic opportunities along the northern border. By working together, we can address the common challenges that face our states and renew our commitment to our most economically-challenged communities. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we look forward to your response. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Travis Krogman in Congresswoman Annie Kuster’s Washington office at: (202) 225-5206. Sincerely, ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and A. Donald McEachin (D-VA-04) introduced the Military Spouse Employment Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation which aims to increase resources and expand job opportunities for military spouses, who frequently face challenges as a result of their spouses’ service. Between 12 and 25 percent of military spouses are unemployed; an additional 25 percent are underemployed, working underpaying jobs or jobs that underutilize their skillset. “As the proud home of Fort Drum and the Kesselring Site, our district is home to many military spouses who make enormous sacrifices on behalf of our nation," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "Last December, I was pleased to have two pieces of legislation signed into law that would ease the burdens facing military spouses when they receive a change of station. Today I am pleased to introduce this important, bipartisan bill that seeks to address the high rates of unemployment faced by our military spouses. Military spouses serve too, and it's critical that we work to ensure these brave men and women have the jobs they need and deserve.” “Our military families make tremendous sacrifices, and we owe them our full support. This bill will lower barriers to well-paying jobs, raise awareness of valuable resources, and create new initiatives—like spouse-focused transition assistance services—to help these families thrive,” said Congressman Donald McEachin. “As the son of an Army veteran, I know first-hand the stresses and challenges that military families face. By creating new job and business opportunities, expanding access to education and workforce training, and improving access to childcare, this bill will help us correct the systematic unemployment and underemployment of military spouses. The result will be better quality of life for servicemembers and their families—and in the long run, a more ready and more capable military.” This bill has been endorsed by: The American Legion, Blue Star Families, Military Family Advisory Network, Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), and National Military Families Association. The Military Spouse Employment Act of 2018 aims to: Improve Employment Opportunities Remove barriers to well-paying jobs Encourage small businesses to hire military spouses Expand Access to Education and Training Raise awareness of existing education / training initiatives like MyCAA program Explore options for improving existing initiatives like SECO program Increase Childcare Options Seek to safely increase the number of military childcare providers Provide for assessment of whether local childcare subsidies are adequate Expand Access to Counseling and Transition Assistance Enable spouses to join transitioning servicemembers in relevant classes Provide for new spouse-focused transition assistance initiative “MOAA is grateful that Representative Stefanik, who has been a champion for military family issues, has introduced this legislation with Representative McEachin. Military spouse unemployment and underemployment remain one of the greatest challenges in retaining servicemembers and the long-term success of their families, said retired Air Force, Lt. Gen. Dana Atkins, Military Officers Association of America’s President. “In conjunction with the request from our military service chiefs requesting Governors and state legislatures take efforts to assist in "the ability of spouses to obtain jobs and sustain careers", we hope co-sponsorships for this bill come swiftly in recognition of the importance of this issue and action our federal government can take to address the problem.” Both McEachin and Stefanik, as members of the House Armed Services Committee, will fight to include language from this comprehensive bill into the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019. Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) introduced the Senate version of this bill earlier this month. ###
02.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she is cosponsoring two bills -- H.R. 4909, STOP School Violence Act of 2018 and H.R. 4811, Securing Our Schools Act of 2018 – to better protect our students in schools. Congresswoman Stefanik is also a cosponsor of the Fix NICS Act of 2017 that would improve our federal background check system, and legislation to ban “bump stocks”. “I am a strong supporter of 2nd Amendment rights and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress on bipartisan solutions to help end tragic incidents like in Parkland, Florida,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I have previously cosponsored legislation to ban bump stocks, voted to strengthen the National Instant Criminal Background Check System and helped pass legislation that was signed into law to reform our federal mental health system. These two pieces of legislation that I am supporting today are commonsense reforms to prevent gun violence in schools and better protect our children.” H.R. 4909, STOP School Violence Act of 2018, is legislation that would invest in early intervention and prevention programs to stop school violence before it happens by authorizing the Department of Justice to make grants to states for purposes of training students, school personnel, and law enforcement to identify signs of violence and intervene to prevent people from harming themselves or others; and H.R. 4811, Securing Our Schools Act of 2018 – is legislation that would allow the Attorney General to make grants to local education agencies to acquire and install devices that allow for immediate notification of emergency response personnel, law enforcement, or other appropriate officials in the case of an emergency. Emergencies would include those related to health, firearms, terrorism, natural disaster, or similar emergencies. Additionally, on Friday Congresswoman Stefanik joined a bipartisan effort to ask Speaker Ryan to bring up standalone legislation that she is cosponsoring to improve our background check system. Click here for that letter. ###
02.27.2018	Washington, DC – Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Eric Swalwell (D-CA-15) have introduced the bipartisan Expanding Wounded in Action Notification Act, a bill requiring that Members of Congress be notified whenever a constituent serving in the armed forces is seriously wounded and hospitalized while on active duty. Current law requires such notification only when a seriously wounded service member is transferred to a military hospital within the United States; this bipartisan bill would expand the requirement to include hospitalizations abroad as well. “As the proud home of Fort Drum and the 10th Mountain Division, many in our community are defending our freedoms in all parts of the world,” Stefanik said. “Under current law, Members of Congress are only notified about a combat injury to one of our constituents serving in the military if the individual is transferred to a hospital in the United States. This legislation gives us a better chance to support their families in their time of need.” “Every Member of Congress needs to know when a constituent who has put his or her life on the line for our nation is seriously wounded in action,” Swalwell said. “Our offices need this information, no matter where the service member is hospitalized, so that we can immediately reach out and do whatever we can to help meet their and their families’ needs.” ###
02.26.2018	Watertown, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 21st District. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in NY-21. “The Congressional Art Competition is an incredible opportunity for talented students across our district to showcase their artistic vision and creativity,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Each year my offices receive dozens of amazing pieces of artwork and I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions from students across the district. The winner of the Congressional Art Competition will have their artwork on display in the United States Capitol for an entire year for elected officials, dignitaries, and tourists from around the world to see.” Artwork entered in the contest must be original in execution, may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches, 4 inches in depth and cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. The artwork may be: Paintings - including oil, acrylics and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage (must be 2 dimensional) Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints Mixed Media – use of two or more mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor Computer Generated Art Photography Art submissions along with a Congressional release form must be submitted to one of Congresswoman Stefanik’s district office locations no later than April 28, 2018. Rules, guidelines, and required forms can be found here. ###
02.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, has returned from a Congressional Delegation visit to Latvia, Estonia, and the Ukraine. The seven day CODEL took place from February 17th-24th; joining Rep. Stefanik was Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD-4). “I was pleased to lead this delegation visit to meet first-hand with partner nations in the Baltics and Eastern Europe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The CODEL focused specifically on national security issues and partnership engagement activities within the areas of Information Warfare, cyber operations, irregular warfare and special operations, and Defense programs designed to strengthen partner nation and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) capabilities. “The timing of this trip was important as many of the briefings and discussions centered on countering Russian information warfare issues. Throughout the trip we emphasized the importance of the NATO Alliance and bilateral relationships, including contributions from U.S. active duty and National Guard forces from New York and Maryland. “I was pleased to have the opportunity to meet with constituents deployed in Ukraine as part of the New York National Guard, which trains at Fort Drum. I also attended briefings in Estonia where the 10th Combat Aviation Brigade has previously been deployed. “This trip was also an opportunity to visit with our proud partners in Latvia and Estonia on the eve of their 100th Anniversary of Independence as sovereign states. As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion with my colleagues on the Committee to ensure we have the resources and strategy necessary to keep our nation safe.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s Congressional Delegation Visit Included stops in: Latvia: The delegation conducted meetings and briefings with the U.S. Ambassador and Country Team at the Embassy. High level meetings and briefings were conducted at both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defense. The delegation was also received by the Speaker of the Latvian Parliament, Ms. Inara Murniece. The delegation also conducted a roundtable meeting with members of Latvian press, including blogs and think-tanks. Estonia: The delegation conducted meetings and briefings with the U.S. Ambassador and Country Team at the Embassy. The delegation met with the Senior representatives from the Estonia Ministry of Defense and Foreign Affairs. The delegation also met with the National Digital Advisor to the President and the NATO Cyber Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of Excellence (CCDCOE). The visit to CCDCOE was followed by briefing and meetings with Estonia and U.S. forces based at Amari Air Base and a briefing from the Estonian Deputy Chief of Defense (CHOD) at the Defense Force Headquarters. Ukraine: The delegation conducted meetings and briefings with the U.S. Ambassador and Country Team at the Embassy. The delegation then toured the Ukraine Center for Disease Control and Monitoring, which receives funding and technical assistance from the Defense Threat Reduction Agency to improve biosecurity and standards. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs hosted the delegation. The delegation traveled to Brovary where they were met and briefed by the Commander of Ukrainian Special Operations Forces (SOF). The final day in Ukraine was spent in Yavroriv, the largest Ukrainian training base and in the Western section of the country. While at Yavroriv, the delegation was hosted by the Ukrainian Commander of the Combined Training Center (CTC) and the Joint Multinational Training Group – Ukraine (JMTG-U), which is Commanded by members of the N.Y National Guard which trains at Fort Drum. For high quality images, please contact Tom Flanagin. ###
02.26.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) recently led a bipartisan letter with her New York colleagues in writing Lt. Gen. Samuel A. Greaves, Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in support of the construction of a third Continental U.S. interceptor site located at Fort Drum in Jefferson County, New York. Joining Rep. Stefanik on this letter were Reps. Chris Collins (R-NY-27), Dan Donovan (R-NY-11), John Faso (R-NY-18), Brian Higgins (D-NY-26), John Katko (R-NY-24), Pete King (R-NY-2) Tom Reed (R-NY-23), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY-1). Click here for a digital copy of the letter; the full text is below. Lt. Gen. Samuel A. Greaves Director, Missile Defense Agency 5700 18th Street, Bldg 245 Fort Belvoir, VA 22060-5573 Dear Lt. Gen. Greaves, In preparation for the release of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review (BMDR) and as members of the New York delegation, we write in full support of the construction of a third Continental U.S. interceptor site located at Fort Drum in Jefferson County, New York. As our adversaries rapidly increase their ballistic missile capabilities and seek to deter and constrain the United States, we believe it is critical that we continue to invest in our country’s missile defense. As the BMDR concludes, we urge MDA to recognize the strategic importance of an East Coast Missile Defense site and the economic advantage of building the site at Fort Drum. By offering an additional angle of intercept, a third Ground Based Interceptor (GBI) site located on the east coast will improve the accuracy and reliability of our continental United States missile defense systems. Another GBI site would increase the number of sensors available to track an incoming ICBM and allow for the capability to shoot the target, assess the situation, and then shoot again, if necessary. With our current defenses, both located on the west coast, the shoot-assess-shoot capability is not an option. Additionally, from an economic position, Fort Drum's existing infrastructure and community support system make it an ideal location for construction. Fort Drum's airfield, railroad line on post, and major highway near the installation can cheaply and easily handle transportation and utility needs during and after construction. With an estimated additional 1,450 potential jobs and $220 million per year in total economic value added to the region, this mission will make a positive impact on New York’s North Country. The service members of the 10th Mountain Division and their families stationed at Fort Drum have a strong history of supporting the U.S. military and will easily be able to welcome and integrate these new families into the community. In conclusion, an East Coast Missile Defense site located at Fort Drum would expand the battlespace, provide greater decision time, protect the entire continental United States, and increase the accuracy and effectiveness of our missile defense strategy. We look forward to the release of the BMDR and thank you for your leadership on this important issue. Sincerely, ###
02.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was selected as a finalist for the Congressional Management Foundation’s (CMF) Democracy Awards Program in the category of Transparency and Accountability. The Transparency and Accountability category recognizes offices that provide clear and relevant information on their work and publicly acknowledge metrics for that performance. “When I ran for Congress, I pledged to families across our district to be transparent and accountable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is a tremendous honor and recognition for our team as we continue to work our hardest to give our constituents more access to the work we do on their behalf. I thank the Congressional Management Foundation for this prestigious designation and will continue working in Congress to ensure that lawmakers are responsive, accountable, and transparent.” “As a finalist in Transparency and Accountability for a Democracy Award, Rep. Stefanik’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Rep. Stefanik has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for her constituents in New York. Rep. Stefanik and her staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work,” he said. In announcing Rep. Stefanik as a finalist for the Democracy Awards, CMF explained why the office was selected: “As the youngest member of Congress, Representative Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) believes her constituents expect her to be transparent about her work on their behalf. She and her staff meet this demand by publishing all of her legislative votes, along with explanations, on FaceBook within 24 hours; posting her calendar on her website; holding numerous district events; and sharing the House schedule on the website so constituents can share their opinions on upcoming votes. Newly registered voters are sent information on the services the office provides.” The Democracy Awards Program was launched by the Congressional Management Foundation to recognize exceptional non-legislative achievement in congressional offices. The awards are given to one Republican and one Democrat in four categories: Innovation; Transparency and Accountability; Constituent Service; and a "Life in Congress" award for workplace environment. For more information about the Congressional Management Foundation’s Democracy Awards, click here. To see the release of award winners, click here. ###
02.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led a letter with Reps. Chris Collins (R-NY-27), John J. Faso (R-NY-19), and John Katko (R-NY-24) urging Governor Andrew Cuomo to nominate Upstate communities as Opportunity Zones, a new, national community development program that was established in the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 and designed to encourage long-term investment in low-income communities across the United States. “This new program could benefit our North Country economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I urge Governor Cuomo to nominate communities in our district and work to make this new tax law as helpful as possible for families and businesses across New York.” Click here for a digital copy of the letter; the full text is below. February 16, 2018 Honorable Andrew M. Cuomo Governor of New York State NYS State Capitol Building Albany, NY 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo, We are writing with regard to Opportunity Zones, a new, national community development program that was established in the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 and designed to encourage long-term investment in low-income communities across the United States. The Opportunity Zones program provides tax incentives for financiers and venture capitalists to re-invest unrealized capital gains into “Opportunity Funds,” which will be dedicated to investing in the Opportunity Zones designated by each state. According to the Economic Innovation Group, American corporations are currently sitting on over $2 trillion in unrealized capital gains, and as you know, many of the communities in our districts are in need of investment. The Upstate economy continues to struggle with high poverty, lack of quality jobs, and slow economic growth, and it has become increasingly difficult for businesses in this region to recruit and retain workers. On February 8, 2018, the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service released guidance to implement this important provision. Given that the application deadline is quickly approaching, we strongly encourage you to nominate the Upstate communities we represent for this program. We believe it will not only benefit our constituents, but New York State as well. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, ###
02.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped pass the Bipartisan Budget Act that was signed into law by President Trump. Included in this legislation was a five-year extension of the Low-Volume Hospital (LV) and Medicare-Dependent Hospital (MDH) Programs that several hospitals in NY-21 rely on. “Hospitals across our district rely on this important funding to help ensure families across our district – especially seniors – get the care they need,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This important bill gives Alice Hyde Medical Center/UVM Health Network, Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center, Massena Memorial Hospital, Nathan-Littauer Hospital, and Adirondack Medical Center needed stability to serve families across our region. I will continue to advocate in Congress for the healthcare needs of our district.” “The Medicare Dependent Hospital and Medicare Low-Volume payment adjustment are critical lifelines for New York’s rural and small community hospitals,” said HANYS President Bea Grause. “We thank Rep. Stefanik for her strong support for extending these programs, providing much-needed certainty for hospitals that are essential to maintaining the healthcare services and economies of their communities.” “The extension of the Medicare-Dependent Hospital (MDH) program will have a significant impact on Alice Hyde Medical Center (AHMC). The change will result in over $600,000 each year returning to AHMC. As our dedicated staff work diligently to help AHMC get back on its feet, this funding is critical to their success, supporting their efforts to provide the highest quality of care to our patients. We greatly appreciate Congresswoman Stefanik’s tireless efforts to protect this program that’s so vital to the stability and sustainability of small rural hospitals like ours,” AHMC President and CEO Stephens Mundy. “Massena Memorial Hospital (MMH) is committed to meeting the health care needs of Northern St Lawrence County,” said Bob Wolleben, CEO at Massena Memorial Hospital. “In that mission, we are fortunate to have a valued legislative partner like Elise Stefanik whose effort has led to a reauthorization of the Medicare Dependent Hospital/Low Volume Adjustment program. This program is essential to MMH’s financial future and the funding she has secured helps MMH make a difference every day.” "We are thankful that the federal budget agreement includes the Medicare Low-Volume Hospital program," said Nathan Howell, President & Chief Executive Officer at Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center. "We appreciate the work of our representatives in ensuring that rural hospitals and the vital care they provide, were not forgotten. For Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center, this funding is critical. With nearly 57% of our acute patient discharges covered by Medicare, any time there are cuts we are affected. The Medicare Low-Volume Hospital program helps ensure we are able to continue to provide necessary healthcare services to our community, including renal dialysis and mental health services. It also not only helps cover the cost of hospital operations, it allows us to bring new services and providers to our community. Background: MDH Funding Included for FY-2018-2022: Nathan Littauer Hospital Fulton County $6,620,127 LV Funding Included for FY 2018-2022: Adirondack Medical Center Essex County $6,104,400 Alice Hyde Medical Center Franklin County $4,656,300 Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center St. Lawrence County $5,153,300 Massena Memorial Hospital St. Lawrence County $4,217,500 ###
02.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed the Building Blocks of STEM Act, H.R. 3397. Included in this bill was legislation coauthored by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) – H.R. 3316, The Code Like a Girl Act – that creates two National Science Foundation (NSF) grants to research and fund computer science programs that encourage early childhood education in STEM for girls under the age of 11. "I'm pleased to see this legislation pass that includes language I coauthored to encourage more young girls to pursue careers in computer science," said Congresswoman Elise Stefanik. "Computer science professionals are needed in almost every industry and field, and it's critical that we ensure young women have the skills they need to pursue these exciting careers." Background: The Code Like a Girl Act was introduced by Reps. Jacky Rosen (D-NV-03) and Elise Stefanik. It would create two NSF grant programs to encourage young girls to pursue computer science: one to understand what contributes to the participation of young girls under 11 in STEM and computer science, and one to develop and evaluate interventions in Pre-K and elementary school classrooms, with the goal of increasing girls’ participation. ###
02.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the Bipartisan Budget Act, critical legislation to set spending priorities for the next two years. Included in this package were several reforms that will benefit North Country Dairy farmers. “I was pleased to support these reforms that will help small dairy farmers across our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “When I travel the district speaking with North Country farmers, one of the most frequent concerns I hear about is with the flawed Margin Protection Program and how it gives our dairy producers very little return on their investment. These reforms will strengthen this program for our North Country dairy producers. As we begin working on the next Farm Bill, I will continue to strongly advocate for the needs of our farmers.” Agriculture program reforms in the Bipartisan Budget Act include: Margin Protection Program: Raising the catastrophic coverage level from $4.00 to $5.00 for the first tier of covered production for all dairy farmers. Adjusting the first tier of covered production to include every dairy farmer’s first five million pounds of annual milk production instead of four million pounds, in response to growth across the country. Reducing premium rates, effective immediately, for every producer’s first five million pounds of production, to better enable dairy farmers to afford higher levels of coverage that will provide more useful protection against low margins. Modifying the margin calculation to a monthly (from bi-monthly) basis, to make the program more accurate and responsive to producers in down months. Waiving the annual $100 administrative fees for underserved farmers. Directing USDA to immediately reopen the program signup for 2018. Additional reforms: The agreement removed the $20 million annual cap on all livestock insurance, including the Livestock Gross Margin-Dairy program. This will allow USDA more flexibility to develop additional risk management tools for dairy producers that can complement MPP. ###
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) supported House passage of the Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act – bipartisan legislation that would direct the Federal Communications Commission to establish basic quality standards for providers that transmit voice calls to help ensure businesses, families, and emergency responders can count on phone calls being completed. “I was pleased to support this bipartisan legislation to improve call connectivity in rural communities like ours,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Families, businesses and first responders in our district need reliable phone service and these reforms will help build our local infrastructure and help us compete in a 21st century economy.” Read more about this legislation here. ###
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced her support for the Bipartisan Budget Act, critical legislation to adjust spending caps to more adequately fund our military and other priorities: “I will be supporting the bipartisan deal that increases total defense spending so that we can give our men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This agreement also funds a well-deserved pay raise for our brave servicemembers -- including the soldiers of the 10th Mountain Division -- that I advocated for in the National Defense Authorization Act. I ran against the devastating effects of the budget sequester on our national defense, and this deal lifts this harmful policy so that Secretary Mattis can combat the readiness crisis and rebuild our military to defend us against 21st century threats. “This deal contains funding for many other important initiatives for our district, including infrastructure and rural broadband. This deal includes necessary reforms that will help small dairy farmers across our district and it includes additional funding to combat the opioid crisis and support mental health programs, two critical issues affecting families across the North Country. I have been an outspoken advocate for Community Health Centers and for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and this bipartisan deal provides funding to support these critical programs. I am also pleased this includes additional funding to support the life-saving research at NIH as well as to reduce the VA healthcare maintenance backlog. Additionally, this agreement gives needed aid to communities hit by hurricanes in Puerto Rico, Florida, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Texas, and the wildfires in California.” ###
02.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released a video message cheering on Team USA in the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. The Congresswoman touched on the North Country’s unique Olympic history and the great number of athletes competing from our region. Click here to watch her video message. ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 4924 – legislation to amend the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 to reform procedures related to the initiation, investigation, and resolution of legislative branch claims alleging that employing offices have violated the rights and protections provided to their employees, including protections against sexual harassment. This legislation includes a provision authored by Reps. Pete Olson (R-TX-22) and Elise Stefanik to ensure victims of harassment on Capitol Hill continue to receive just compensation for their suffering, but at the hands of their accusers, not at taxpayer expense. Specifically, this provision will require Members found guilty of harassment to reimbursement the Treasury for settlements paid out to victims. Furthermore, if a Member leaves office and fails to reimburse the Treasury, their federal retirement account, also known as a Thrift Savings Account, can be taken to pay back the American people. "Taxpayers should not be forced to foot the bill for lawmakers' inappropriate behavior," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "Our provision in this bill addresses the recent and shocking reports of abuse by some on Capitol Hill, and it protects hard earned taxpayer dollars. I was pleased to join my colleagues to pass mandatory sexual harassment training for the House of Representatives, and this legislation is one more important step to protecting our workspaces from abuse. I thank Congressman Olson for his leadership on this effort and thank my colleagues for passing this bill today.” ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted a rally and press conference at the U.S. Capitol with lawmakers and dozens of advocates from around the country in support of extending funding for Community Health Centers. Community Health Center funding expired on September 30, 2017. Click here to watch Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks. Congresswoman Stefanik is the author of the CHIME Act -- bipartisan legislation to extend the Community Health Centers Fund for five years. This legislation has 218 bipartisan cosponsors. On Friday, Congresswoman Stefanik led a group of 105 Republican House Members in a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan, urging him to include Community Health Center funding in any legislation that will be passing Congress and sent to the President. Following this effort, it was announced that the government funding bill being considered in the House today will include a two-year extension of Community Health Center Funding. “At Hudson Headwaters Health Network, we take pride in delivering affordable, accessible and high-quality health care to all patients in Glens Falls and the surrounding regions. Without CHCF, we would have a much steeper hill to climb to ensure all of our patients have access to care, regardless of their economic means,” said Dr. Tucker Slingerland, chief executive officer of Hudson Headwaters. “We support the work Congresswoman Stefanik has done on this issue and are hopeful community health center funding is restored to contribute to the overall health of the communities we serve and beyond.” In New York’s 21st District, Community Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters Health Network, North Country Family Health Center, and the Community Health Center of the North Country serve over 95,000 patients. ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led a group of 105 Republican House Members in a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan, urging him to include Community Health Center funding in any legislation that will be passing Congress and sent to the President. Community Health Center funding expired on September 30, 2017. “In my district alone, Community Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters Health Network, North Country Family Health Center, and the Community Health Center of the North Country serve over 95,000 patients,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “It is critical this funding be extended to serve the needs of communities across our nation, and I thank my colleagues for joining me on this effort.” Congresswoman Stefanik is the author of the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017 – bipartisan legislation to extend the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) for five years. Click here for a digital copy of the lawmakers’ letter or read the text below. February 2, 2018 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker United States House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, We write to express our serious concerns over the expiration of the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF), and to urge you to include a reauthorization of the fund as part of the next moving piece of legislation to be signed into law. We know you are a strong supporter of community health centers and we share your concern about the disruptions they are currently facing as a result of going over the so-called “funding cliff” at the end of September 2017. Community health centers across the United States have delivered affordable, accessible, and quality primary health care to patients, regardless of their ability to pay, for more than 50 years. They serve more than 27 million individuals in almost 10,000 urban and rural communities by caring for the whole person, bringing together medical and behavioral health with pharmacy services. As part of this work, they provide preventive care and cancer screenings, treat chronic conditions, and are on the forefront of helping fight the opioid epidemic. They also serve our nation’s veterans, providing care to over 330,000 veterans last year alone. The CHCF accounts for 70 percent of community health centers’ federal grant funding and the lapse in reauthorization has led community health centers across the country to consider or begin taking steps to reduce their services, jeopardizing the care of some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has estimated that without reauthorized funding, approximately 2,800 health center sites would close, costing more than 50,000 jobs and endangering the health care of about 9 million patients. The Community Health Center program is a worthwhile federal investment we can all be proud of. Thank you for your efforts to ensure sustainable and reliable funding for this vital program so community health centers can continue to provide high quality, affordable care to those who need it most. Sincerely, ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Intelligence Committee, commented on the public release of the Majority Memo. Congresswoman Stefanik supported public release of the memo in a Committee vote. She also supported releasing the Schiff/minority memo to the full House for review before moving to release that document publicly as well, which is the same process that the Majority/Republican memo has undergone. Congresswoman Stefanik will vote to support public release of the Schiff/minority memo after her colleagues in the House have reviewed it. “I am a strong proponent of transparency and believe that the public has a right to know about potential FISA abuses that are outlined in this document,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “My colleagues and I have handled this memo in accordance with all House and Committee rules, and there is no information in this memo that would jeopardize national security. “The House Intelligence Committee plays a vital role for oversight of the Intelligence Community. This memo is not intended to undermine the Special Counsel, whose investigation I have consistently supported. My hope is that transparent and public release of this information will help inform the public about abuses that have occurred, and will spur needed reform and accountability so that similar abuses will not occur under any administration, Democrat or Republican.” ###
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Reps. Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), and Bruce Westerman (R-AR) introduced the Keeping Our Commitment to Ending Veteran Homelessness Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation would reauthorize several key programs that provide outreach and services to homeless veterans across the country. The bill would renew eight U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Labor programs that will begin to expire on September 30, 2018 without Congressional action. “Our veterans risk their lives to serve their nation and protect our way of life,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “More veterans live in our Congressional district than any other district in New York State, and this critical legislation will ensure they have access to housing and financial assistance. This legislation also offers support for those veterans suffering from mental illness. I’m proud to work on behalf of our veterans on this bipartisan initiative and urge my colleagues to support those who have defended our nation.” “Nevada’s veterans have put their lives on the line to protect this nation, and it is our responsibility to support them when they finish their service,” said Congresswoman Rosen. “This bipartisan legislation will help prevent veterans from becoming homeless and ensure those living on the streets get the support they need to get back on their feet. This is the least we can do for the brave women and men who have sacrificed so much to keep us safe, and we must renew these critical programs.” “No American—and especially no military veteran—should have to live on the streets,” said Congresswoman Murphy. “On any given night, there are over 40,000 homeless veterans in the United States. Ending veteran homelessness requires serious and sustained efforts. Men and women who wore the uniform have earned our support, especially when they are down on their luck. I’m proud to join Reps. Rosen, Stefanik and Westerman in introducing this bipartisan bill to authorize funding for federal initiatives that address the root causes of veteran homelessness and empower these American heroes to get back on their feet.” “The men and women who serve in uniform are a cut above the rest,” said Congressman Bruce Westerman. “For this reason, the American people owe a debt of gratitude to our American military heroes. But it is more than a simple ‘Thank you.’ We must provide the tools necessary for our veterans to reintegrate into society and if they fall on hard times, the tools to get back on their feet. That is why I am proud to sponsor this bill which aims to end veteran homelessness.” BACKGROUND: This bill reauthorizes the following programs: Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program: Provides services to veterans including outreach, assistance in interview preparation, job search, job training, and follow-up assistance after placement. Homeless Women Veterans and Homeless Veterans with Children Reintegration Program: Provides job training, counseling, placement services, and child care services to expedite the reintegration of homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children back into the labor force. Mental Healthcare for Homeless Veterans: Conducts outreach to homeless veterans, provides care and treatment for medical, psychiatric, and substance use disorders, and refers veterans for supportive services. Referral and Counseling Services for Certain Veterans at Risk of Homelessness: Provides counseling with respect to job training, and in the case of placement, housing, healthcare, and other benefits to assist veterans in the transition from institutional living. Supportive Services for Veteran Families: Funds grants for supportive services to assist very low-income veterans and their families who are either residing in permanent housing or transitioning from homelessness. Housing Assistance for Homeless Veterans: Authorizes the VA to sell, lease, lease with the option to buy, or donate properties to nonprofit organizations and state government agencies that will use the property as homeless shelters for veterans and their families. Grants and Per Diem (GPD) Homeless Veterans with Special Needs: Allows VA to award grants to community-based agencies to create transitional housing programs and offer per diem payments. GPD Special Needs funding assists with operating costs of services for special need groups such as women, chronically mentally ill, and those with minor dependents. Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans: Provides advice to the VA secretary on benefits and services the VA gives to homeless veterans. ###
01.31.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the announcement by Governor Cuomo of $103.5 million in state, federal and private funding to increase access to broadband internet: “Broadband internet is critical to succeeding in a 21st century economy and I applaud this announcement to ensure families across our district have access to this needed resource,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Increasing access to broadband will increase commerce in our region and expand educational opportunities for our children. We must continue to work together at the local, state, and federal level to ensure North Country families have the resources they need.” Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced legislation in the House to increase access to rural broadband: House Members Reintroduce Bipartisan Legislation to Make Funding Available for Rural Broadband Projects Stefanik Reintroduces Broadband Legislation for Farmers ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Tonight, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) attended President Trump’s State of the Union address with her guest, Sarah Pratt of South Glens Falls. She released the following statement afterwards: “Tonight I had the honor of hosting Sarah Pratt of South Glens Falls as my guest for President Trump’s State of the Union Address. Sarah’s father, State Trooper Tim Pratt, is a local hero who tragically lost his life in the line of duty. “During my time in office, I have worked very closely with our law enforcement community and I know the sacrifices they make each and every day to keep us safe. These sacrifices are not just made by the law enforcement officials themselves, but also by their families who support their loved ones who are in harm’s way. “Over the past year under President Trump, our economy has grown stronger, we have made significant progress to help our veterans, and we are beginning to rebuild our national defense that was gutted under the previous administration. Tonight President Trump presented his vision for our country and addressed many policy areas that I look forward to working with him on. “I remain committed to growing our North Country economy and am excited to work on the President’s plan to further develop and improve our infrastructure. A 21stCentury infrastructure includes access to broadband internet for our rural communities, and I continue to work to increase access to this critical resource in our district. Access to broadband means greater economic and educational opportunities for families in our district. “The opioid crisis is devastating families across our region, and I was pleased the President addressed it tonight. As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I continue to work with my colleagues to increase awareness and educate the public, support those who are suffering, and lead commonsense legislative solutions to keep opioid addiction under control. I recently joined my colleagues to unveil our task force’s 2018 legislative agenda, and I look forward to partnering with the Trump Administration to bring relief from this tragic epidemic. “I plan to work closely with the Administration this spring on the upcoming Farm Bill. I was honored to host Secretary Sonny Perdue in our district in November. It’s critical that the priorities of farmers across our district are included in this Farm Bill, such as fixing the broken Margin Protection Program. Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy and I will continue to support our farmers in Congress. “The President also spoke strongly about the need to rebuild our national defense. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and the Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I look forward to working with the Administration to reduce the threats posed by our adversaries around the globe. We must continue to develop our technologies, build our military readiness, and give our troops the resources they need to keep us safe. “There are still many challenges facing our nation. I will continue to work my hardest on behalf of families across New York’s 21st District.” ###
01.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass S. 534 – the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act. This bipartisan legislation extends the mandatory reporting requirements of child abuse to national governing bodies, like USA Gymnastics, and affiliated amateur sports organizations, to ensure that reports are immediately made to local or federal law enforcement authorities. “This bipartisan legislation will help protect our athletes from the heinous crime of sexual assault,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Sadly, we have seen many recent reports of unacceptable abuse faced by our nation’s athletes. By enhancing reporting requirements for child abuse, we can help ensure our athletes don’t have their dreams stolen by sexual predators.” Background According to reports, over the past 20 years, at least 368 victims, many of whom were young athletes, were subjected to sexual abuse by coaches, doctors or other adults affiliated with USA Gymnastics. Although USA Gymnastics received reports of abuse, victims claimed that USA Gymnastics allowed the abuse allegations, including complaints made against coaches who trained and abused young athletes in multiple states, to remain dormant. [1] On January 24, 2018, Dr. Larry Nassar was sentenced to 175 years in prison for sexually assaulting numerous amateur gymnasts, including gymnasts training at the renowned Karolyi Ranch, for over 15 years. His accusers number over 160. S. 534 requires national governing bodies, like USA Gymnastics, to report to law enforcement agencies on such criminal activity. ###
01.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that her guest at the 2018 State of the Union address will be Sarah Pratt of South Glens Falls, NY. Each year, Members of Congress are permitted one guest to attend the President’s address. “Our law enforcement families make incredible sacrifices each day on behalf of our communities,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am humbled by the opportunity to host Sarah in our nation’s Capital and know that she will greatly enjoy the opportunity to hear the President address the nation.” In 2016, Sarah’s father, State Trooper Timothy Pratt of South Glens Falls, lost his life in the line of duty. ###
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) will support the government funding bill that just passed the Senate. Congresswoman Stefanik also supported the House passed funding bill last Thursday that would have prevented the government shutdown if it had not been blocked in the Senate. “I oppose government shutdowns and have consistently voted to keep the government open since I’ve been in office,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “My constituents and Americans across the country deserve better than this kind of political brinksmanship. While I am pleased that Senate Democrats are ending their government shutdown, I hope in the future we can resolve the pressing issues before Congress without holding government funding hostage. “I am also very pleased that we are passing a critical six-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program that 21,000 children in my district rely on for their healthcare needs." ###
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored the Pay Our Protectors Not Our Politicians Act -- legislation that would require the military and individuals performing national security activities within the Department of Homeland Security continue to receive pay—and prohibit Members of Congress from receiving a paycheck— during a government shutdown. It also would ensure that death benefits are paid to troops’ families who fall in the line of duty. “I oppose government shutdowns and urge Senate Democrats to end this shutdown immediately,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In the meantime, it is unacceptable to allow our troops and national security personnel to forego their pay while those in the Senate responsible for this shutdown receive theirs. I have asked for my pay to be withheld until this shutdown ends and urge my colleagues to put support this important bill to ensure our heroes receive their pay.” Under current law, if the government shuts down active-duty troops and other personnel essential for national security would be required to show up for duty, but they would not get paid. Payments for death benefits to families of military members killed in the line of duty would also not be allowed to be made until the shutdown came to an end. Text of this legislation is attached. Last night, Senate Democrats blocked a bill that would have kept the government open and funded. Click here for Congresswoman Stefanik’s full statement on the shutdown. ###
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement: “I oppose government shutdowns and while in Congress have consistently voted to keep the government open. During this temporary shutdown, I will continue working my hardest to serve you and my office will remain open to serve the needs of my constituents. “Last night, Senate Democrats blocked a bill that would have kept the government open and funded. This bill also included a needed six-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program that low income children in our district rely on. “This is inexcusable. Our men and women in uniform and countless families who rely on federal government services deserve better than this. “I will continue working my hardest to resolve this impasse and implore Senators Schumer and Gillibrand to end this shutdown and reopen the government immediately. “In the meantime, I am cosponsoring legislation introduced by my colleague Congresswoman McSally that will ensure our troops and national security personnel are paid.” Congresswoman Stefanik voted in support of the House passed Continuing Resolution that funded our government and extended CHIP for six years. Additionally, she helped the House pass a longer-term appropriations bill last Fall that the Senate has yet to take up. ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) sent a letter to President Trump urging him to recognize climate change as a national security threat to the United States. The letter, which was signed by a bipartisan group of 104 additional lawmakers, was sent in response to the President’s recently released National Security Strategy, which omitted any mention of climate change. This is in contrast with the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act that the President signed last month that includes language authored by Langevin explicitly recognizing this threat to our national security. “It is imperative that President Trump include climate change as part of his National Security Strategy,” said Congressman Langevin. “As our military leaders around the globe see the effects a changing climate is already having on our mission resiliency, it is critical that we address this challenge head on. Congress took a monumental step in recognizing the threats climate change pose to our national security when the NDAA was passed and signed into law. I hope the President will reconsider this omission and join national defense and intelligence leaders in recognizing that climate security is national security.” “Climate change poses serious concerns for our national security and for political instability around the globe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is a concern I share with many of our nation’s top national defense experts, including Secretary Mattis. As a Member of the Climate Solutions Caucus and the author of the House Republican Climate Resolution, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure the threats posed by climate change are being addressed at the federal level.” “We have heard from scientists, military leaders, and civilian personnel who believe that climate change is indeed a direct threat to America’s national security and to the stability of the world at large,” the lawmakers wrote in their letter transmitted to the President. “As global temperatures become more volatile, sea levels rise, and landscapes change, our military installations and our communities are increasingly at risk of devastation. It is imperative that the United States addresses this growing geopolitical threat.” The National Security Strategy is a report to Congress required by the Goldwater-Nicholas Act that outlines the Administration’s goals and objectives for securing the United States. During consideration of the FY18 NDAA, 46 Republicans joined 188 Democrats in voting to preserve the Langevin provision expressing the sense of Congress that “climate change is a direct threat to the national security of the United States.” The provision directs the Secretary of Defense to provide an assessment of and recommendations to mitigate vulnerabilities to the top 10 most threatened military installations in each service. It also requires the Secretary to address combatant commander requirements resulting from climate change over the next 20 years. The required report must be submitted to Congress before the end of this year. A copy of the letter can be found here. Cosigners of the letter include Representatives: Jim Langevin (D-RI), Elise M. Stefanik (R-NY), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Val Butler Demings (D-FL), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Jim Costa (D-CA), Ryan A. Costello (R-PA), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Susan Davis (D-CA), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Charles W. Dent (R-PA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), John J. Faso (R-NY), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), William R. Keating (D-MA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Ruben J. Kihuen (D-NV), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Daniel W. Lipinski (D-IL), Frank A. LoBiondo (R-NJ), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Richard F. Nolan (D-MN), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), David Price (D-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Darren Soto (D-FL), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), John Yarmuth (D-KY). ###
01.11.2018	U.S. Reps. Brian Higgins (NY-26) and Elise Stefanik (NY-21) announced opposition to the January 9, 2018 preliminary decision by the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose tariffs on paper commonly used in the print industry. Higgins and Stefanik are particularly concerned the measure will lead to added costs for consumers and potential job cuts for employees of large and small newspaper and book publishers across New York State and the nation. On August 9, 2017, North Pacific Paper Company brought a petition before the Commerce Department’s International Trade Administration (ITA) alleging paper manufactured in Canada is priced in a way that cuts into their business. The Commerce Department’s preliminary decision calls for the imposition of tariffs of up to 10% on the import of uncoated groundwood paper from Canada. This type of paper is used for standard newsprint, bright newsprint, book publishing and other purposes. It is estimated that the newspaper and commercial printing industry supports approximately 600,000 American jobs. “The proposed duties would cause undue burden, destabilizing the industry, forcing increases in subscription rates for consumers and reducing jobs in an area already stretched thin,” said Congressman Higgins, a member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and Co-Chair of the Northern Border Caucus. “Furthermore, local journalism is the core of our communities’ access to information about government, the economy and community activities; it should not be infringed upon by the claims of a single U.S. producer.” “Our North Country economy relies on strong trade with our Canadian neighbors and these proposed duties would harm the many businesses that rely on these paper products,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “My district is home to a thriving local press corps that would be unfairly burdened by these costs, harming local journalism and the families across my district that rely on these important organizations.” Over 1,100 local publications nationwide and 38 publications in New York State, in a letter to the Commerce Secretary wrote: “Facing increased costs of newsprint across all suppliers, many small-town papers will be at risk of failing. To survive, some newspapers may resort to increasing print subscription prices, which would only exacerbate the severe challenges facing print newspapers.” Prior to this week’s decision, Congressman Higgins wrote to the Commerce Secretary pointing out, “While there are many legitimate instances where U.S. industry needs to be protected from foreign producers – this is not one of them. The petitioner’s charge is in fact opposed by the American Forest and Paper Association, which represents the broader U.S. paper industry.” In Rep. Higgins’ Western New York community The Buffalo News, Buffalo Business First and Niagara Gazette are among the publications that are impacted by the decision. In a bipartisan letter, Congresswoman Stefanik, and 35 additional members of Congress, also urged to Commerce Department to “carefully investigate the issue, and consider the negative impact that any trade remedy would have on the U.S. newspaper and commercial printing industries, as well as the overall U.S. paper manufacturing industry.” Papers in Rep. Stefanik’s district that may be impacted include: the Adirondack Daily Enterprise, the Daily Courier-Observer, the Plattsburgh Press Republican, The Herkimer Times Telegram, The Ogdensburg Journal, The Leader Herald, The Malone Telegram, The Post-Star, The Saratogian, the Troy Record, the Watertown Daily Times, the Adirondack Journal – Elizabethtown, the Sun Community News, the St. Lawrence Plaindealer, The Adirondack Express – Old Forge, The Lake Placid News – Lake Placid, and the Times of Ti. The Commerce Department is scheduled to announce its final determination in this matter on or around May 22, 2018. -30-
01.11.2018	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that Plattsburgh International Airport will be offering express service to Dulles Airport through the Essential Air Service: “This is tremendous news for the growing Plattsburgh region and a great example of local officials partnering with the federal government to develop our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Essential Air Service is a critical program for rural areas like ours and I’ve been proud to advocate on its behalf in Congress. With Plattsburgh Airport expanding service to Dulles, our region will be connected to more commercial opportunities and tourism in our area will be expanded.” ###
01.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) joined her colleagues on the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force at a Press Conference on Capitol Hill to unveil additions to the Task Force’s legislative agenda. “Like my colleagues here today, I’ve seen firsthand the devastating effects that the heroin and opioid epidemic has had in my district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This crisis is devastating families across our communities. In 2013, an estimated 1.9 million Americans were addicted to or abusing opioid based prescription pain killers. And over the last fifteen years, heroin related deaths have quadrupled. “In my district, there are amazing organizations doing their part to combat this heinous epidemic, such as SPARCC -- Substance Abuse Prevention and Recovery of Clinton County; Citizen Advocates; the Essex County Heroin and Opioid Prevention Coalition; St. Joseph’s Addiction Treatment & Recovery Center in Saranac Lake; Hometowns vs. Heroin Addiction in Warren and Washington Counties; and the Alliance for Better Communities in Jefferson County, among others. “As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I was pleased to help pass the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act last Congress to provide more resources for our communities. But there is much more work to be done and I’m proud to stand here side by side with my colleagues to unveil this updated legislative agenda.” The legislation unveiled today that Congresswoman Stefanik is cosponsoring includes: 1. H.R. 3692 - Addiction Treatment Access Improvement Act: would expand access to medication-assisted treatment for vulnerable populations such as pregnant and postpartum women by expanding the list of providers eligible to prescribe buprenorphine, an office-based form of medication-assisted treatment, to include clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse midwives, and certified registered nurse anesthetists. 2. H.R. 982 - TREAT Act: Would end the IMD exclusion for individuals who are incarcerated, allowing Medicaid to reimburse for desperately-needed substance abuse treatment services furnished to them. 3. H.R. 2147 - Veterans Treatment Court Improvement Act: Would authorize $5.5m/annum 2017-2027 to VA Secretary to hire 50 additional Veteran’s Justice Outreach Specialists to work with vets in veterans treatment courts. 4. H.R. 4075 - Improve Addiction Education Act: Directs the Health Resources and Service Administration (HRSA) to work with stakeholders in the medical education accreditation community to develop guidelines for the content and certification of courses that address the topic of addiction management/medicine. 5. H.R. 3964 - Opioid Addiction Prevention Act: Requires practitioners applying for DEA licenses to prescribed controlled substances to certify they will only prescribe in keeping with current best practice guidelines. 6. H.R. 3528 - Every Prescription Conveyed Securely Act: Starting in 2020, requires all prescriptions for controlled substances through Medicare Part D to be transmitted electronically. Most illegally-obtained opioids are obtained through doctor shopping, forged prescriptions, and/or theft. Requiring e-prescribing can help combat all three methods of illegally obtaining opioids. 7. H.R. 4236 - MONITOR Act: Would require states receiving funds through the 21st Century Cures Act for Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), to certify that their program meets specific requirements. 8. H.R. 3566 - Addiction Recovery for Rural Communities Act: Modifies three USDA Rural Development programs to give priority to projects related to substance abuse treatment. Click here for more information about these bills. ###
01.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) memorialized late Lewis County Legislator Rocky Fawcett from the House Floor. Mr. Fawcett, who represented District 9 on the Lewis County Board of Legislators, passed away on New Year’s Day. A copy the Congresswoman’s remarks in the Congressional Record will be presented to Mr. Fawcett’s wife, Mary. Click here for a video of Congresswoman Stefanik’s Speech; a full transcript can be found below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in memory of Lewis County Legislator Rocky Fawcett. Rocky was a dedicated public servant who never stopped believing in the potential of Lewis County. Rocky was involved in many local causes and organizations such as the Cornell Cooperative Extension, the Lewis County Chamber of Commerce, and the Lewis County Development Corporation. To all who knew him, Rocky was intelligent, driven, and deeply devoted to public service. Simply put: Rocky Fawcett set the gold standard for what it means to be a legislator. Rocky was a dear friend and always greeted me with a huge smile and a hug during my many constituent outreach events throughout Lewis County. I invite you to join me in keeping his wife, Mary, and his family in your thoughts and prayers. May we continue to honor his memory by being passionate advocates for our communities, in Lewis County and beyond. Thank you and I yield back. ###
01.09.2018	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.Res. 676 – a resolution supporting the rights of the people of Iran to free expression, condemning the Iranian regime for its crackdown on legitimate protests. "The recent demonstrations in Iran mark an important moment for everyone who hopes to see a free Iran," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "The Resolution passed out of the House today demonstrates our support for free expression by the Iranian people as they stand up to this rogue regime." ###
01.09.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) spoke on the House Floor about the important results achieved in Congress on behalf of New York’s 21st District in 2017. Click here for video of her speech; a full transcript is provided below. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to take a moment today to highlight the real results we have achieved on behalf of North Country families in this Congress. In 2017, we worked on many important initiatives to grow the North Country economy, support our veterans and military families, strengthen our local healthcare system, and improve education. In fact, last year alone, the House of Representatives passed more than 470 bills and resolutions, 90 percent of which are bipartisan. In Congress, I focused on important legislation to grow our local economy. I recently introduced two bills that will increase access to rural broadband and help our North Country farmers bring their production into the 21st century. I also helped the House pass legislation to strengthen Career and Technical Education programs. This bipartisan bill updates federal career and technical education policies to help more students gain the skills they need to compete for in-demand jobs. I’ve also introduced bipartisan legislation to boost North Country tourism by extending the time Canadian visitors can spend each year in the United States. We’ve also made significant strides when it comes to education. For the past three years I’ve worked to ensure that our students have the educational opportunities to achieve their limitless potential. In my first year in Congress, I introduced a bill to expand Pell grant access so that students can access this critical financial aid resource during summer months. I was pleased to see my initiative for year-round Pell signed into law this past May, meaning students and families in our district now have another important tool to achieve their higher education dreams. As the proud representative of Fort Drum and the Navy Nuclear Site at Kesselring, my district is home to thousands of military families that make incredible sacrifices serving our nation. In 2017, I was pleased to have a bill I authored pass the House to help military spouses. This legislation eliminates a loophole that requires military spouses to establish residency every time their servicemember receives a new assignment. I also introduced two bills to help military spouses that were signed into law in December. The first is the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act which increases professional license portability. This bill provides a reimbursement for licensing fees of up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station. And the second is the Military Residency Choice Act which allows spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as their servicemember spouse for voting and tax purposes. New York’s 21st district is the proud home of more veterans than any other district in New York State. And my district offices have been hard at work on their behalf, helping to recover over $2.25 million in hard earned VA benefits for our veterans. Congress also passed an expansion of the GI Bill education benefits that lifts the expiration on when they can be used, giving veterans more flexibility to attend higher education institutions. And last summer, Congress passed the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, which President Trump signed into law. This important law makes it easier to terminate failing VA employees and provides stronger protections to whistleblowers who raise the alarm over waitlists and medical malpractice. No veteran deserves to be denied care, and this law brings needed accountability to the VA. Healthcare is another issue that I hear about frequently when I speak with families and businesses across my district, especially ensuring our rural communities have the access that they need. In September, I introduced the CHIME Act, a bipartisan bill to extend Community Health Center funding for five years. Federally Qualified Community Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters, North Country Family Health, and the Community Health Center of the North Country provide over 95,000 people in my district with critical healthcare and preventative services. I’m pleased that this bill has over 200 cosponsors. And this overwhelming bipartisan support for the CHIME Act was instrumental in the House passing legislation to extend Community Health Center funding for two years. I’ve also been a strong supporter of CHIP and voted to pass a five-year reauthorization in the House in November. And while we work to have long-term solutions for these two programs signed into law, I was pleased to pass a critical extension of them in December. Mr. Speaker, last year was a busy year working hard to grow our North Country economy, increase access to education, and serve our brave veterans and much more. I’m honored every day to serve New York’s 21st District in Congress and look forward to continuing to work my hardest in 2018. Thank you and I yield back. ###
01.09.2018	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding President Trump’s executive order to “use all viable tools” to accelerate the deployment and adoption of affordable and reliable broadband connectivity in rural America. “As a Member of the Rural Broadband Caucus and the proud representative of New York’s 21st District, I commend the President for making rural broadband a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Increasing access to rural broadband is a major priority for our region that will help grow our economy and increase access to educational opportunities. Specifically, I know increasing access to broadband internet for our farmers will help them bring their operations into the 21st Century. In Congress, I have been pleased to lead on two major legislative initiatives to increase access to rural broadband and I look forward to partnering with the Trump Administration on this important effort.” Background: House Members Reintroduce Bipartisan Legislation to Make Funding Available for Rural Broadband Projects Stefanik Reintroduces Broadband Legislation for Farmers ###
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON – On December 22, 2017, U.S. Congressman David G. Valadao (CA-21), Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21) and a bipartisan group of their colleagues sent a letter to Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan urging the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act as soon as possible. In January, Congressman Valadao introduced H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act to grant presumptive Agent Orange exposure status to U.S. service members who served in the territorial seas of Vietnam during the Vietnam War. Congresswoman Stefanik is an original cosponsor of this legislation. This would enable eligible veterans to receive expedited consideration for Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits if they suffer from any of the diseases the U.S. Government has linked to Agent Orange. "Our district is home to more veterans than any district in New York State, and our offices know firsthand the frustrations that the Blue Water Vets are facing trying to get the benefits they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our brave veterans served heroically and we should never leave them behind. This legislation would ensure our Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans receive the benefits they are entitled to, and I urge Speaker Ryan and House Leadership to bring this bill up for a vote without delay.” Congressman David G. Valadao stated, “I am proud of the work that Congress has achieved under Speaker Ryan’s leadership and know he is a steadfast champion of veterans throughout our country. While I understand it is time to get our fiscal house in order, we must not balance our budget on the backs of America’s heroes." He continued, "I respectfully urge the Speaker to bring this legislation to the Floor so that we may provide this population of veterans the benefits and healthcare they have earned before it is too late." Currently, H.R. 299 has been cosponsored by 321 Members of Congress, nearly three fourths of the U.S. House of Representatives, and has received the support of almost every single veteran’s service organization. The complete text of the letter can be found here. Background During the Vietnam War, more than 20 million gallons of the herbicide “Agent Orange” were sprayed to remove jungle foliage. A toxic chemical in the herbicide has since been linked to devastating health effects, including non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (NHL), various cancers, Type II Diabetes, and Parkinson’s disease. The Agent Orange Act of 1991 (AOA) empowered the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to declare certain illnesses “presumptive” to exposure to Agent Orange and enabled veterans to receive disability compensation for these related conditions. However, in 2002, the VA stopped giving benefits to blue water veterans and limited the scope of the AOA to only those veterans who could provide proof of “boots on the ground” in Vietnam. As a result, veterans who served in the waters off of the Vietnamese coast or in bays and harbors were required to file individual claims to restore their benefits, which have then been decided on a case-by-case basis. Key Provisions: • This bill restores the presumptive coverage for those who served in the territorial seas of Vietnam that existed prior to 2002 and lifts the burden from the individual veteran to prove direct exposure to Agent Orange. • The presumption currently exists for veterans who served on land and inland waterways, and therefore the bill places Navy personnel on the same playing field as those who served in country. • The legislation would also reduce backlogged VA claims for veterans who are suffering from diseases the U.S. government has linked to Agent Orange, therefore reducing the overall VA backlog. More information about H.R. 299, including a summary of the legislation and bill text, can be found here. ###
12.21.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the Continuing Resolution to fund the government through January 19th and H.R. 4667 – the Emergency Disaster Aid Package. “This funding measure allows the government to continue its operations through the holidays as we finalize a longer term spending plan,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I’m pleased this included important extensions for the Children’s Health Insurance Program and for Community Health Center funding that I’ve fought to protect. We also passed legislation to provide needed disaster relief for the devastation caused by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, as well as the California wildfires. As the full funding bill is negotiated and written, I will continue fighting for North Country priorities.” Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues in the House passed an appropriations package for the full year this past September. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik was instrumental in the House passing a long-term CHIP reauthorization in November that included a two year extension of funding for Community Health Centers. ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Pete Olson (R-TX) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) have introduced legislation to ensure victims of harassment on Capitol Hill continue to receive just compensation for their suffering, but at the hands of their accusers, not at taxpayer expense. Olson and Stefanik introduced H.R. 4690, the Responsible Settlements for Victims and Taxpayers Act, which will require Members found guilty of harassment to reimbursement the Treasury for settlements paid out to victims. Furthermore, if a Member leaves office and fails to reimburse the Treasury, their federal retirement account, also known as a Thrift Savings Account, can be taken to pay back the American people. Rep. Pete Olson said, “Recent reports of harassment coming out of Capitol Hill are disgusting and wrong on every level. The notion that any claims of harassment have been settled at taxpayer expense is simply indefensible. As we look to right this wrong, I have concerns with any colleagues seeking the easy way out by resigning and thinking this action gets them off the hook. That’s why not only does this bill require members to reimburse the Treasury for payments to victims, but also provides a mechanism for reimbursement should anyone leave office. The wonderful staffers who come to Capitol Hill to serve the American people deserve a safe work environment. If that safety is breached, they deserve compensation from the person who harms them, not the American taxpayers. I thank my colleague Elise Stefanik for joining me in this effort and hope we can get this bill to the House floor for consideration as soon as possible.” "Taxpayers should not be forced to foot the bill for lawmakers' inappropriate behavior," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "This commonsense legislation addresses the recent and shocking reports of abuse by some on Capitol Hill, and it protects hard earned taxpayer dollars. I was pleased to join my colleagues recently to pass mandatory sexual harassment training for the House of Representatives, and this bill is one more important step to protecting our workspaces from abuse. I thank Congressman Olson for leading this effort." Highlights of the Bill: H.R. 4690 amends the Congressional Accountability Act to require Members of Congress to reimburse the U.S. Treasury for settlements paid in connection with violations of sexual harassment committed personally by Members of Congress. The bill also allows use of Thrift Savings Plan agency contributions to a Member as a source of reimbursement if a Member or Senator has not met the requirements of repayment within 180 days of the settlement agreement. Text of the bill can be found here. ###
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the U.S. Economic Development Administration ‘s (EDA) announcement that the Lake Champlain-Lake George Regional Planning Board will receive a $70,000 EDA Planning Investment award. This award will support the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy for the areas under the jurisdiction of the Lake Champlain-Lake George Regional Planning Board. "This important funding will help foster public and private partnerships to support economic development in our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This funding will go a long way toward developing our local workforce, promoting conservation, and improving our infrastructure. I thank the EDA for making this funding a priority.” Additional information on this award from the EDA: City/County, State: Lake George/Warren County, New York U.S. Congressional District 21 EDA Investment Amount: $70,000 Total Project Cost: $140,000 Anticipated Impact/Outcome: Establishes an economic development planning framework, process, and strategy that supports private capital investment and job creation in the region. Description: This EDA planning investment supports the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the region served by the Lake Champlain-Lake George Regional Planning Board, which comprises the counties of Clinton, Essex, Hamilton, Warren, and Washington. The CEDS process is designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. Should you have any questions, please contact EDA at (202) 482-2900. ###
12.18.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 3759 – the RAISE Family Caregivers Act. This bipartisan legislation she cosponsored would direct the Department of Health and Human Services to develop a strategy for supporting the vital work of our country’s family caregivers. This legislation is supported by the AARP. “In our district and in communities across our nation, family caregivers devote their lives to giving their loved ones the best possible healthcare,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Family Caregivers raise the standards of living for seniors and those who are suffering, and we owe them our gratitude. I’m proud to support this important, bipartisan legislation that will help better support our nation’s family caregivers.” Click here for bill text. Congresswoman Stefanik is also the author of the Support Our Military Caregivers Act. ###
12.18.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Claudia Tenney (NY-22), John Katko (NY-24), Chris Collins (NY-27) and John Faso (NY-19) called on House Leadership to include language in the continuing resolution critical to protecting rural hospitals in Upstate New York. The proposed legislative text would fix an error the Medicare contractor for New York and New England made when determining a Medicare payment adjustment called the Volume Decrease Adjustment (VDA). This error has forced 16 small, rural hospitals to repay over $15 million with a punitive interest rate of over 9 percent. “This ‘clawback’ threatens the financial stability of New York’s Sole Community Hospitals and Medicare Dependent Hospitals,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These are important providers in rural communities like ours that provide care for seniors, the sick and the most vulnerable. It’s important to rural hospitals in our region that this issue is addressed in any government funding measure.” “Rural hospitals across Upstate New York depend on VDA to ensure continued fiscal stability and operation. Small hospitals like Cortland Regional Medical Center, Rome Memorial Hospital and UHS Chenango Memorial Hospital provide exceptional healthcare to those who need it the most in our rural communities. Congress must fix this error to protect our rural providers. I’ll continue to work alongside my colleagues in Upstate New York to secure the inclusion of this important language,” said Congresswoman Tenney. “Rural hospitals in Auburn and Oswego provide critical care to individuals and families in our community. The financial impacts of volume decrease adjustments would be devastating to these hospitals. It is crucial that Congress prevent these potential cuts and I will continue to fight alongside my New York colleagues to have this addressed in upcoming legislation,” said Congressman Katko. “We must do all we can to help hospitals in rural areas of New York keep their doors open. In an emergency, my constituents need assurance that they have a place to go for treatment. My colleagues from New York and I are pushing for this important amendment to the continuing resolution that would relieve Sole Community Hospitals and Medicare Dependent Hospitals across the state and in my district. Given the challenging nature rural hospitals face regarding patient volume, it is critical to waive repayment to ensure financial security so they can continue to serve our communities,” said Congressman Collins. "Rural hospitals are a vital source of healthcare for Upstate New Yorkers," said Congressman Faso. "Our proposed fix would ensure fairness and prevent hospitals from being forced to pay penalties for a mistake they did not make." The VDA is provided to Medicare Dependent Hospitals (MDH) and Sole Community Hospitals (SCH) that experience significant decreases in patient volume from one year to the next due to circumstances beyond their control. The adjustment is intended to cover some of the costs needed to maintain the core staff and services necessary for continued operation of the hospital during challenging times. Rural community hospitals are financially vulnerable and the VDA is critical to ensure continued operations. The 16 rural hospitals impacted by the VDA are: Adirondack Medical Center Auburn Community Hospital Aurelia Osborn Fox Memorial Hospital Carthage Area Hospital Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center Cortland Regional Medical Center Gouveneur Hospital Jones Memorial Hospital Lewis County General Hospital Massena Memorial Hospital Nathan Littauer Hospital Oswego Hospital Rome Memorial Hospital The University of Vermont Health Network-Champlain Valley Physicians Hospital UHS Chenango Memorial Hospital Wyoming County Community Health System Read the full text of the letter here. ###
12.18.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement announcing her opposition to the final tax bill that will be considered in the House tomorrow: "I support comprehensive tax reform that provides relief for families and businesses in our district. I voted against the tax bill when it first came before the House because it did not provide enough relief for New Yorkers. "While progress has been made during the conference committee, the final bill does not adequately protect the State and Local Tax deduction that so many in our district and across New York rely on. Due to Albany's failed leadership and inability to rein in spending, New York is one of the highest taxed states in the country, and families here rely on this important deduction to make ends meet. Failure to maintain SALT could lead to more families leaving our region. "I will be voting no on the final legislation and will continue to work hard to ensure that hard working families and small businesses have their priorities represented in Congress. I thank the many constituents across the district who have contacted my offices to share their opinions on this important legislation." ###
12.14.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the FCC’s net neutrality vote: “An open internet is critical to promoting prosperity and innovation with the power to enhance our lives, communities, and markets. The internet is an essential resource and Americans should have access to the information they want, not the information specific entities choose to make available. “Today’s vote means that it is now Congress’ responsibility to pass legislation that codifies in law the principles of net neutrality to preserve an open internet and ensure that companies can invest in a robust broadband infrastructure. Families in our district have very few choices in internet service providers, which is why it is critical for Congress to now pass legislation to protect the North Country’s access to online information. “Congress should begin holding hearings with internet service providers and web companies and begin the process of drafting this legislation. I will be engaging with my colleagues on the path forward and will continue to work to preserve an open, accessible internet.” ###
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce marked up and passed H.R. 4508, the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success, and Prosperity through Education Reform (PROSPER) Act – bold legislation to reauthorize and reform our federal higher education programs. “As the first member of my immediate family to graduate from college, I am committed to ensuring that our students have the chance to achieve their higher education dreams,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The status quo in higher education is failing our students and the PROSPER Act includes many needed reforms that will help students complete their college degrees. I am particularly pleased that this legislation includes my initiative to maintain access to Pell Grants year round. This has been a priority item of mine since arriving in Congress and it will ensure students have needed flexibility to access affordable education. Furthermore, students taking advantage of flexible Pell to achieve 30 credits per year will be eligible for an additional $300 Pell bonus. “This legislation keeps consumer best interests in mind and eliminates origination fees on all federal student loans, ensuring students are receiving more of the money they borrow. “This legislation also reforms work study programs to better serve Pell students, nearly doubles federal investment in work study, and removes arbitrary caps that limited where a student could work. I am pleased this legislation also addresses the opioid epidemic facing students by requiring the Secretary of Education to identify best practices for campuses. “With my support, the United States Institute of Peace (USIP) was preserved with a bipartisan amendment. The 2nd Brigade, 10th Mountain Division partnered with the USIP in Mahmoudiya, Iraq, resulting in a landmark 2007 Tribal accord resulting in a peace that lasts today. “I thank Chairwoman Foxx and my colleagues on the Committee for their work to bring our higher education system into the 21st Century and refocus federal attention to student outcomes.” Click here for video of Rep. Stefanik speaking support of the United States Institute of Peace. More information on the Prosper Act:Bill SummaryBill Text ###
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a bipartisan group of her colleagues have sent a letter to the Bicameral Tax Reform Conference Committee outlining a plan to achieve comprehensive tax reform that would protect the state and local tax deduction that is critical to taxpayers in high tax states like New York. “I remain committed to providing real tax relief for hardworking families in the North Country and am pleased to join my colleague on this effort,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This plan would retain the critical State and Local Tax Deduction as well as other key priorities, such as medical expense and student loan deductions. I urge the conferees to seriously consider this proposal and will continue to work to ensure that any final tax package achieves real relief for families and businesses in the North Country.” Congresswoman Stefanik voted against the House passed tax plan. Below is the text of the letter sent to the conferees. Click here to read the tax proposal that was also delivered. Dear Conferees: There is a bipartisan path forward to provide critical tax cuts to our constituents and businesses of all sizes. It worked decades ago for President Reagan and Speaker O'Neill, when a plan for a simpler tax system was signed into law with support from both parties. We, the undersigned Members of Congress, write to express our support for the enclosed Gottheimer-Lance Tax Cut Plan, which preserves the state and local tax (SALT) deduction in its entirety, along with several other important provisions like lowering the corporate and pass-through rates and retaining the medical expense and student loan interest deduction, while substantially reducing the impact of tax reform on the deficit. States that will be hit hardest by the proposed House and Senate plans send disproportionately more revenue to the Federal Treasury than they receive in return. We cannot accept a tax plan that raises taxes on our constituents and businesses. Many of our colleagues have called for tax reform not to pick winners and losers among businesses and industries. We agree and believe that sentiment should be extended not to pick winner and loser states. As written, both bills clearly favor and hurt certain states. The Gottheimer-Lance Tax Cut Plan addresses these concerns by retaining the current SALT and mortgage interest deductions in their entirety, while protecting tax cuts for businesses of all sizes and key development mechanisms like private activity bonds. Enclosed is a copy of the bipartisan tax cut plan we support. We appreciate your review and consideration of our proposal. Sincerely, ###
12.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that the U.S./Canadian preclearance agreement has been passed and signed into law by the Canadian Government. “This is great news for U.S.-Canadian relations and for our North Country community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was proud to help write the Promoting Travel, Commerce and National Security Act that passed Congress and was signed by President Obama last December. This legislation solidifies the U.S. Canadian preclearance agreement that will increase commerce with between our two nations, increase border security, and help provide expedited screening for Amtrak passengers prior to traveling. This process will allow for an easier and accelerated trip while ensuring necessary protections for our national security. “I will continue working closely with our Canadian neighbors to strengthen our unique relationship and increase economic opportunity in our region.” Background: Stefanik Speaks in Support of Canadian Preclearance Legislation as it Passes House ###
12.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report into law, which included three bills authored by Rep. Elise Stefanik. “The federal government has no greater role than providing for our national defense, and I am pleased that this critical, bipartisan national security legislation was signed into law today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The FY18 NDAA contains many important provisions I was proud to support, including the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years. I am also pleased that my legislation -- the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act and the Military Family Stability Act – was included and will now become law, helping to ease the burdens facing our military families. This important bill also includes legislation I authored to better protect our nation against cyber threats and attacks on our critical infrastructure.” For more information on these bills and other NDAA provisions Congresswoman Stefanik fought to have included, click here. ###
12.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 4392, legislation to block a rule put forth by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that would make significant cuts to the 340B drug program. “Rural communities like ours have been well served by this important program that provides access to discounted drugs and lifesaving services,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Cuts to this program would jeopardize access to affordable healthcare for many families in our district. I am pleased to join my colleagues on this effort and will continue to work in Congress to ensure rural communities like ours have access to the healthcare we need.” Background: The CMS’ hospital outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS) final rule for calendar year 2018 includes a significant reimbursement cut for 340B drugs. Specifically, the final rule slashes Medicare payments for “separately payable” 340B drugs from ASP +6% to ASP -22.5% -- a severe blow that directly harms safety net hospitals and undermines the ability of covered entities to provide essential health care services for their communities. H.R. 4392 would block the final rule’s 340B cut. The bill states that the final CMS regulation “shall have no force or effect.” In October, Congresswoman Stefanik wrote to CMS in support of the 340B drug program. ###
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 38 – the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act. This legislation she cosponsored provides concealed carry reciprocity for individuals with valid state issued permits, or for residents of states with a right to constitutional concealed carry. The legislation also included the Fix NICS Act (National Instant Criminal Background Check System) to improve the ability of law enforcement entities to identify individuals who cannot legally purchase a firearm. “Our 2nd Amendment rights don’t disappear when we cross state lines,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The bill passed out of the House today protects law-abiding citizens’ Constitutional rights and also strengthens our criminal background check system to help keep firearms out of the hands of criminals. I was pleased to help the House pass this important 2nd Amendment bill today and hope the Senate acts swiftly to send it to the President’s desk.” H.R. 38 - Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act (text) Provides concealed carry reciprocity for individuals with valid state issued permits, or for residents of states with a right to constitutional concealed carry. Retains private individual and state or local government ability to restrict the possession of concealed firearms on certain property. Clarifies that federal law enforcement officers, including retired and off-duty officers, are not subject to gun restrictions in federally-defined school zones. Fix NICS Act (National Instant Criminal Background Check System) (text) Requires federal agencies to make annual reports and certification of compliance and provides penalties for failing to comply. Reauthorizes the NICS Improvement Act and increases records submissions assistance for states. ###
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL-17) and US Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) stood with former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson and a bipartisan group of Members of Congress to announce legislation to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. The Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Harassment Act of 2017 would void forced arbitration agreements that prevent sexual harassment survivors from getting the justice they deserve. Carlson, who previously hosted “Fox & Friends,” left the network after enduring years of sexual harassment by powerful men who used forced arbitration to institutionalize protections for sexual harassers and prevent survivors from discussing their cases and taking them to trial. Today, an estimated 60 million Americans are subject to forced arbitration clauses. The bipartisan, bicameral bill that Gillibrand, Bustos, and Carlson announced would void forced arbitration agreements and allow survivors of sexual harassment or discrimination to seek justice, discuss their cases publicly, and eliminate institutional protection for harassers. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Kamala Harris (D-CA), and U.S. Representatives Walter Jones (R-NC), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) are cosponsors of Bustos and Gillibrand’s legislation. “Story after story continues to come forward detailing shocking realities about the pervasiveness of workplace sexual harassment,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I share the outrage of Americans across our nation at these revelations and commend the brave men and women who have stepped forward to shine a light on this epidemic. This bill will help protect victims by giving them the opportunity to come forward publicly and have their stories heard. And by shedding light on these crimes and their perpetrators, this bill will also help prevent these disgusting crimes from ever taking place. As policy makers, it’s time for us to join together and put an end to sexual harassment and discrimination in the workplace.” “If we truly want to end sexual harassment in the workplace, we need to eliminate the institutionalized protections that have allowed this unacceptable behavior to continue for too long,” Congresswoman Bustos said. “Whether it’s on factory floors, in office buildings or retail businesses, 60 million Americans have signed away their right to seek real justice and most don’t realize it until they try to get help. Our legislation is very straightforward and simple – if you have been subjected to sexual harassment or discrimination in the workplace, we think you - not the employer - should have the right to choose to go to court. While there are a lot of good companies that take sexual harassment seriously and work to prevent it, this legislation will help root out bad actors by preventing them from sweeping this problem under the rug.” “When a company has a forced arbitration policy, it means that if a worker is sexually harassed or sexually assaulted in the workplace, they are not allowed to go to court over it; instead, they have to go into a secret meeting with their employer and try to work out some kind of deal that really only protects the predator. They are forbidden from talking about what happened, and then they are expected to keep doing their job as if nothing happened to them. No worker should have to put up with such an unfair system,” said Senator Gillibrand. “I am proud to lead this bipartisan legislation to finally get rid of forced arbitration for sexual harassment and sexual assault in the workplace, and I urge all of my colleagues to join our effort, take this problem seriously, and support this important bipartisan bill.” “Forced arbitration is a harasser’s best friend,” said Gretchen Carlson. “It keeps harassment complaints and settlements secret. It allows harassers to stay in their jobs, even as victims are pushed out or fired. It silences other victims who may have stepped forward if they’d known. It’s time we as a nation - together - in bipartisan fashion give a voice back to victims.” Forced arbitration clauses prevent survivors of sexual harassment from discussing the nature or basis of their complaint. If an employee’s contract or employee handbook includes a forced arbitration clause, the employee is likely to have signed away his or her right to a jury trial whether or not they are aware of the clause. Employees are far more likely to win cases that go to trial than cases that go through the arbitration process. A copy of the bill text can be found here. ###
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led a bipartisan group of her New York colleagues in a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt. The lawmakers voiced their strong support for the Adirondack Lake Survey Corporation and asked the EPA work with them to protect ongoing research and monitoring in the Adirondack Park. “The Adirondack Park is an ecological treasure and it’s critical that we work to protect it for future generations to enjoy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I thank my colleagues for supporting this effort and will continue to work across the aisle to protect our North Country treasures.” “We applaud Congresswoman Stefanik and all of her colleagues for their efforts to secure federal funding for monitoring whether clean air regulations are working, and for restoring Adirondack lakes damaged by acid rain,” said Adirondack Council Executive Director William C. Janeway. “Acid rain has devastated the waters, forests, fisheries and the economy of the Adirondacks. It has harmed lakes and forests from here to Maine. All of those areas are showing signs of recovery, but the job of curbing upwind, out-of-state air pollution is far from done. Air pollution also threatens public health. Continued EPA funding for the Adirondack Lake Survey Corporation Long Term Monitoring is critical.” Lawmakers signed on to this letter include Reps. Chris Collins (R-NY-27), John Faso (R-NY-19), John Katko (R-NY-24), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY-12), Kathleen Rice (D-NY-4), Louise Slaughter (D-NY-25), and Paul Tonko (D-NY-20). The text of the letter can be found below; click here for a digital copy. The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator Environmental Protection Agency Office of the Administrator 1101A 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Administrator Pruitt, We write to you today to voice strong support for the Adirondack Lake Survey Corporation which is receiving $250,000 in funding from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for long term monitoring of water quality recovery from acid rain. The Adirondack Park is an ecological gem and contributes greatly to the culture and economy of New York State. The Park which is situated in Northern New York is located directly downwind from major Midwest coal-burning sources. Power generating facilities in the Midwest emit sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which are the major precursors of acid rain which has caused the acidification of many Adirondack lakes and ponds. Certain geologic and soil characteristics including elevated terrain, thin shallow soils, and impermeable bedrock combined with high amounts of rainfall make the Park one of the most sensitive areas to acidification in North America. Consequently, this region is a focal point for numerous scientific research efforts designed to identify the processes involved in acidification and to evaluate its effect on aquatic resources as well as the effectiveness of emissions controls. Thanks to actions taken after the enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and the invaluable work of the Adirondack Lake Survey Corporation, the Adirondacks have experienced a tremendous return to health. Trout populations are returning to once dead lakes, waters and trees are getting healthier, and the park is once again an economic engine in Northern New York. While we are all pleased to see the Park come back from the brink, work is ongoing and we risk a return to more polluted days should we turn away from this important monitoring. In particular, facilities such as the lab in Ray Brook which collect information for the Adirondack Lake Survey Corporation could close if EPA shifts the focus of the programs and grants that have provided an essential funding stream. Having seen the benefits both ecologically and economically from effective EPA sponsored research, we ask that you work with us to protect ongoing research and monitoring in the Adirondack Park so we never again return to the days of dead lakes and a dying forest. We appreciate your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ###
12.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math) Caucus, announced that Collin Bolles of Saratoga Springs has been named the winner of the 2017 NY-21 Congressional App Challenge. “I am excited to announce that Collin’s winning entry will be showcased at the U.S. Capitol for visitors from around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The North Country is home to many gifted students and I am confident that Collin’s entry will help inspire other young people in NY-21 to pursue STEAM education and careers.” Collin designed and created an application called “Parking Assistant,” which helps visitors in high-density urban regions find automobile parking, enabling local downtown businesses to benefit from increased customer volume. His winning app will not only be displayed in the U.S. Capitol building, but will also be featured on the Congressional App Challenge website. You can view a video demonstration of his app here. ###
12.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Peter Welch (D-VT) wrote a letter to Department of the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke asking to identify strategies and funding opportunities to combat the arrival of the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid in Northeastern forests. “This invasive insect threatens the health of forests in our region and it is critical that we respond quickly to its arrival in our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the Co-Chair of the Invasive Species Caucus, I will continue to work at the federal level to ensure that our natural ecosystems are protected from invasive species that threaten the health of our district’s pristine wildlife.” “Vermont’s forests are a central part of our economy, environment, and way of life,” said Congressman Welch. “Unfortunately, our trees are threatened by the spread of invasive species such as the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid. It is critical that the Department of Interior work with state and local agencies and provide the necessary resources to prevent the spread of these species and maintain the health of our forests.” Click here for a digital copy of their letter; the full text is below. The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke: We write to request your assistance and attention in addressing an issue that threatens the health of Northeastern forests, the arrival of the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid. As you know, the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid wreaks havoc on the Eastern Hemlock which is found in large quantities along the Northeast, including the Adirondack Park and southern Vermont. The ecological destruction wrought by these invasive insects not only threatens native forests but the economy of New York State and Vermont. An effective response is essential during the time immediately following detection. As you are aware, the National Invasive Species Council has identified key steps for the government to take after a new invasive species has been detected. These steps include providing technical and financial support along with additional support on the ground. We would like to know what strategies the Department has identified to combat the Hemlock Woolly Adelgid, if these strategies are being shared with officials in New York State and Vermont, and what funding opportunities are available through the Department for state and local agencies and organizations. As Representatives of states that are dependent upon healthy forest ecosystems for agriculture, energy production, sporting, and tourism, it is vital that we reign in the invasive species already in our backyard while doing what we can to prevent the spread of new invaders. We urge you to respond rapidly, deploy available resources, and work with states and local communities to prevent a widespread infestation. We thank you for your consideration of this request and look forward to working with you on issues related to invasive species moving forward. Sincerely, ###
11.30.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 3017 – the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act of 2017. The Brownfields Program provides grants, tools, and guidance to help states, communities and other stakeholders in the assessment, cleanup, and redevelopment of brownfields. “Developing brownfields sites encourages local job growth and protects the environment,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district is home to numerous brownfields sites, and my office has been pleased to help write letters of support for these local projects, including several successful grant applications for the Village of Lyons Falls. This bipartisan legislation passed out of the House today reauthorizes this important program and makes improvements aimed at allowing more brownfields sites to be cleaned and restored.” The term ‘brownfields’ refers to abandoned or closed commercial or industrial properties that may be contaminated because of their prior use and these sites often have significant redevelopment potential. Cleaning up and reinvesting in brownfields increases local tax bases, facilitates job growth, utilizes existing infrastructure, takes development pressures off of undeveloped, open land, and both improves and protects the environment. EPA estimates that there are more than 450,000 brownfields in the U.S. H.R. 3017 reauthorizes and makes improvements to the Brownfields Program. The Brownfields Program provides grants, tools, and guidance to help states, communities and other stakeholders in the assessment, cleanup, and redevelopment of brownfields Authorization for this program expired in 2006 This bill reauthorizes Brownfields Program and makes the following improvements: Creates multipurpose grants, which allow communities to use grant funds for both assessment and remediation and to clean up more than one site in a designated area Allows states and local governments to acquire abandoned or tax delinquent property that is contaminated and to clean up the property without fear of liability Clarifies when a site contaminated by petroleum may be a brownfield site Increases the limit for remediation grants under the Brownfields Program and allows recovery of limited administrative costs Expands eligibility for nonprofit organizations and for eligible entities that took title to a brownfield site prior to January 11, 2001 ###
11.29.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House of Representatives pass H.Res. 630 – legislation she cosponsored requiring each Member, officer, and employee of the House of Representatives to complete a program of training in workplace rights and responsibilities each session of each Congress. “Our nation continues to watch as shocking stories of workplace harassment come forward, and sadly the U.S. Congress has been at the forefront of many of these disturbing charges of inappropriate conduct,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I share the outrage of Americans across our nation at these revelations and commend the brave women who have stepped forward. This commonsense legislation is a needed first step as we try to ensure safe workspaces for all men and women across our nation, and I will continue working in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues to strengthen workplace protections in all fields of employment.” Congresswoman Stefanik is also a cosponsor of H.Res.604 – the CEASE Resolution, and H.R.4155 – the Congressional Sexual Harassment Training Act. ###
11.29.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House of Representatives pass H.R.2228 – the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation would help agencies improve mental health services for law enforcement officers. “Law enforcement officers across our nation risk their lives every day to keep our communities safe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Far too many of these brave men and women face mental health challenges associated with their service. This legislation would help our brave law enforcement officers have more resources for overcoming mental health challenges, and I am pleased the House passed this bill on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis.” The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 would direct the Department of Justice, Department of Defense, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to develop resources to equip local law enforcement agencies to address mental health challenges faced by officers. The bill would also make grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs, develop training for mental health providers specific to law enforcement mental health needs, and support law enforcement officers by studying the effectiveness of crisis hotlines and annual mental health checks. ###
11.20.2017	Montreal, QC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) delivered remarks to Canadian dignitaries and business leaders in Montreal at a breakfast hosted by ALENA, FCCQ, and the North Country Chamber of Commerce. Her remarks focused on her results for New York’s 21st Congressional District, the shared policy priorities between the United States and Canada, and her efforts to further strengthen the relationship between NY-21 and our neighbors to the North. “As the Representative of New York’s North Country, I was honored to attend this important event and work to strengthen our critical bilateral relationship,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As we know in my district, Canada is more than just our friends and neighbors to the North – they are our largest trading partner and Canadian businesses are major employers in our region. This day was an opportunity to speak with Canadian officials and Quebec business leaders on some of the most pressing issues facing our region and to discuss ways we can strengthen our shared interests. I thank the FCCQ and the North Country Chamber of Commerce for organizing and hosting this event, and I look forward to continuing to work together.” "Nothing is more important to the North Country economy than our relationship with Canada and fluidity at our northern border," said Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "That's why we look to the North Country's Member of Congress to play a leadership role in Washington in all cross-border matters, and we are pleased that Congresswoman Stefanik continues to advance legislation to enhance our relationship with Canada.” In Congress, Representative Stefanik has introduced important legislation to strengthen the relationship between the 21st District and our neighbors in Canada. In the 114th Congress, Representative Stefanik co-introduced H.R. 6431 – the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act. This legislation, which was signed into law by President Obama, solidifies the preclearance agreement between the U.S. and Canada and helps expedite the arrival of goods and tourists into the United States. In the 115th Congress, Representative Stefanik introduced H.R. 3513 – the Canadian Snowbird Visa Act. This legislation promotes tourism by permitting Canadians over the age of 50 who own or rent a U.S. residence to stay in the United States for an additional two months each year. Click here for text of the Canadian Snowbird Visa Act. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement announcing that she will oppose the House tax bill scheduled for consideration today: “I support comprehensive tax reform that provides tax relief to hardworking North Country families. I remain concerned about the elimination of the State and Local Tax Deduction which penalizes tax payers in high taxed states like New York. I will be voting no today to stand up for New York taxpayers in my district. “This bill highlights the failure of New York State to rein in spending, and to reduce the tax burden for all New Yorkers. “In the meantime, I will continue to work closely with my colleagues from other highly taxed states to ensure that the final tax reform package in Conference addresses these concerns and provides real tax relief for families in New York's 21st District.” ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report as it passed the House by a vote of 356-70. Congresswoman Stefanik served as a conferee on the bicameral NDAA Conference Committee. Click here or on the image above to watch her remarks on the House floor in support of this Conference Report. This legislation includes many provisions Rep. Stefanik championed during her work on the House Armed Services Committee. “I thank my colleagues on the Conference Committee and Chairmen McCain and Thornberry for their hard work on this critical national defense legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our most important job in Congress is to provide for our national defense, and this year’s NDAA is an important step in repairing the damage done to our military readiness.” “This legislation strengthens our defense capabilities and gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe. Throughout the process of writing this bill, I was pleased to ensure our district had a pivotal seat at the table as I fought for initiatives to protect and strengthen Fort Drum, increase our readiness, and help families in our district.” Stefanik Votes in Favor of Largest Pay Increase in 8 Years Congresswoman Stefanik supported a 2.4 percent pay raise for those serving in our military. “We ask so much of our brave men and women in uniform, and I was pleased to support this well-deserved pay raise for our troops. This is the largest pay raise in eight years,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Demands Transparency and Progress for Missile Defense The final conference report included language Congresswoman Stefanik introduced during committee markup that demands a full spectrum of factors be considered in the determination of a potential additional continental United States interceptor site. These include existing infrastructure at the location, economic impacts, public support, and the cost to construct and operate. The decision should be made 60 days following the release of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review. Congresswoman Stefanik added, “Increasing our missile defense capabilities is critical to securing our nation as rogue regimes like North Korea seek to do us harm. I was pleased to have language included in this bill to require the decision for the location of a future missile defense site be made transparently and in a timely manner. I remain steadfast in my belief that Fort Drum would make an ideal site for this installation.” Stefanik Passes Bill on Military Spousal Licensing Military spouses must relocate every few years due to their spouse’s job and requirements in the military. Congresswoman Stefanik was able to include her legislation, H.R. 1796, the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act, in the FY18 NDAA. This will require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station and expedite license portability. “Military spouses serve too – and my included bill will help alleviate unnecessary stress and expenses, help make job changes easier, and will give these spouses and their families some deserved predictability as they serve their nation. This has been a legislative initiative of mine since last Congress, and I am pleased to have it included in this legislation. For a district home to so many military spouses, this is an important change to ease their burden,” added Stefanik. Brooke Goldberg, the director of Military Family Policy and Spouse Programs from the Military Officers Association of America stated, “Too often, military spouses face cost prohibitive application or processing fees, testing requirements and other administrative barriers as a direct result of accompanying a service member to their next permanent duty station. These costs affect the entire family’s budget. MOAA is greatly appreciative of this legislation – it is recognition that military families perform the military mission together, supporting each other’s careers, and dealing with the service sacrifice together. We believe this is a valuable retention tool and a smart way to offset negative impacts of moving to servicemembers and their families.” Stefanik Requires Stability for Military Family Members Congresswoman Stefanik also added her legislation, The Military Family Stability Act, to the FY18 NDAA. This legislation improves the transition process for military families when they receive orders for a permanent change of station report date. It would provide military families with the flexibility they need to make a successful transition to their new jobs, schools, and communities. Additionally, it will allow military spouses to work up to six months in their current job, or, if they choose, move up to six months early to their next location in order to secure or begin new full-time employment. This bill would also allow military spouses to extend education they may be pursuing or allow children in military families to smoothly transition to their new school before or after a new term begins. “As the home of Fort Drum and the Kesselring Navy nuclear site, our district knows firsthand the critical role military families play in supporting our troops and providing for our national defense,” said Stefanik. “Military families make great sacrifices when relocating and transitioning to new schools, jobs, and communities, and we must do all we can to help ease their burden.” Stefanik Includes Additive Manufactured Parts The legislation recognizes new technological capabilities that revolutionize the industrial supply chain. The ability to utilize new materials in new ways, such as titanium, has the potential to transform how the Department does business. This report language creates the potential for increased opportunities for companies within NY-21, such as Norsk Titanium, who perform additive manufacturing or 3-D printing. “Our district continues to grow as a home to many companies that work with cutting edge technology, and I was pleased to include this language that will benefit the Department of Defense and these manufacturers,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Requires Reports to Increase Fort Drum Readiness Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added a provision that requires reports on unmanned aerial systems and Army power projection platforms. Fort Drum is a critical military installation, and we must continue to support the 10th Mountain Division and our military units as they train to face our future adversaries. “This report language will help identify gaps with power projection platforms and unmanned aerial systems to ensure that Fort Drum remains a highly relevant and capable military installation, with units ready to face our adversaries,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Strengthens Cyber Warfare Capabilities Congresswoman Stefanik included in her ETC Chairman’s mark items that strengthen cyber warfare capabilities and enhance congressional oversight. Cyberspace is a critical front on the 21st Century Battlefield,” said Stefanik. “Our adversaries – including North Korea, China, Iran, and Russia – are actively investing and developing their cyber capabilities, and we must continue to modernize and develop ours as well. This important legislation is a major part of an overall effort to strengthen our cyber warfare capabilities, enhance our international partnerships, and expand congressional oversight of sensitive cyber operations and the technical and operational capabilities needed to conduct them.” Stefanik Measure Reinforces Counterterrorism and Unconventional Warfare Capabilities “The bill includes language our Subcommittee developed that reinforces counterterrorism and unconventional warfare capabilities by fully resourcing U.S. Special Operations Command’s programs and activities, including ongoing efforts in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Eastern Europe,” added Stefanik. “The bill also includes a new 2-year authority to counter Irregular Warfare and unconventional threats such as those being posed by Russia and other adversaries. And it strengthens congressional oversight of ongoing CT and unconventional warfare operations and programs, including various Intelligence activities.” “To provide for the families of Special Operations Forces, we grant permanent authority for family support programs within U.S. Special Operations Command.” Stefanik Supports Defense Innovation, Emerging Technologies, and Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Programs “The FY2018 NDAA included our language to support Defense innovation to ensure technological superiority and overmatch for our warfighters against current and future threats,” said Stefanik. “I thank all of my colleagues in the House and on the House Armed Services Committee for their work on this critical national security legislation.” ###
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Precision Farming Act of 2017 -- legislation to increase access to broadband connectivity for our rural farmers. “Broadband access is critical to competing in a 21st century economy in almost every sector,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In my visits at farms across the North Country, farmers have discussed with me how the internet has the power to revolutionize the agriculture sector. For instance, a dairy farmer from Potsdam who spoke with my office uses broadband to automate feeding plans for his cows. “To support our North Country farmers, I have re-introduced the Precision Farming Act. This legislation will encourage the construction of rural broadband connections to farms by allowing providers to receive reimbursements for the costs related to construction. Furthermore, this legislation would put our nation’s farmers first, by prioritizing their loan applications for additional construction. “To compete in a 21st Century economy, our farmers must have access to broadband technology and I urge my colleagues to support this important agriculture legislation.” “Access to broadband remains a priority for New York’s famers,” said David Fisher, New York Farm Bureau President. “According to the National Agricultural Statistics Service, nearly a quarter of all farmers in New York still lack internet service which can be a detriment to their businesses. Farms need to be able to quickly exchange data, access information, and use the latest technology available to remain competitive. New York Farm Bureau appreciates Rep. Stefanik’s continued push to expand broadband in our rural communities and to recognize the importance of agriculture in her district.” Precision farming is the practice of utilizing the internet to increase efficiency through data analysis and automation. This practice can encompass every aspect of the agricultural production chain from supply providers, fertilizer applicators, veterinarians and farmers all the way to consumers. These innovative practices are changing the way our nation’s farms are producing our food. Unfortunately, many rural farmers are unable to take advantage of these exciting technologies due to limited broadband infrastructure in their communities. This legislation would take a two pronged approach to addressing rural agricultural broadband challenges by making installation of a broadband line more affordable. Under this legislation, broadband providers would be eligible for a one-time $15,000 reimbursement for each line installed for a qualifying precision farming operation. Farmers wishing to apply for loans to cover additional installation costs would find their applications prioritized under the Rural Electrification Act. Click here for text of this legislation. Just last week, Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues also introduced the Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program Act, also known as the B-CROP Act. ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 3922 – the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act. This legislation funds the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), community health centers, and averts a Medicaid Disproportionate Share (DSH) Hospital reduction of $5 billion. Additionally, this legislation maintained a 23% funding increase in the Federal CHIP Matching Rate for FY ‘2018. Congresswoman Stefanik spoke on the House floor to urge passage of this legislation – click here for video. A transcript of her remarks is below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act. This critical healthcare legislation provides a 5-year extension to the CHIP program that so many children and low income families rely on. In my district alone, over 21,000 children use CHIP for access to low cost health care services. I’m also proud that this legislation includes a needed two-year extension of funding for Community Health Centers. This is an issue I’ve worked hard on, as over 95,000 people in my district receive critical healthcare and preventative services from these centers. There is still much work to do to improve our healthcare system for families in the North Country. In Congress, I’ll keep fighting to protect the programs our district depends on, and I’ll continue working toward the affordable, high-quality healthcare system that my district deserves. Thank you Mr. Speaker, and I yield back. Background: As the author of the bipartisan Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017, Congresswoman Stefanik has been leading the charge to reauthorize funding for Community Health Centers. Her work was instrumental to ensuring this funding was extended. H.R. 3922 funds the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), community health centers, and other important public health priorities which are fully paid for. It includes: Five year extension of CHIP Two year extension of community health centers Averts a Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital reduction of $5 billion, which is scheduled to take place under current law $1 billion for Medicaid programs in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands so patients can receive access to care ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and Hal Rogers (KY-05) have reintroduced the Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program Act, also known as the B-CROP Act. This bipartisan bill would award grant funding to rural broadband projects in high-need in combination with the current loan funding available through USDA’s Rural Utilities Service. U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate earlier this year. “Broadband is critical infrastructure in a 21st century economy so that our North Country businesses can compete around the globe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Broadband access is also important to ensuring our children have access to the educational resources they need to succeed. This important legislation would provide greater resources to build this 21st Century infrastructure in the North Country and in rural areas across our nation. I am pleased to join Congressman Pocan to introduce this bipartisan legislation in the House, and I urge my colleagues to support this effort.” “Access to reliable, high-speed internet service is vital to communities across America, especially to small businesses and students,” said Congressman Pocan. “Yet, in rural areas, including parts of my district in Wisconsin, over a third of the population doesn’t have access to quality broadband. The Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program (B-CROP) Act will increase resources to update and expand broadband infrastructure. I’m proud to work with my colleagues to help close the broadband gap so all communities can have a reliable connection.” “Every aspect of our rural communities will be improved by high-speed internet access,” said Congresswoman Bustos. “You can’t run a modern-day business, school, hospital or clinic with spotty and unreliable internet, and too many of our rural communities across the country are not equipped to be competitive in the digital economy. This bill is part of our plan to bring better jobs, better wages, and a better future to all Americans, and I am proud to help introduce this much-needed legislation.” “Closing the digital divide in rural America and Indian country is essential to economic opportunity and public safety,” said Congressman Huffman. “We cannot continue to leave behind Americans in rural communities who need fair access to quality health care, public safety, and education services, as well as the job opportunities that the digital economy offers. I’m glad to join with lawmakers from both sides of the aisle today to rise above partisanship and introduce the Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program (B-CROP) Act, which would empower rural communities to advance broadband deployment.” “Broadband is America’s modern day interstate highway for business, communications and emergency response. Without it, rural parts of the country are missing out on economic diversity, educational advancements, telemedicine and much more,” said Congressman Hal Rogers. “What’s good for rural America is good for the entire country. I’m proud to join my friend, Rep. Mark Pocan, in support of the B-CROP bill to bring our smaller communities onto the global grid to explore new innovative ideas and create more jobs in the homeland. The B-CROP Act proposes policies to target federal funds to rural and tribal areas in the highest of need to connect all Americans, regardless of where they live, work, or retire, to the technology necessary to succeed in the 21st century. Without access to high-quality, affordable broadband service, workers have fewer opportunities for good-paying jobs, farmers and business owners are isolated from new markets, children are limited in their educational opportunities and health care providers do not have reliable access to the most advanced technology available to help patients. Specifically, the B-CROP Act does the following: Allows for grants of up to 50 percent of a project’s cost, and up to 75 percent for remote, high-need areas, to be awarded in combination with the current loan funding available through USDA’s Rural Utilities Service. Helps enhance the economic feasibility of projects serving rural and tribal areas. Gives highest priority to projects in areas that are currently unserved by high-speed broadband. Coordinates with the FCC’s Universal Service High-Cost Support programs to complement those federal investments, responsibly spending taxpayer money. Increases the authorized funding for RUS’s Broadband programs to $50 million per fiscal year. Provides adequate resources to private-sector providers — including corporations, LLCs, cooperatives or mutual organizations, state or local governments and Indian tribes or tribal organizations — to expand broadband access to unserved rural areas. Gives partnership projects special attention, including initiatives that leverage matching funds and that work with anchor institutions like health centers, libraries, colleges, universities and other educational entities. ###
11.02.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 849, the Protecting Seniors' Access to Medicare Act of 2017 – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored to eliminate the Obamacare Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) that has the unprecedented authority to unilaterally alter Medicare policy that could ultimately reduce seniors’ access to health care. “The Independent Payment Advisory Board is an ill-conceived part of Obamacare that puts unelected bureaucrats in charge of Medicare decisions,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The government should not stand between seniors and their doctors, and I am pleased to vote in support of this bipartisan bill to protect Medicare.” Background: H.R. 849 - Protecting Seniors' Access to Medicare Act of 2017 H.R. 849 terminates the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) which has the unprecedented authority to unilaterally alter Medicare policy that could ultimately reduce seniors’ access to health care and puts the government at the center of our health care system. IPAB: Puts the government – rather than patients and doctors – at the center of our health care system by allowing the board to unilaterally alter Medicare policy Puts 15 unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats – who’s decisions can only be overridden by a supermajority vote in Congress – in control of Medicare. If no board members are appointed, the HHS Secretary would be solely responsible for developing the legislation to cut Medicare to achieve the savings target. Is free from judicial review and delegates far too much power to the Executive Branch Calls for new cuts in addition to the more than $800 billion Obamacare took from Medicare to spend on new enrollment programs Allowing a panel of bureaucrats to make critical health care decisions instead of patients and their families is the wrong approach This bipartisan bill would eliminate IPAB Groups supporting include: 60 Plus Association New York Regional Society of Plastic Surgeons New York State Neurological Society New York State Ophthalmological Society New York State Rheumatology Society New York State Society of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Inc. New York State Society of Plastic Surgeons, Inc New York State Urological Society ###
11.02.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the House Ways and Means Committee’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: "I will continue to stand up for NY taxpayers as we work towards comprehensive tax reform. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act released today by the House Ways and Means Committee is a starting point that needs to be improved to ensure that New Yorkers receive the tax relief they deserve. “I will be working with my colleagues in the New York delegation to improve this plan to provide real tax relief for New Yorkers and to address the issue of state and local tax deductions. My goal for this process is to make certain that families and businesses in our district receive tax relief. I encourage all of our constituents to read this plan and contact my offices by phone or email to share their feedback. “In my meetings with families, businesses, farmers and more, the need for comprehensive tax reform is a frequent topic of discussion, and I am committed to achieving tax reform that makes our tax code fairer and simpler for families and businesses across the North Country." ###
11.02.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a bipartisan group of her House colleagues have written Acting Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, Eric Hargan, to follow up on report language for Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations regarding Lyme disease and improve the measurement and tracking of the progress of federal efforts to combat the disease. “Unfortunately, the northeast is the epicenter of the Lyme Disease epidemic with over 90 percent of confirmed Lyme disease cases being reported from New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Connecticut,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This letter is aimed to create specific, measurable objectives to track progress as we combat Lyme Disease. I will continue to work in Congress to support Lyme Disease research and education. The more we know about Lyme, the more we can do to treat patients and educate families to stop the spread of this debilitating disease.” The letter sent by Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues outlines the performance measures for Lyme disease as Congress considers funding levels to the Center for Disease Control’s (CDC). Performance Indicators: Decrease the incidence of Lyme disease in the United States. Reduce the average time between onset of symptoms and diagnosis of Lyme disease. Increase the number of tests performed for Lyme disease that can confirm the presence of infection. Strategic Objectives: Increase collaboration between HHS agencies and state and local health departments to prevent and control tick-borne diseases. Promote the development of innovative diagnostics and treatments for tick-borne diseases and co-infections. Increase research aimed at controlling or reducing the population of ticks and reducing their ability to transmit disease. Increase research on methods of prevention for stopping the transmission of tick-borne diseases to host reservoir animals and humans. Promote personal protection methods to prevent tick-borne diseases. ###
11.01.2017	Watertown, NY– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she will be sharing stories of North Country veterans on her Congressional website throughout the month of November in honor of Veterans Day. “The North Country is steeped in rich military tradition and is home to some of the bravest patriots this country has ever known,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our military service members have sacrificed so much to keep our nation safe, and I am honored to serve these brave veterans in Congress. Please help me honor these men and women who have served by allowing me to share their stories and photos with a grateful nation.” For those residents of New York’s 21st district who have served in the military or know someone who has, Congresswoman Stefanik is inviting them to submit photos and stories from their time in service to our office. Congresswoman Stefanik will be sharing these stories and photos on her official website and Facebook page throughout the month of November. Please submit your stories and photos to ny21vets@mail.house.gov or to our Glens Falls office at 136 Glen Street, Glens Falls, N.Y., 12801. The deadline for submissions is November 26th. Please do not mail original photos. Those who are submitting material are asked to include a short description of the branch, title, and assignment for photos. Also, they are asked to be sure they have permission to share photos and stories before sending. ###
10.30.2017	WASHINGTON – On Friday, October 27, 2017, a bipartisan group of more than 150 U.S. Representatives sent a letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi expressing serious concerns over the expiration of the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF). The CHCF, which accounts for 70% of community health centers’ federal grant funding, expired at the end of September 2017. The letter, which calls for a five-year reauthorization of the CHCF, was led by Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Congressman Joe Courtney (D-CT), Congressman Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), and Congressman David Young (R-IA). In total, the letter was signed by 155 House Members. Community health centers across the United States deliver affordable, accessible, and quality primary health care to patients, regardless of their ability to pay. As the letter states, Community Health Centers serve more than 27 million individuals in almost 10,000 urban and rural communities, bringing together medical and behavioral health with pharmacy services. They also serve our nation’s veterans, providing care to over 330,000 veterans last year alone. The Community Health Investment, Modernization, and Excellence (CHIME) Act, introduced by Rep. Stefanik and cosponsored by the four leaders of this letter, would reauthorize CHCF for five years and provide steady funding increases each year to ensure community health centers have the certainty they need to continue providing vital health care services to millions of Americans. Below please find the full text of the letter or click here to view the full letter. October 27, 2017 Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi, We write to express our serious concerns over the expiration of the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) program. We understand that community health centers across the country are already facing disruptions as a result of going over the so-called “funding cliff” at the end of September, and we urge you to work with Republicans and Democrats in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize this critical program for five years. Community health centers across the United States have delivered affordable, accessible, and quality primary health care to patients, regardless of their ability to pay, for more than 50 years. They serve more than 27 million individuals in almost 10,000 urban and rural communities by caring for the whole person, bringing together medical and behavioral health with pharmacy services. They also serve our nation’s veterans, providing care to over 330,000 veterans last year alone. The CHCF accounts for 70% of community health centers’ federal grant funding and without knowing when this funding will be renewed, community health centers are already unfortunately considering or taking steps to reduce their services, jeopardizing the care of some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has estimated that without funding in 2018, approximately 2,800 health center sites would close, costing more than 50,000 jobs and endangering the health care of about 9 million patients. The Community Health Center program has long enjoyed bipartisan support. We encourage you to work together to reach a bipartisan agreement on a five-year reauthorization that we all can endorse. Thank you for your efforts to ensure this vital program is funded so community health centers can continue to provide care to those who need it most. ####
10.27.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, released the following statement ahead of National Prescription Drug Take Back Day: “Prescription drug abuse touches our communities, our homes, and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day represents an important opportunity to raise awareness of prescription drug abuse and to educate our families, friends, and communities about the real impact of this epidemic. I thank the law enforcement agencies, businesses, and organizations that are hosting collection sites, and I urge everyone to take advantage of this critical opportunity to save lives.” The National Prescription Drug Take Back Day is sponsored by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration as part of the Department of Justice effort to provide a safe and convenient means of disposing of unused, unwanted, or expired prescription drugs. National Drug Take Back Day will take place on Saturday, October 28th, from 10:00am to 2:00pm. This free and anonymous service collected over 450 tons of prescription drugs nationwide last April, and remains an important program in combatting the opioid epidemic plaguing so many communities. For more information on National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, click here. For an interactive map of collection sites within NY-21, click here. A full list is below: PARTICIPANTS NAME COLLECTION SITE ADDRESS CITY STATE ALBANY NY POLICE DEPARTMENT GLOVERSVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT 3 FRONTAGE ROAD GLOVERSVILLE NY ALBANY NY POLICE DEPARTMENT JOHNSTOWN POLICE DEPARTMENT 41 EAST MAIN STREET JOHNSTOWN NY ORLEANS COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE FULTON COUNTY SHERIFF OFFICE, DAVID TOWNE 2712 STATE HIGHWAY 29 JOHNSTOWN NY MONTGOMERY COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE FULTON COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE 2712 STATE HWY 29 JOHNSTOWN NY EVANS POLICE DEPARTMENT HAMILTON COUNTY JAIL 102 COUNTY VIEW DRIVE LAKE PLEASANT NY ARDSLEY SAYF COALITION MOREAU COMMUNITY CENTER 144 MAIN STREET SOUTH GLENS FALLS NY WYOMING COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT WASHINGTON COUNTY LAW ENFORCEMENT CENTER 399 BROADWAY FORT EDWARD NY AUBURN POLICE DEPARTMENT MOREAU EMERGENCY SQUAD 1583 ROUTE 9 FORT EDWARD NY AUBURN POLICE DEPARTMENT WARREN COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE 1400 STATE ROUTE 9 LAKE GEORGE NY BATAVIA POLICE DEPARTMENT TICONDEROGA POLICE DEPARTMENT STATION 135 BURGOYNE ROAD TICONDEROGA NY NORTHWELL SOUTHSIDE HOSPITAL WHITEHALL POLICE DEPARTMENT 57 SKENESBOROUGH DRIVE WHITEHALL NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION PLATTSBURGH PD 45 PINE STREET PLATTSBURGH NY ALLEGANY COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE ESSEX COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE 702 STOWERSVILLE RD. LEWIS NY ALLEGANY COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE ROUSES POINT FIRE STATION 48 LAKE STREET ROUSES POINT NY SOUTHHAMPTON TOWN POLICE DEPARTMENT KINNEY DRUGS 94 DEMARS BOULEVARD TUPPER LAKE NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION DOLGEVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT 41 NORTH MAIN STREET DOLGEVILLE NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION KINNEY DRUGS 7395 UTICA BLVD. LOWVILLE NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION KINNEY DRUGS 40 STATE HIGHWAY 310 CANTON NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE 48 COURT STREET CANTON NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION KINNEY DRUGS 17 CLINTON STREET GOUVERNEUR NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION MOHAWK TRIBAL POLICE DEPARTMENT 545 STATE ROUTE 37 HOGANSBURG NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION MASSENA POLICE DEPARTMENT, MASSENA HOSPITAL 1 HOSPITAL DRIVE MASSENA NY DEA NEW YORK DIVISION MASSENA POLICE DEPARTMENT 60 MAIN STREET MASSENA NY LACKAWANNA POLICE DEPARTMENT KINNEY DRUGS 700 CANTON STREET OGDENSBURG NY ###
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, released the following statement after President Trump declared the national opioid epidemic a public health emergency: “Far too many families across our North Country community have seen firsthand the devastating effects of the heroin and opioid epidemic that is sweeping across our nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Opioid abuse touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives. Since I arrived in Congress, I have prioritized working with our state and local officials to combat this tragic epidemic, and I will continue to work on solutions to help families in our district and across our nation. I applaud President Trump for his announcement today and for providing increased resources to fight this devastating problem.” Background: Stefanik Votes in Support of Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act Stefanik Speaks on Devastating Heroin and Opioid Epidemic on House Floor Stefanik Votes in Support of 21st Century Cures Act Stefanik Hosts Opioid forum in Warren County ###
10.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Renewable Electricity Tax Credit Equalization Act – legislation to extend tax credits for electricity produced from closed-loop biomass, open-loop biomass, geothermal, municipal solid waste, qualified hydropower facilities and marine and hydrokinetic facilities. “The North Country is the proud home of numerous renewable energy production facilities and it’s important that we ensure these clean energy sources are supported,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This commonsense legislation puts biomass, hydropower, geothermal and other renewable energy sources on a level playing field with wind energy facilities. All of these renewable energy sources represent a new frontier for our environment and for economic growth, and it’s important that we give them the support they need.” Background: Under prior law, Code Section 45 provided a temporary production tax credit (PTC) for renewable electricity produced from certain qualified facilities, including: wind, closed-loop biomass, open-loop biomass, geothermal, municipal solid waste, qualified hydropower facilities and marine and hydrokinetic facilities. The amount of the PTC in the case of wind and geothermal facilities was 1.5 cents per kilowatt hour indexed for inflation (2.3 cents in 2015), and 50% of that amount for open and closed loop biomass, municipal solid waste, hydropower and marine and hydrokinetic facilities. In addition, Section 45 facilities were eligible to elect to take the Code section 48 investment tax credit (ITC) in lieu of the section 45 PTC. The Omnibus Spending Act of 2015 extended the section 45 PTC for electricity produced from wind retroactively to January 1, 2015 and prospectively through the end of 2019, as well as the election to take the ITC in lieu of the PTC. The wind credit was phased down by 20% for projects that began construction in 2017, by 40% for projects which begin construction in 2018, and by 60% for projects which begin construction in 2019. The wind credit expires after December 31, 2019. The Problem: The PTC for the non-wind section 45 technologies was extended for two years in the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act, through December 31, 2016. This means tax incentives for electricity produced from closed-loop biomass, open-loop biomass, geothermal, municipal solid waste, qualified hydropower facilities and marine and hydrokinetic facilities have now expired. The Solution: To stop the federal government from picking winners and losers, Rep. Elise Stefanik introduced the Renewable Electricity Tax Credit Equalization Act. These renewable baseload technologies that were left behind play an indispensable role in maintaining a reliable and functioning electrical grid system, while also supporting the integration of additional wind and solar electricity into the grid. Renewable Electricity Tax Credit Equalization Act: Would extend both the Code section 45 PTC and the election to take the section 48 ITC for closed-loop biomass, open-loop biomass, geothermal, landfill gas, trash facilities, qualified hydropower facilities and marine and hydrokinetic facilities. Makes sure this extension is on the same terms and for the same time and phase-out schedule as was provided to section 48 solar energy property in 2015. Click here for bill text. What They’re Saying: “The hydropower industry applauds Congresswoman Stefanik for her efforts to eliminate the disparity in the tax code that puts hydropower and marine energy projects at an economic disadvantage,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association. “Hydropower plays an indispensable role in maintaining a reliable grid system, and has the potential to grow by 50 gigawatts by 2050, creating over 75,000 jobs in the process. Rep. Stefanik’s bill will put hydropower on a level playing field by curtailing the unfair tax policies that are driving away new infrastructure investment.” "Congresswoman Stefanik has been a consistent and outspoken supporter of renewable energy, including biomass," said Bob Cleaves, president of Biomass Power Association. "We are so grateful for her leadership in creating tax parity for all renewables. Tax credits can make the difference between a proposed project and a completed one, such as with the ReEnergy facility that powers Fort Drum in Rep. Stefanik's district. If this credit passes, we are hopeful that it will lead to new biomass development in areas that can sustain it." "The biogas industry applauds the introduction of the Renewable Electricity Tax Credit Equalization Act which will fix inequities in our tax code and allow biogas systems and baseload renewable energy project development to grow," said Patrick Serfass, Executive Director of the American Biogas Council. "The US biogas industry has the potential to build at least 13,000 new systems which would catalyze about $40 billion in new capital investments, create 335,000 construction jobs and 23,000 permanent jobs and build the infrastructure we need for recycling organic material and protecting our air, water and soil." “The Energy Recovery Council applauds Congresswoman Stefanik for introducing legislation that would create a level playing for baseload renewable energy technologies in the federal tax code,” said Ted Michaels, President of the Energy Recovery Council. “Providing waste-to-energy and other baseload renewable energy sources the same tax treatment that is afforded other renewables will help technologies like waste-to-energy compete fairly in the marketplace, while providing the myriad benefits of generating renewable electricity from post-recycled waste that would otherwise be buried.” "As one of the larger private owners and operators of hydropower facilities in the US, including numerous dams in Representative Stefanik's district, Brookfield Renewable supports this important bill,” said Nicolas Bossé, Senior Vice President, Government & Regulatory Affairs, Brookfield Renewable. “We appreciate Representative Stefanik's leadership in supporting the hydropower industry, which creates jobs in rural communities, such as those in upstate New York, and provides affordable, clean and reliable electricity to US businesses and families." ###
10.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a bipartisan group of House lawmakers wrote a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to ensure inclusion of medical device tax relief in legislative vehicles being considered by the House before the end of the year. The medical device tax is currently under a suspension that expires on January 1, 2018. “This is an extremely important issue for our district, especially in Warren County, home of what is called ‘catheter valley’ because of the numerous catheter manufacturers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Affordable Care Act’s onerous medical device tax limits access to the healthcare devices that North Country families need and undermines the medical device industry that is so important to our local economy. Furthermore, repealing this legislation would help these important small businesses create jobs for North Country families and protect employees who are currently at risk from this job killing tax.” Below is a copy of the letter the lawmakers sent; click here for a digital version. October 24, 2017 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House U.S. House of Representatives H-232 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, We write to urge you to work with the Committee on Ways and Means to ensure inclusion of medical device tax relief in legislative vehicles being considered by the House before the end of the year. The suspension of the medical device tax expires on January 1, 2018, and it is critical to the health and sustainability of this vital American manufacturing industry that this tax is not once again applied to its products. This looming tax increase will impact medtech innovation and job creation, threatening this industry and the constituents we serve. The medical device industry, which includes hundreds of small businesses, needs certainty to continue its research and investment in critical life-saving innovations. The medical device industry directly employs 400,000 Americans. The industry is primarily comprised of small businesses – of the 6,500 medical device manufacturers in the United States, approximately 80% employ fewer than 50 employees. Patients who rely upon these innovative technologies that improve their health will ultimately suffer the burden of this tax if it goes back into effect. Legislation to repeal the device tax enjoys broad bipartisan support as members from both parties recognize the impact this tax has on our constituents, both in access to the medical devices and diagnostic tools at the core of providing quality care, and in the hundreds of thousands employed by the industry. Overall, the U.S. medical technology industry saw its jobs ranks fall by nearly 29,000 while the medical device excise tax was in effect, according to data from the U.S. Department of Commerce. A policy brief released by the American Action Forum (AAF) in March further underscores the impact of the device tax on medtech employment. According to AAF, if the tax resumes in 2018, up to 25,000 additional jobs could be lost by 2021. The net impact of permanently repealing the medical device tax could be in excess of 53,000 additional jobs, compared to what would occur if the tax remains in effect. Finally, the 2.3% tax on revenue, rather than income, deters innovation, company formation, and economic growth. As companies plan their budgets for 2018, they will continue to move forward with decisions based on the assumption that the tax will return. Research and development is one of the first items to go to offset the tax, which undermines the future of the industry and erodes the long-run economic competitiveness of an important domestic manufacturing sector with facilities in 44 states. More importantly, smaller manufacturers have had to pay the tax upon their first sale, which deters capital investment in new firms and slows the growth of existing ones. As the House looks ahead to the latter half of the year, it is crucial that we do not allow taxes to increase on this key industry. We owe it to our constituents to act, and we look forward to working with you to accomplish this goal. Sincerely, ###
10.18.2017	Malone, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) toured Prairie’s Orchard, a family-owned apple orchard located in Malone. The Prairie family planted their first trees in 2013 and this is their first year selling their harvest. The orchard is home to over 650 trees that produce a wide variety of apples. “I am grateful to Dan and Brandyn Prairie for taking me on a tour of their beautiful apple orchard today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Agriculture is a critical component of our North Country economy and it is great seeing members of our agricultural community move their delicious products to market. I also appreciated the opportunity to discuss the upcoming Farm Bill and funding programs available to new farmers and producers through the U.S. Department of Agriculture. As Congress begins debate on the upcoming Farm Bill, I will continue working to ensure that our farmers have a voice in the policymaking process.” ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, was selected by Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI-01) to serve on the formal House-Senate conference committee charged with resolving differences over the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “I am grateful to Speaker Ryan for selecting me to serve for the third year in a row on the bicameral NDAA conference committee,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our federal government has no greater role than providing for our national defense, and it’s important that our district and Fort Drum have a seat at the table during NDAA negotiations. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to secure a strong NDAA that gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe.” ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement supporting President Trump’s effort to expand choice in healthcare for families and businesses: “Families and businesses in my district deserve more choice in healthcare, and I applaud these efforts to lower costs,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Allowing employers to pool together and purchase insurance across state lines is commonsense and will allow more people to access affordable coverage. I will continue to work in Congress on bipartisan healthcare solutions to help lower costs, increase access and improve quality.” Recently, Congresswoman Stefanik has been leading the charge in Congress to protect funding for Community Health Centers in NY-21 that provide services to over 95,000 people. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored H.R. 1101 -- the Small Business Health Fairness Act. This legislation would empower small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide their employees greater access to affordable health care. ###
10.12.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor in recognition of National Farmers Day. Click here for video of her remarks; a transcript is below. Mr. Speaker, when you eat today, you can thank a farmer. Across this great nation, over 3 million farmers work tirelessly each day to produce the food that feeds our families and keeps our country running. From Graceway Dairy Farm in Lowville to Everett Orchards in Peru, I’ve been blessed to meet with so many farmers that make up the backbone of our North Country economy. Many of these family farms in my district produce dairy, apples, honey, wine, and the most delicious maple in the country. And as Congress works on the next farm bill, we need to focus on supporting those who support our nation’s food supply. Mr. Speaker, today, on National Farmers Day, I urge my colleagues to join me in thanking the men and women who rise before the sun each and every day to make sure our families are fed. Thank you and I yield back. ###
10.05.2017	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), author of the bipartisan the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017, released the following statement after the House Energy and Commerce Committee successfully passed legislation to extend Community Health Center funding for two years: “This is a very important development and I applaud Chairman Walden and Members of the Energy and Commerce Committee for making this a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “While I believe a five-year reauthorization would be the best solution, this legislation means Community Health Centers will be protected and the over 95,000 patients in our district who use them will continue to have access to care. I will continue to push forward on this important issue and work with my colleagues to have this measure passed through Congress and signed into law.” “I thank Congresswoman Stefanik for leading this important effort to protect funding for Community Health Centers nationwide,” said Greg Walden, Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Congresswoman Stefanik’s bipartisan effort played an important role in discussions surrounding ways to extend federal funding of this important program, and I look forward to continuing to work with her to see this vital funding be authorized and signed into law.” Congresswoman Stefanik is the author of the CHIME Act which would have authorized funding for five years and has over 180 bipartisan cosponsors. Background: Community Health Centers are the primary care medical home for more than 26 million Americans living in every state and territory. With bipartisan support from Congress, the more than 1,400 health center organizations nationwide provide access to high-quality primary and preventive care, while integrating behavioral health, dental, substance abuse and other critical services for their patients. Health Centers are a cost-effective provider of care, having been proven to save 24% in total Medicaid spending when compared to other providers. Total funding for the Health Centers program currently stands at $5.1 billion annually. Of this total, $3.6 billion comes from the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF), a dedicated source of funding that was extended for two years in 2015. This funding expired on September 30th. According to estimates from the Department of Human Services, a funding cut of this magnitude to the Health Centers program would result in over 9 million patients losing access to care, cost 50,000 jobs in economically hard-hit communities across the nation, and force 2,800 health center locations to shut their doors. ###
10.04.2017	Watertown, NY– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement on the announcement from Governor Cuomo that Watertown will receive $10 million in funding for downtown revitalization: “This is exciting news for our Watertown community, and I commend Governor Cuomo for making this funding a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This funding will help make Watertown’s downtown more vibrant, making us more competitive as a tourist and commercial center for our region. I’m so pleased to see Watertown continue to grow, and I look forward to continuing to work with our state and local leaders on improvements to our great region.” ###
10.03.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded continued support for her bipartisan legislation, the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017, which has 177 cosponsors in the House of Representatives. “I thank my colleagues for quickly rallying around this important measure to protect funding for Community Health Centers that provide critical healthcare and preventative services for families across our nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased this momentum is turning into action, and the Energy and Commerce Committee has announced a markup tomorrow on legislation to extend funding for these critical healthcare facilities. In my district alone, Community Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters Health Network, North Country Family Health Center, and the Community Health Center of the North Country serve over 95,000 patients and it’s critical this funding be extended to serve the needs of our community.” In response to support for Rep. Stefanik’s efforts to reinstate Community Health Center funding, it was announced that that the House Energy and Commerce Committee will be marking up legislation tomorrow, which includes the Community Care Act, a provision to extend funding for Community Health Centers at $3.6 billion a year for two years. Congresswoman Stefanik is an original cosponsor of this legislation. ###
10.03.2017	Washington, DC–Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) joined a bipartisan group of 228 lawmakers urging the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma to withdraw its harmful proposal to levy cuts on certain hospitals participating in the 340B Drug Pricing Program (340B program). “Rural communities like the North Country have been well served by this important program that provides access to discounted drugs and lifesaving services,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Since 1992 the 340B program has helped expand healthcare for communities like ours and I join my colleagues in urging CMS to withdraw its proposed rule so that this funding will continue to be there for those who need it most.” On July 13, 2017, CMS released the outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS) proposed rule for 2018. The rule would dramatically cut the reimbursement rate for Medicare Part B drugs purchased by certain hospitals covered under the 340B program. These cuts jeopardize care for millions by directly reducing revenue to safety net hospitals that care for vulnerable patents in underserved and rural communities, without addressing the underlying price of the drugs. Since 1992, the 340B program has leveraged mandated discounts offered by drug manufacturers to help hospitals and other covered entities provide discounted drugs and lifesaving services to their patients. CMS’ proposed rule will eliminate funding that hospitals use to support the unreimbursed cost of care for those who need it the most. Click here for full text of the letter. ###
09.29.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that the Wild Center in Tupper Lake has been selected as part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Environmental Literacy Award Program. The Environmental Literacy Award Program supports NOAA’s mission to educate and inspire citizens to use Earth science to improve our ecosystem and protect our environment. The Wild Center is being awarded $493,868 for a three year project to increase environmental literacy among high school students and educators in the Adirondack region. “In the North Country, we recognize the importance of our environment not only to our economy, but to our way of life,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These important Environmental Literacy Awards will go a long way in helping equip the next generation with the skills necessary to become responsible environmental stewards. I applaud NOAA for making these investments in our district, and I look forward to watching the Wild Center use these funds to help protect our pristine environment for generations to come.” ###
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Jacky Rosen (D-NV-03) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) have introduced H.R. 3855, the Securing The Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017. This is a bipartisan bill introduced alongside Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08), a Member of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Protection, and Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL-03), Ranking Member of the House Science, Space, & Technology Committee’s Subcommittee on Research & Technology, which has jurisdiction over cyber security matters. H.R. 3855 would require a report from the Departments of Defense, Energy, and Homeland Security, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence on significant security risks to the national electric grid, the potential effect of such security risks on the readiness of the United States Armed Forces, and recommendations for mitigating those threats. "As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I'm pleased to introduce this legislation with Rep. Rosen to better protect our nation against attacks on our critical infrastructure," said Rep. Stefanik. "In this day and age, with adversaries around the globe developing their cyber capabilities, we must redouble our efforts to protect against these sorts of attacks. This legislation will help Congress and our military gain a better understanding of the vulnerabilities and dependencies of these systems in order to better protect our homeland, and I encourage my colleagues to support this effort." “We must take every step necessary to modernize our electric power grid and protect our military assets from malicious cyber-attacks,” said Rosen. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am committed to seeing that our Armed Forces have every advantage and are well-equipped to come to our nation’s defense. I’m proud to work across the aisle to introduce this legislation that will help ensure America's military readiness by requiring top officials to identify and report any vulnerabilities that might jeopardize our core defense missions.” “As a member of the Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Protection I’m working to defend America’s domestic networks and establish a comprehensive assessment of the current cyber threat environment to help guide the Department of Homeland Security's governmental and civilian cyber defense mission. Whether it is state actors from North Korea to Russia, hacktivists or terror groups, cyber-security – especially when it comes to infrastructure like our electric grid - is a complex and serious national and economic security issue that our country will continue face over the decades to come,” said Rep. Fitzpatrick. “This bipartisan legislation is a crucial step toward ensuring we are doing everything we can to keep our nation and its people safe.” “This bill will help protect our electric grid from attacks by America’s enemies who are trying to take down our defenses,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It will also help us harden our entire electric grid against cyberattacks, protecting Americans and American businesses from attempts by online adversaries to disrupt our lives.” BACKGROUND: H.R. 3855 is a bipartisan bill that, if enacted, would require the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretaries of Energy and Homeland Security, to submit to Congress a report detailing significant security risks to defense critical electric infrastructure posed by malicious cyber-enabled activities. View text of the bill here. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the release of a tax reform framework negotiated by President Trump and Republican Congressional Leadership: “The last time our tax code was reformed was 1986, when I was just two years old. Since that time, the tax code has grown to over 3 million words and 85,000 pages. This suffocating bureaucracy and inefficiency stifles growth, kills jobs and costs hard working North Country families money that should be kept in their pockets. It’s time for comprehensive tax reform. “During my meetings with constituents and businesses across our district, tax reform is a frequent topic of conversation, whether with families, manufacturers or our North Country farmers. I am soliciting feedback and input on this framework from stakeholders and hardworking families in the district. “I believe that any tax reform plan should make the code flatter, fairer and simpler for families and businesses in our district, should allow middle class families to keep more of their paychecks, and should lower taxes on our small businesses so that they can compete around the globe. “I applaud President Trump and my colleagues in Congress for making this a top priority and for unveiling this framework today and I look forward to representing the North Country during the tax reform process.” ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded growing support for her legislation, the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017. This legislation was introduced on September 13th and now has the bipartisan support of over 110 Members of the House of Representatives. “I thank my colleagues for quickly rallying around this important measure to protect funding for Community Health Centers that provide critical healthcare and preventative services for families across our nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In my district alone, Community Health Centers like Hudson Headwaters Health Network, North Country Family Health Center, and the Community Health Center of the North Country serve over 95,000 patients and it’s critical this funding be extended to serve the needs of our community. I will continue working to gain support for this critical legislation and will explore all legislative paths forward to ensure this funding is passed and signed into law.” “The day-to-day care provided by federally qualified community health centers is considered to be the life-blood of rural communities both regionally and across the country. These health centers deliver access to proactive, high quality, cost-effective health care regardless of ability to pay for tens of thousands of individuals regionally,” said Dr. Tucker Slingerland, CEO of Hudson Headwaters Health Network. “Continued funding for community health centers also translates into larger savings downstream where medical services often carry a much higher expense. We represent the forefront of innovation needed to build a more efficient and sustainable delivery system.” Community Health Centers are the primary care medical home for more than 26 million Americans living in every state and territory. With bipartisan support from Congress, the more than 1,400 health center organizations nationwide provide access to high-quality primary and preventive care, while integrating behavioral health, dental, substance abuse and other critical services for their patients. Health Centers are a cost-effective provider of care, having been proven to save 24% in total Medicaid spending when compared to other providers. Total funding for the Health Centers program currently stands at $5.1 billion annually. Of this total, $3.6 billion comes from the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF), a dedicated source of funding that was extended for two years in 2015. Without action by Congress by September 30, 2017, this funding is slated to expire. According to estimates from the Department of Human Services, a funding cut of this magnitude to the Health Centers program would result in over 9 million patients losing access to care, cost 50,000 jobs in economically hard-hit communities across the nation, and force 2,800 health center locations to shut their doors. Click here for bill text. ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Elise M. Stefanik (NY-21) and Mark Pocan (WI-02) today called for a vote on H.R. 2482, the Perkins Loans Extension Act, after more than half of the members of the U.S. House of Representatives signed on as cosponsors. With the Perkins Loan program scheduled to expire on September 30, 2017, Congress must reauthorize the program, or 500,000 students across the country will not be able to access much-needed financial aid. “I want to thank my colleagues for lending their voice and their support to this important effort,” said Stefanik. “A half million students across the country will lose access to critical financial aid without action by Congress, so I’m pleased that a majority of my House colleagues have joined in support of H.R. 2482 – the Perkins Loan Extension Act. When I speak to students and families across my district, college affordability continues to be a major challenge. The Perkins Loan program is a critical tool to support low and middle income students, and I urge the House to swiftly pass this commonsense, bipartisan legislation to help students across the country achieve their dreams.” “With more than half of the U.S. House of Representatives supporting the Perkins Loans Extension Act, we should immediately bring the bill to the floor for a vote. Hundreds of thousands of students across the country are counting on Congress to act by September 30 to reauthorize this program or their futures will be in jeopardy,” said Pocan. “These students attend colleges and universities across the country and the Perkins Loans program gives them the opportunity to access an education they would otherwise be unable to afford. No American should ever be denied the opportunity to achieve their dreams, especially when they have worked hard and are the first in their family to attend college, as many Perkins Loans recipients are.” Pocan and Stefanik led the introduction of H.R. 2482, the Perkins Loan Extension Act, which extends the Perkins Loan Program for a period of 2 years so that students currently enrolled in the program can continue to receive financial aid. The legislation currently has 223 cosponsors in the House of Representatives and is supported by more than 30 education based organizations and more than 80 universities. Companion legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Bob Casey (D-PA), and Susan Collins (R-ME). ###
09.25.2017	Washington – Today, Rep. Elise Stefanik, Chair of the Republican Policy Committee’s Millennial Task Force, held a hearing on challenges and opportunities within the Hydropower Workforce. Panelists at the hearing included: Charles Hernick, Director of Policy, Citizens for Responsible Energy Solutions, Adam Witt, Research and Development Associate, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and Justin Truedell, Director of Northeast Operations, Brookfield Renewable. “I was pleased to host our fifth Millennial Task Force hearing to focus on the unique challenges and opportunities millennials face in the hydropower industry,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The American energy sector is in an exciting place -- just last year renewable energy reached its highest ever production levels with hydropower accounting for 25 percent of this, more than solar and wind combined. What makes these totals even more promising is the potential for massive growth within the hydropower sector. To make this expansion a reality the hydropower industry needs a robust workforce and today’s hearing was an important opportunity to hear experts discuss the robust opportunities this presents for the millennial generation. We must act to prevent stagnation in a critical component of our renewable energy portfolio, and while there’s no cure all solution, we do know that policies and programs that encourage job ready training and education will greatly assist more millennials to find work in the renewable energy industry.” “Congresswoman Stefanik has been a tireless advocate for millennials,” said Rep. Luke Messer, Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee. “I thank her for leading on this important workforce development issue, and look forward to continuing the conversation about how we can best help millennials succeed in the workforce and beyond.” ###
09.21.2017	Watertown, NY– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced an upcoming workshop for high school students interested in applying to a U.S. Military Service Academy. Service Academy Night is being presented alongside the offices of Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Representative Claudia Tenney, and Representative John Katko. Students, parents, and school officials from across our district and the region will be able to meet representatives from various military academies who will inform students and families of eligibility guidelines and offer advice on application processes. “This free workshop is an important resource for students in my district who are considering the extensive opportunities available through our nation’s prestigious military academies,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The North Country has a proud tradition of service, and attending one of our nation’s premier military academies is an incredible honor and distinction. I hope students in our district will take advantage of this opportunity to learn more about these institutions and a career in the U.S. military.” Service Academy Night Details: Date: Thursday, October 5, 2017 Time: 6:00pm Location: Onondaga Community College, Storer Auditorium Syracuse, NY RSVP: Avery_Cambridge@gillibrand.senate.gov or 315-448-0470 Click here for information on obtaining a Service Academy Nomination through Rep. Stefanik’s office. ###
09.20.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, announced a series of new and continuing Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program Grants awarded to organizations around the district working to prevent substance abuse and promote recovery. These grants are administered by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The DFC Grant Program was created under the Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 and is the Nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent and combat substance abuse among youth. “Substance abuse touches our communities, our schools and our families, and no one is immune from this devastating epidemic” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Prevention is a powerful tool to protect against substance abuse in the North Country. Teaching our youth to make healthy choices at a young age is the first step in avoiding the many tragedies we see and read about in the news. These important grants will go a long way in bringing youth, parents, school administrators and other community leaders together to save lives and protect our loved ones. I commend ONDCP and SAMHSA for making these critical investments that enable us to stop substance abuse and improve the health of our North Country communities. In Congress, I will continue working across the aisle with my colleagues to address the substance abuse epidemic plaguing far too many families across our district and across our nation.” Information about the organizations receiving DFC Grants can be found below: New DFC Grantees: Youth Empowerment and Health! Community Coalition Lewis County, NY Grant Amount: $125,000 Akwesasne Coalition for Community Empowerment Akwesasne, NY Grant Amount: $125,000 Continuing DFC Grantees: Four Rivers Alliance of Hamilton County Johnstown, NY Grant Amount: $125,000 Alliance for Better Communities Watertown, NY Grant Amount: $125,000 Massena Drug Free Community Coalition Massena, NY Grant Amount; $125,000 ###
09.19.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a series of Museums for America (MFA) Grants awarded to environmentally-focused museums within the 21st Congressional District by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The MFA Grant Program is the IMLS’s largest discretionary program for museums. These grants are designed to promote the role of museums in communities by strengthening their ability to serve the public. Grant totals within the 21st District exceed $405,000. “The North Country’s pristine environment is a defining feature of many of our communities across the district, and I applaud these museums for working to showcase our natural treasures,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This funding will enable several local museums to further develop their programming, honoring the rich environmental history of our district and equipping visitors with the knowledge they need to protect our environment for generations to come. I congratulate the recipients of these important grants and thank them for their years of work promoting conservation, the sciences, and North Country history.” Information about the museums receiving IMLS MFA Grants can be found below: Historic Saranac Lake Award Amount: $20, 650 Adirondack Experience Award Amount: $140,000 The Wild Center Award Amount: $245,161 ###
09.15.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the introduction of Senate companion legislation to her bill, H.R. 2482 – the Perkins Loan Extension Act, to reauthorize the federal Perkins Loan program for two years. Currently, this program is set to expire on September 30th. “I thank Senators Portman, Baldwin, Collins and Casey for their leadership on this important issue,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Perkins Loans are used by over a half a million students nationwide, and it’s critical that we extend this important program for low and middle income students. In my district alone, this program is used by students at Clarkson, Paul Smith’s College, and SUNY Potsdam, SUNY Canton and SUNY Plattsburgh. My bill in the House has over 180 bipartisan cosponsors now, and I will continue to advocate that it be brought to the floor for a vote as soon as possible.” ###
09.14.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) took to the House floor to urge Congress to pass her legislation, H.R. 2482 – the Perkins Loan Extension Act, to reauthorize the Perkins Loan Program for two more years. Click here for video of her remarks; a transcript is provided below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of a half million students across the country who will lose access to critical financial aid without action by Congress. Perkins Loans are an important resource for low and middle income students. A majority of those receiving this aid come from families with household incomes less than 30 thousand dollars a year. In my district alone, this program is used by students at Clarkson, Paul Smith’s College, and SUNY Potsdam, SUNY Canton and SUNY Plattsburgh. Without Congressional action, these students will lose access to these important loans after September 30th when this program expires. I’ve introduced H.R. 2482 – the Perkins Loan Extension Act – that will reauthorize this aid for two more years. I’ve been grateful to receive support from 160 bipartisan cosponsors. Mr. Speaker, we must ensure that low income students have access to a quality education, and the Perkins Loan program is a critical tool to help them succeed. I urge the House to swiftly pass my bill before the end of the month. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
09.14.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 3354 – the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018 and released the following statement after House passage: “I disagreed with the President’s budget proposal and pledged to work hard on behalf of our district during the appropriations process to ensure the priorities of the North Country were protected,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I’m pleased to report that several amendments I worked on for our district were included in the final appropriations bill that passed the House today. “I will continue to work in a bipartisan manner in Congress to support jobs and economic growth in our region, ensure that our environmental treasures are protected, provide educational opportunities for the next generation, and much more,” added Stefanik. The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018 included many amendments that Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored, including: A Welch-Stefanik Amendment to Restore Funding for Lake Champlain Restoration and Protection A Bipartisan Amendment to Increase Women in Apprenticeships An amendment that would Increase Funding for the Older Americans Act to Provide Access to In-Home and Nutrition Services, including Meals on Wheels. An amendment to provide $1.15 billion in Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018 passed the House today by a vote of 211-198. ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), David Young (R-IA-03), Joe Courtney (D-CT-02), and Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ-01) introduced the Community Health Investment, Modernization and Excellence (CHIME) Act of 2017 – bipartisan legislation to extend the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) for five years, with modest increases to ensure responsiveness to demand for care and national priority areas. “Federally qualified community health centers in my district serve over 95,000 patients, and it’s critical to the needs of our community that this funding be extended,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The health centers provide families across the North Country with critical healthcare and preventative services. Congress must act to ensure the North Country and communities across the country don’t lose access to this needed care, and I’m pleased to work across the aisle with my colleagues on this important legislation.” “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this important bill to provide certainty and needed funding for Iowa’s Community Health Centers so they can continue to provide comprehensive health services for those in most need,” said Congressman Young. “Our Community Health Centers are incredibly important to ensuring Iowans in rural and underserved areas have access to care while saving costs for our national health system, and I’ll continue to work to see this bill pass so our patients have access to the care they deserve.” “Community Health Centers provide high-quality primary and preventative care to hundreds of thousands of patients in Connecticut at dozens of locations across the state,” said Congressman Courtney. These are vital, efficient, and locally-focused healthcare providers and it is absolutely imperative that Congress passes legislation that will allow them to continue serving their patients. Powered by local communities and supported by federal funding, the Federally Qualified Community Health Center program is a true success story.” “Last year, Arizona community health centers served more than 600,000 patients and provided critical jobs to nearly 5,000 doctors, nurses, and medical staff,” said Congressman O’Halleran. “If Congress does not act, more than 150 health centers will lose funding and no longer be able to serve our communities. I am proud to join my colleagues on this bipartisan bill that extends the Community Health Centers Funds and protects access to care for Arizona families.” "This legislation could not come at a more critical time for our nation's health centers and the patients and communities they serve,” said Dan Hawkins, Senior Vice President for Public Policy and Research, National Association of Community Health Centers. “Health centers nationwide are already experiencing major disruptions as a result of the looming funding cliff. The CHIME Act would provide health centers in more than 10,000 communities the certainty they need to continue delivering high-value care, keeping costs down and improving quality. We thank Reps. Stefanik, O’Halleran, Young and Courtney for their leadership. NACHC strongly endorses this legislation and is committed to working with Congress to ensure passage before the September 30 deadline." “The day-to-day care provided by federally qualified community health centers is considered to be the life-blood of rural communities both regionally and across the country. These health centers deliver access to proactive, high quality, cost-effective health care regardless of ability to pay for tens of thousands of individuals regionally,” said Dr. Tucker Slingerland, CEO of Hudson Headwaters Health Network. “Continued funding for community health centers also translates into larger savings downstream where medical services often carry a much higher expense. We represent the forefront of innovation needed to build a more efficient and sustainable delivery system.” Community Health Centers are the primary care medical home for more than 26 million Americans living in every state and territory. With bipartisan support from Congress, the more than 1,400 health center organizations nationwide provide access to high-quality primary and preventive care, while integrating behavioral health, dental, substance abuse and other critical services for their patients. Health Centers are a cost-effective provider of care, having been proven to save 24% in total Medicaid spending when compared to other providers. Total funding for the Health Centers program currently stands at $5.1 billion annually. Of this total, $3.6 billion comes from the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF), a dedicated source of funding that was extended for two years in 2015. Without action by Congress by September 30, 2017, this funding is slated to expire. According to estimates from the Department of Human Services, a funding cut of this magnitude to the Health Centers program would result in over 9 million patients losing access to care, cost 50,000 jobs in economically hard-hit communities across the nation, and force 2,800 health center locations to shut their doors. Click here for bill text. ###
09.13.2017	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 3497, the Modernization of Medical Records Access for Veterans Act – bipartisan legislation to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to implement a pilot program that would establish a patient-centered medical records system for veterans that is secure, portable and comprehensive. Currently, patients receiving care in the private sector have access to their medical records and can easily share them with doctors and other health care providers. This legislation brings veteran healthcare in line with private sector care, and increases portability and choice as veterans seek the care they deserve. “Our veterans deserve the best healthcare possible. With so many heroes returning home with service-related injuries, it only makes sense to do all we can to make it easier for our veterans to access care,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Modernization of Medical Records Access for Veterans Act will bring much needed portability and flexibility to veterans’ healthcare. This flexibility has long been enjoyed by civilians in the private sector, and I’ll keep working in Congress to improve our VA Health Care system and ensure they benefits they’ve earned are properly and compassionately delivered.” ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC [09/12/17] – Today Congresswomen Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), and Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL) announced that the House has passed their bipartisan amendment to increase the number of women in apprenticeships and improve skills training. The lawmakers, all members of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, are longtime supporters of increasing opportunities for women as a step to help close the skills gap. The amendment increases funding for Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations (WANTO) grants. “In my home state of Oregon, I have seen how apprenticeships can help women enter the building trades and lead to success in the field,” said Congresswoman Bonamici. “Our bipartisan amendment will increase funding for the Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations grants, which will help more employers and organizations train, place, and retain women in apprenticeships and good-paying jobs. Because of this funding, tradeswomen in Oregon will have additional support and assistance getting the skills they need to advance their careers.” “Apprenticeships are valuable programs that provide career opportunities in high paying technical fields, and this added funding will help more women find careers in advanced manufacturing, transportation or construction,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “By delivering this funding to programs in our district and across the country, we can help support women entering these crucial fields and support important apprenticeship programs that train our workers. I thank Congresswoman Bonamici for her leadership on this issue.” “Apprenticeships play a vital role in our economy through strengthening the middle class and it’s essential that we expand these opportunities to more women,” said Congressman Krishnamoorthi. “By increasing funding for Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations grants, we can help more women develop the in-demand skills they need for good-paying, family-sustaining jobs.” ###
09.12.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) sent a letter to General Mark A. Milley, U.S. Army Chief of Staff, expressing concerns over the potential effects of industrial wind turbine development on Fort Drum’s ability to execute current and future missions. The full letter to General Milley is below, or for a digital copy, click here. September 12, 2017 General Mark A. Milley Army Chief of Staff 200 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0200 Dear General Milley, I know you share my pride and appreciation for the 10th Mountain Division and its home at Fort Drum in northern New York. I am writing today to express my concern about the potential cumulative effects of industrial wind turbine development on Fort Drum’s ability to execute current and future missions. I remain supportive of clean and renewable energy development in the North Country and understand its potential for long term economic benefits. However, we need to adequately assess its impact on military readiness. Military readiness today, relevance tomorrow, and the safety of our service members is paramount when evaluating and approving the location of these projects. In recent months, I have grown increasingly concerned that the Department of the Army (DA) and the Department of Defense (DoD) are not appropriately considering the cumulative impact of industrial wind development projects on Fort Drum and other installations around the country. I urge the DA and DoD to heavily scrutinize each project throughout the approval process to ensure aggregate effects of new wind turbine construction are factored into determinations of “no hazard.” Fort Drum is finalizing a Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) that will assist in guiding our strategies on identifying areas for compatible land use and best growth management practices. In 2012, the first established Mitigation Response Team (MRT) addressed rapid industrial wind turbine development in the North Country and advised the DoD Siting Clearinghouse on adverse impacts to Fort Drum’s mission. Unfortunately, I remain concerned subsequent MRTs have not assessed the cumulative impacts of an additional 12 proposed industrial wind projects within a 30-mile radius of Fort Drum. Additionally, the MRT did not adequately address adverse impacts on the DoD Doppler weather radar system specifically sited to support Fort Drum, the effects of ground based clutter on Wheeler Sack Army Airfield’s digital airport surveillance radar (DASR-11), and failed to account for the effect of industrial wind turbine development on the future airspace requirements. The Air Force and Air National Guard currently conduct specialized training missions, and we must protect this training opportunity for F-35s and other manned and unmanned aircraft to approach targets utilizing the proper air space corridors. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, ELISE M. STEFANIK Member of Congress ###
09.11.2017	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 3272, the Veterans Education Empowerment Act – bipartisan legislation to reauthorize a Department of Education grant program to assist student veterans through the implementation of Veteran Student Centers. Under this program, educational institutions enrolling a significant number of student veterans are eligible to receive grants of up to $500,000. The transition from active duty to student life presents many challenges for our veterans. Many student veterans have been away from school for long periods, have families to support, or are dealing with service-related disabilities such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. The creation of Veteran Student Centers at institutions of higher learning will not only help student veterans get the support they need in their personal and academic lives, but will also help them navigate an oftentimes confusing patchwork of state and federal financial aid programs. “Our district is the proud home of more veterans than any district in New York and they deserve access to educational opportunities that will help them better adjust to civilian life,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Veterans Education Empowerment Act will help ensure our heroes are able to use the education benefits they earned through their service for our nation. I will continue working in Congress to help our student veterans acquire the skills and training they need to successfully transition to civilian life, and I am proud to join this bipartisan effort.” ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, as Houston continues to recover from Hurricane Harvey, Florida prepares for Hurricane Irma, and Hurricane Juan gains strength in the Atlantic Ocean, Congressman Scott Peters (D-CA-52) and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) re-introduced the bipartisan Strengthening the Resiliency of Our Nation on the Ground (STRONG) Act that would help communities better prepare for natural disasters. The bill provides communities with access to information needed to prepare, plan for, and recover from natural disasters such as hurricanes and wildfires through the creation of a national resiliency information clearinghouse. This would allow states and localities to more quickly adapt planning and response techniques that have been successfully deployed in other parts of the country, making them more resilient to disasters and reducing recovery costs. “We can’t keep waiting for the next Harvey, or the next Irma, or the next big fire to finally have a national vision for strengthening community resiliency in the face of these increasing extreme weather events,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Communities need to be preparing for disasters now, rather than just waiting for a check from the federal government after tragedy strikes. The STRONG Act would better equip state and local leaders with the tools they need to plan ahead and make their communities more resilient. Governors and Mayors would be able to see what is working in other parts of the country and harness the expertise of the federal government to adapt those solutions to their communities. This will reduce recovery costs, get people back on their feet more quickly, and in some cases, save lives.” At introduction, the STRONG Act had 14 co-sponsors. “This bipartisan legislation takes a proactive approach to disaster relief,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Natural disasters should be prepared for in advance to better ensure families, businesses and communities are ready when they strike. This commonsense legislation will help protect communities across the country from these devastating events.” Every dollar invested in disaster mitigation and resiliency saves an estimated four dollars in recovery and restoration costs. In response to the increase in weather-related disasters across the country, Rep. Peters is urging Congressional leaders to either pass the STRONG Act, or attach it to the next disaster relief package. Reps. Peters and Stefanik voted in favor of the initial $8 billion Hurricane Harvey relief bill. Estimates on the total cost of the storm range from $75 billion to $190 billion, which would make it the costliest disaster in American history. In addition to creating an information center for state and local governments, the STRONG Act also achieves long-term savings through other factors: it establishes a Federal interagency working group to maximize government efficiency in its support of state, local, and private sector resiliency efforts; makes sure that all levels of government are communicating weather information effectively; and creates a unified strategic vision for resiliency efforts across the Federal government moving forward. ###
09.08.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the Senate amendment to H.R. 601 – the READ Act – which provides emergency funding for Harvey Relief and provides government funding and borrowing authority until December 8th, 2017. “This important legislation provides needed disaster relief as well as government funding while we finish our appropriations bills in the House,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. ““Thousands and thousands of families across Texas were devastated by Hurricane Harvey, and the local response from our district has been overwhelming. The federal government needs to provide disaster relief for situations like this, and as Hurricane Irma moves closer to the United States, it’s important that Congress signals that we will support relief from these devastating natural disasters.” This legislation passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 316-90. Senate Amendment to the House-Passed Hurricane Supplemental Hurricane Supplemental The emergency supplemental appropriation provides $15.25 billion in emergency funding for the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), the Small Business Administration (SBA), and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to fund the initial response and recovery efforts following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. $7.4 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) within FEMA will provide critical funding to assist the ongoing federal response to hurricanes and continue life-saving response and recovery efforts. The DRF provides assistance to states and localities for emergency protection, debris removal, repair and restoration of public infrastructure, and financial assistance to eligible disaster survivors. $450 million for SBA's Disaster Loan Program to assist small businesses and homeowners. The SBA program provides low-interest loans which, in a declared disaster, can be used to repair or replace real estate, personal property, machinery and equipment, and inventory and business assets. $7.4 billion for Community Development Block Grants through HUD for disaster relief, recovery, and restoration of infrastructure and housing in disaster areas. Continuing Resolution The legislation also continues to fund the government through December 8, 2017. Allows the Disaster Relief Fund spending flexibility to accommodate Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, and other ongoing disaster response efforts. The legislation also extends the National Flood Insurance Program through December 8, 2017. Additional anomalies are included to ensure continued authorization and funding for certain programs through the duration of the Continuing Resolution. Debt Limit The legislation extends the debt limit through December 8, 2017. ###
09.08.2017	Washington, DC – Last evening, the House of Representatives approved a bipartisan amendment authored by Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) and cosponsored by Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) that restores $4.4 million in fiscal year 2018 federal funding for the Lake Champlain Basin Program (LCBP). The amendment rejects the recommendations of President Trump and the House Appropriations Committee to eliminate funding for the program. “Lake Champlain is the environmental crown jewel of our region,” said Rep. Welch. “It is central to our cultural heritage and natural history and an invaluable recreational and economic resource. My amendment will ensure that the Lake Champlain Basin Program continues its vital mission to protect and preserve this great lake for generations to come.” "The Lake Champlain Basin Program is critical to protecting this North Country treasure from invasive species and to protecting its biodiversity," said Rep. Stefanik. "In my lifetime, I have watched the detrimental effects that zebra mussels have had as they migrated into the waters of Lake Champlain. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Invasive Species Caucus, I was pleased to work on this amendment to ensure this program received the full funding necessary to protect Lake Champlain. I thank Congressman Welch for his leadership on this bipartisan effort." The Lake Champlain Basin Program was created in 1990 and is a regional collaboration between Vermont, New York, and the Province of Quebec to restore and protect Lake Champlain and its surrounding watershed. The program provides technical resources and grants to private organizations, local communities, and individuals to support efforts that benefit Lake Champlain’s water quality, fisheries, wetlands, wildlife, recreation, and cultural resources. The Welch-Stefanik bipartisan amendment was added to the fiscal year 2018 omnibus appropriations bill (H.R. 3354) on a voice vote. Text of the amendment can be found HERE. ###
09.07.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced an additional series of Federal Emergency Management Agency grants awarded to NY-21 fire departments under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The AFG Program was created to enhance the ability of first responders to protect the health and safety of the public from fire and related hazards. Any fire department, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Service (EMS) agency, or State Fire Training Academy can apply. “I am pleased to announce that critical AFG grants have been extended to four more fire departments in our district. I’m happy to continue supporting our district’s firefighters as they navigate the Federal grant process,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Federal funding secured under the AFG program for the firefighters in our district will ensure they have the resources they need to keep us safe. I am committed to fighting for our North Country first responders.” Information about the four fire departments receiving FEMA AFG grants can be found below: Gouverneur Volunteer Fire Department Grant amount: $65,286 Granville Engine and Hose Company Grant Amount: $47,493 Glens Falls Fire Department Grant Amount: $17,077 City of Ogdensburg Fire Department Grant Amount: $181,334 ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass legislation to provide supplemental emergency funding to address the response and recovery needs from Hurricane Harvey. This legislation provides the full amount requested by the Administration – totaling $7.85 billion in emergency funding, including $7.4 billion for FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund (DRF). “Thousands and thousands of families across Texas were devastated by this terrible storm, and the local response from our district has been overwhelming,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We’ve seen so many North Country families step up to volunteer and donate to the Harvey Relief efforts, and brave soldiers from Fort Drum have also been deployed. The federal government needs to provide disaster relief for situations like this, and as Hurricane Irma moves closer to the United States, it’s important that Congress signals that we will support relief from these devastating natural disasters. I was pleased to work in a bipartisan fashion with my colleagues today to pass this critical aid package.” ###
09.05.2017	Watertown, NY– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture of three grants for projects in New York’s 21st district, including Cornell Cooperative Extension of SLC (NY-21), St. Lawrence County IDA (NY-21), and North Country Chamber of Commerce (NY-21). “These Rural Development grants will help grow jobs right here in the North Country, and I applaud the USDA for making this a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These important grants will help support the infrastructure and agriculture needs of our district – two pivotal sectors to helping our economy grow. Economic growth and job creation for our district continues to be my top priority, and I will continue to push in Congress for policies that will help create good paying jobs for North Country families.” "This USDA funding is allowing us to professionally staff the North American Center of Excellence for Transportation Equipment, a new initiative in support of the more than thirty transportation equipment and aerospace companies across the North Country," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "Together with a number of other grant awards in the region, this round of announcements will further a number of economic development aims in the North Country. We thank Congresswoman Stefanik and her office for actively working with us on this funding opportunity." ###
08.31.2017	Watertown, NY– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a Department of Transportation grant totaling $1,017,863.00 for Watertown International Airport. “Improving our airport infrastructure means more commerce and tourism for our region, and I am pleased to announce this important funding for Watertown International Airport,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Improving our North Country infrastructure is important to our local economy, and I thank the Department of Transportation for making this funding a priority.” Details of the DOT grant are as follows: DOT Grant Award Notice Date: 08/30/2017 Title: Watertown International: Install Apron Edge Lights, Install Apron Lighting, Reconstruct Apron [Easte Disc. Grant Amount: $1,017,863.00 Grant Recipient: County of Jefferson Project Location: Watertown International Locality: Watertown,Jefferson , NY Description: Install Apron Edge Lights, Install Apron Lighting, Reconstruct Apron [Eastern Section], Rehabilitate Apron [Western Section] NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF DOT DISCRETIONARY GRANT AWARDS: This notification is provided to the Committee pursuant to one of the following requirements governing the public announcement of a Department of Transportation discretionary grant, letter of intent, or Federal Transit Administration full funding grant agreement: (1) Currently applicable General Provision of the Appropriations Act, Continuing Resolution, or Supplemental Appropriation governing Department of Transportation appropriations, containing a prohibition on the use of funds made available unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriation at least three full business days before the Department or its operating administrations announces any discretionary grant award, letter of intent, or full funding grant agreement from: (A) any discretionary grant or federal credit program of the FHWA, including the emergency relief program; (B) the airport improvement program of the FAA; (C) any program of the FRA; (D) any program of the FTA other than the formula grants and fixed guideway modernization programs; (E) any program of the Maritime Administration; or (F) any funding provided under the heading â€˜â€˜National Infrastructure Investmentsâ€™â€™ in the Appropriations Act; (2) Section 311 of title 49, United States Code; (3) Section 159(b) of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (AIR-21); or (4) Section 5334(j) of title 49, United States Code. Please click on the link below to view the Notification http://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=8i5qd292pi ###
08.16.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a series of Federal Emergency Management Agency grants awarded to NY-21 fire departments under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The AFG Program was created to enhance the ability of first responders to protect the health and safety of the public from fire and related hazards. Any fire department, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Service (EMS) agency, or State Fire Training Academy can apply. “I am pleased to announce that two of our district’s fire departments have been awarded crucial grants under the AFG program, and I’m happy to support our district’s firefighters as they navigate the Federal grant process.” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Federal funding secured under the AFG program for the Lorraine Volunteer Fire Company and the Hammond Fire and Rescue Department will ensure they have the resources they need to keep us safe. I am committed to fighting for our North Country first responders.” ###
08.04.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a series of Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) grants totaling $1.75 million for infrastructure projects around New York’s 21st Congressional District. “I am pleased to announce significant grants from the Northern Border Regional Commission that will go a long way toward improving our North Country infrastructure. ” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I’m proud that my office was able to help secure this necessary funding. Infrastructure is critical to creating jobs and increasing economic opportunity, and I applaud the NBRC for their announcement. In Congress, I will continue working to improve our local infrastructure.” “The Town of Plattsburgh is elated to receive support for our Water Capital Plan. These funds will directly impact our ability to address the health/safety, economic sustainability, and manage the continued development interests in our town.” said Michael Cashman, Plattsburgh Town Supervisor “The Northern Border Regional Commission supports our position as the Economic Hub of the North County and a regional source for water. We are extremely appreciative of the partnership with Congresswoman Stefanik who aided in securing these funds.” Details of the NBRC grants are as follows: Town of Plattsburgh: $500,000 award – Installation of two 12-inch water production wells and a 20 by 30 foot treatment building for chlorination and fluoridation. St. Lawrence County: $500,000 award – To reestablish safe access to rail infrastructure through removal of dilapidated structures. Jefferson County Industrial Development Agency: $500,000 – To install new natural gas lines, electric service, wastewater lines, and to establish a new business park adjacent to the Watertown International Airport. Ogdensburg Growth Fund Development Corporation: $250,000 – For subordination of loans to businesses that are creating new jobs in the community. ###
08.03.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) congratulated Kelly Craft for her confirmation as Ambassador to Canada. Upon confirmation, Kraft became the first woman ever to hold the position. “I would like to congratulate Ambassador Kelly Craft on her confirmation by the U.S. Senate” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In the North Country, we know that Canada is more than a bordering nation -- they are our neighbors, friends, and trading partners. Plattsburgh has even branded itself as Montreal’s ‘U.S. Suburb,’ with 15 percent of its area workforce working for a Canadian or border-related employer. I have already reached out to Ambassador Craft to schedule a meeting with me and a delegation of key stakeholders from our district. I look forward to working with Ambassador Kraft to further strengthen our special relationship with Canada, and to improve commerce and tourism between our two nations.” "No relationship is more important to our region than our relationship with Canada, and so we welcome the Senate's confirmation of Kelly Craft as the new U.S. Ambassador in Ottawa," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "With NAFTA negotiations coming up soon, the North Country has a role to play in helping to see that no harm is done while we also pursue shared opportunities for advancing shared prosperity. We thank Congresswoman Stefanik for reaching out for the earliest possible connection with Ambassador Craft and we look forward to meeting with her soon and then working actively with her to advance the U.S.-Canadian economic partnership, using the North Country as a model." ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues in urging Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to make milk an agricultural commodity eligible under the Federal Crop Insurance program. This would allow North Country dairy producers to participate in the Federal Crop Insurance Program which provides yield and revenue insurance. The text of the lawmakers’ letter is below, or for a digital copy, click here. The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary of Agriculture U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave, SW Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue, We write today to urge the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to use its existing authority to provide relief for dairy farmers. Specifically, we request you take necessary steps to make milk an agricultural commodity eligible under the Federal Crop Insurance program. New York is a major dairy producing state. The state has witnessed meaningful growth in the last several years, which has been an important economic driver for producers, processors, and surrounding communities. In 2016, New York dairy farms produced nearly 15 billion pounds of milk, with an initial value of over $2.5 billion. Despite the sectors’ strength and efficiency, dairy farmers have had to cope with a 30 percent price decline since 2014. These struggles are amplified by ongoing difficulties with the Margin Protection Program (MPP) and a lack of other risk management options. In 2015, 1,397 New York dairy producers enrolled in MPP buy-up coverage. The program’s failure contributed to its dramatic decline in participation. In 2017, 60 producers signed up above the catastrophic coverage level. Low signup is clear evidence that MPP isn’t providing farmers the needed risk protection. As Congress begins the work to reauthorize the Farm Bill, we intend to make necessary reforms to this program. In the meantime, we believe it’s imperative that the USDA take action given MPP’s failure. We respectfully request that the Risk Management Agency (RMA) and the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) utilize existing authorities to expand and enhance insurance products for dairy farmers. Milk, as a commodity, must be eligible for policies through the Federal Crop Insurance program. Existing statue defines the term ‘livestock’ as the actual animal and not the product produced. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 included report language clarifying that Congress did not intend for livestock products to fall under the limitation of livestock insurance policies. USDA, RMA, and the FCIC have authority to determine that the two products are distinctly different commodities. We request that RMA work with FCIC to determine milk as a distinct agricultural commodity eligible for Federal Crop Insurance coverage. Additionally, we would urge the RMA to use existing authorities to develop additional dairy insurance products. Thank you for considering these concerns. Sincerely, ###
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 3219 – the Make America Secure Appropriations Act of 2018. This important appropriations bill prioritizes funds for our troops, veterans and their families, U.S. Capitol Police, nuclear security, and our nation’s waterways infrastructure. “This funding bill makes good on many priorities for our district and for our nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased this legislation maintains the goals my colleagues and I on the House Armed Services Committee laid out in the National Defense Authorization Act by rebuilding the military, providing funding to house, train, and equip military personnel, providing housing and services to military families, and helping maintain base infrastructure. “This legislation also makes good on my commitment to give our troops the largest pay raise in eight years, fully funds veterans’ benefits and programs, and provides needed support for veterans’ suicide prevention. “I am also pleased this legislation included increased funding for programs that help combat invasive species – an important issue for our beautiful region. “I will continue to fight for the needs of our district throughout the appropriations process.” During debate on this legislation, Rep. Stefanik helped defeat an amendment that would have prohibited implementation of the Davis-Bacon Act. Important priorities in this legislation include: Boosts military base funding for DoD 13 percent above FY17 enacted levels, or $68.1 Billion. Fully funds the authorized 2.4 percent troop pay raise—the largest in 8 years. This legislation provides funds for the construction and maintenance of facilities to enable our military to fight current and emerging threats, to support increased troop levels, and to sustain services for military families. Increases funding by 25 percent for the construction of military infrastructure ($10.2B total) Highest funding level ever for the VA ($78.3B, an increase of 5 percent above FY17). Includes an amendment Rep. Stefanik cosponsored to support funding for a DoD Cybersecurity scholarship program in order to help overcome the challenges of recruiting and retaining cyber security personnel. This legislation allocates additional funds that provide resources for important priorities within the VA, such as suicide prevention, claims processing, homeless prevention and care, opioid addiction, and medical research. Increased funding for Army Corps of Engineers environmental infrastructure projects Increased funding for Army Corps of Engineers Aquatic Nuisance Control Research Program Increased funding for Aquatic Plant Control Research Program Allows the EPA and Secretary of the Army to withdraw from the flawed WOTUS rule Allows lawful possession of a firearm on Army Corps of Engineers Water Resources Development Projects Over $1.1 billion for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs Provides an additional $100 million for Army Corps of Engineers flood control construction $6.5 million for Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve For a summary of the legislation, click here. ###
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Ted Deutch (D-FL-22) introduced the Canadian Snowbird Visa Act – bipartisan legislation to extend by two months the time Canadians who own or lease a home in the United States can travel in the United States. “In the North Country, we know how important Canadian visitors are to our small business owners and to our tourism economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In my district, we share the St. Lawrence River with our Canadian friends who frequently cross the border in the summer months to boat, hike, kayak, or visit one of our many historical sites. Providing them with an extra two months to engage in these activities will support many small businesses, grow jobs, and foster an ever closer relationship with our neighbors to the north. I urge my colleagues to support this important, bipartisan legislation.” "If our chilly neighbors to the north want to spend more time on our warm Florida beaches, we should welcome them with open arms," said Congressman Deutch. "Canadians contribute over $4 billion to Florida’s economy every year, helping to create jobs and support businesses in our communities. This bipartisan legislation will boost our economy and create new jobs by inviting more Canadian visitors to visit the Sunshine State for even longer stays." "This bill will provide Canadian retirees with greater flexibility in their ability to travel to the United States annually,” said Karen Huestis, President, Canadian Snowbird Association. “We commend Reps. Stefanik and Deutch for spearheading this initiative. "Current U.S. law limits the amount of time a Canadian visitor may spend in the U.S. to 182 days per year. The Canadian Snowbird Visa act would permit Canadians over the age of 50 who own or rent a U.S. residence to stay in the United States for an additional two months each year. These Canadian visitors would be prohibited from working for a U.S. employer and from being eligible for various forms of public assistance. Moreover, they would remain fully subject to the vetting process imposed by current law. Canada provides more visitors to the United States than any other country. Many of these visitors own or rent homes in the United States, and spend their winters along our beaches or in our national parks. Canadian visitors provide a substantial economic boost to communities throughout our country, spending almost $20 billion in the United States in 2016, and purchasing on average $13.1 billion of U.S. residential real estate each year. In New York, nearly 4 million Canadians visit the Empire State a year, spending $1.5 billion. In Florida, 3.6 million Canadians visit the Sunshine state, spending $4.5 billion annually. This legislation would benefit communities throughout the United States, given that Canadian visitors take full advantage of the diversity of experiences our country offers. Click here for bill text. ###
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 3364 – the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act. This legislation passed the House by a vote of 419-3. “We continue to see report after report of these nations working to undermine stability around the globe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The United States must use our leverage where appropriate to rein in the behavior of these rogue regimes, and I was pleased to support this bipartisan legislation in the House today. Whether through ICBM testing, cyber-attacks or support for terrorist organizations, these nations continue to threaten the safety of people around the world. As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure our military has the resources they need to counter the efforts of these regimes.” To read more on what this legislation does, click here. ###
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the full House of Representatives passed legislation introduced by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) that will give military spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member, giving them the benefit of keeping the same state of residency for voting and tax purposes. H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act, was passed unanimously by voice vote. Congresswoman Stefanik took to the House floor today to urge her colleagues to support this legislation; for video of her remarks, click here. The transcript is below: Mr. Speaker, my legislation gives military spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member, giving them the benefit of retaining the same state of residency for voting and tax purposes. As the proud representative of Fort Drum and the Navy Site at Kesselring which I visited just this past Friday, I have heard firsthand about the challenges that military families face, and I have the highest respect for the sacrifices these families make to help protect our nation and safeguard our freedom. Military families must relocate every few years due to their spouse’s responsibility to meet the requirements of the military. They sacrifice a great deal during these relocations—uprooting their lives and disrupting their families—all while serving as the critical support system for their loved ones. This is often a difficult and challenging time, with the heaviest burden falling upon military spouses. Current law allows active duty service members to maintain one state of legal residence for tax and voting purposes, even when service members receive military orders requiring them to relocate. But this does not apply to the service members’ spouse. Essentially, this loophole requires spouses to establish residency every time the service member receives a new assignment—adding undue stress and anxiety to military families already under the pressure of managing their relocation. This legislation fixes this inconsistency. Military spouses serve too, and this bill eliminates the daunting task of documenting multiple tax jurisdictions and helps reduces instances of military spousal unemployment. Traveling across the North Country of New York, I have listened to the sacrifices our military families make to keep our nation safe. We have a duty to reduce these burdens they face. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I urge my colleagues again to support this bill on a bipartisan basis. I yield back the balance of my time. House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe said: “Our military families make tremendous sacrifices, and we must do everything we can to support them. I thank Rep. Stefanik for her leadership on this important bill that would ease the burden placed on military spouses when their family is relocated.” More information on this legislation can be found here: https://stefanik.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/stefanik-testifies-va-subcommittee-her-military-spouse-legislation https://stefanik.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/stefanik-military-residency-choice-act-passes-va-committee https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/282 This follows recent House passage of the FY2018 NDAA, which included two other Stefanik initiatives for military families, the Lift Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act and The Military Family Stability Act: https://stefanik.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/fy2018-ndaa-passes-house-key-stefanik-provisions Read more about this package of military family bills here: https://medium.com/@RepStefanik/supporting-military-families-d03305f981ee ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a Department of Transportation grant totaling $3,427,830.00 for Plattsburgh International Airport. “I am pleased to announce this important funding for Plattsburgh International Airport, and I thank the Department of Transportation for making this a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Improving our airports means more commerce and tourism for our region. Plattsburgh continues to grow as an economic hub for our district and I will continue to work in Congress to develop our local infrastructure.” Details of the DOT grant are as follows: DOT Grant Award Notice Date: 07/19/2017 Title: Plattsburgh International: Rehabilitate Runway - 17/35 Disc. Grant Amount: $3,427,830.00 Grant Recipient: County of Clinton Project Location: Plattsburgh International Locality: Plattsburgh,Clinton , NY Description: Rehabilitate Runway - 17/35 NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF DOT DISCRETIONARY GRANT AWARDS: This notification is provided to the Committee pursuant to one of the following requirements governing the public announcement of a Department of Transportation discretionary grant, letter of intent, or Federal Transit Administration full funding grant agreement: (1) Currently applicable General Provision of the Appropriations Act, Continuing Resolution, or Supplemental Appropriation governing Department of Transportation appropriations, containing a prohibition on the use of funds made available unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriation at least three full business days before the Department or its operating administrations announces any discretionary grant award, letter of intent, or full funding grant agreement from: (A) any discretionary grant or federal credit program of the FHWA, including the emergency relief program; (B) the airport improvement program of the FAA; (C) any program of the FRA; (D) any program of the FTA other than the formula grants and fixed guideway modernization programs; (E) any program of the Maritime Administration; or (F) any funding provided under the heading â€˜â€˜National Infrastructure Investmentsâ€™â€™ in the Appropriations Act; (2) Section 311 of title 49, United States Code; (3) Section 159(b) of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (AIR-21); or (4) Section 5334(j) of title 49, United States Code. Please click on the link below to view the Notification https://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=67fh3y85s5 ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Elise Stefanik (NY-21) and Kathleen Rice (NY-4) introduced new legislation that would create two committees made up of public school teachers and parents and family members of public school students to advise the U.S. Secretary of Education and report to Congress about a range of issues related to students, teachers and family engagement in education. H.R. 3246, the Teachers and Parents at the Table Act, would establish a Teachers Advisory Committee made up of public school teachers who have demonstrated policy expertise and represent the full diversity of the teaching workforce, with members from multiple geographic, grade level and specialty areas. The Committee would advise the Secretary and report to Congress about their experiences with federal education policies at the local level, as well as a range of other important issues, including testing and assessment policies, the equitable distribution of teachers, the effects of the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), and other relevant topics. Likewise, the legislation would create a second committee made up of public school parents and family members who have a demonstrated history of parental involvement and family engagement in school and represent multiple geographic areas and a diversity of students, including economically disadvantaged students, students from major racial and ethnic groups, children with disabilities, English learners, and students who are members of an Indian tribe or tribal organization. Consideration would also be given to representation of students' gender identity, migrant status, and residence in rural areas. The Parents and Family Members Advisory Committee would advise the Secretary and report to Congress on parental involvement and family engagement in education and offer direction for state and local education authorities to improve family engagement. “Our education system works best when teachers and parents are closely involved with the decisions affecting students,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation simply gives our teachers and parents a direct channel to the Secretary of Education as important decisions are made. A quality education is a great equalizer in our nation, and I will continue to work in Congress to ensure our future generations have the chance to succeed.” “The federal government has important roles to play when it comes to crafting national education policies, but we only do ourselves a disservice if we fail to draw on the input, advice and expertise of the people who implement and see the effects of those policies every day in classrooms and homes across the country,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Teachers, parents and family members know better than anyone what our students need to succeed, and creating these committees will give them a seat at the table and give us the benefit of all the knowledge and experience they have to offer. I’m proud to introduce this common-sense legislation, and I look forward to working together to get it passed with the bipartisan support it deserves.” “When our nation’s outstanding educators are at the policy table, policymakers can make informed decisions that truly improve teaching and learning,” said Katherine Bassett, NNSTOY President and CEO. “NNSTOY is proud to support the Teachers and Parents at the Table Act, a bill that will help policymakers, educators and parents to create the conditions, capacity and culture to ensure all students get an excellent education.” “Teachers, parents and family members provide critical expertise and perspective on the classroom and their children. It is essential that they have a seat at the table whenever policies and decisions are made that impact students and schools,” said Jim Accomando, president of National PTA. “National PTA commends Representatives Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) for their leadership in introducing the Teachers and Parents at the Table Act and for their commitment to the importance of family and teacher engagement in policymaking to improve education and ensure every child reaches their fullest potential.” The full text of H.R. 3246 is available here. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC– Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs passed Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s legislation, H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act. This legislation will give military spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member, giving them the benefit of keeping the same state of residency for voting and tax purposes. This bill passed the Committee unanimously by voice vote. “I thank Chairman Roe and the Members of the VA Committee for their work to advance this important legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Military families make great sacrifices for the protection of our nation and the safeguarding of our freedom. For instance, military families must relocate every few years due to their spouse’s responsibility to meet the requirements of the military. They sacrifice a great deal during these relocations—uprooting their lives and disrupting their families—all while remaining committed to their duty as the spouse of a service member and serving as the critical support system for their loved ones. “Current law allows active duty service members to maintain one state of legal residence for tax and voting purposes, even when service members receive military orders requiring them to relocate. Under this law, spouses are only granted the same benefit if the service member and spouse have established the same tax residence at the time of their marriage. Essentially, this requires spouses to establish residency every time the service member receives orders with assignment to a new location—adding undue stress and anxiety to military families already under the pressure of managing their relocation. “H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act, will give military spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member, giving them the benefit of keeping the same state of residency for voting and tax purposes. “Military spouses serve too, and this piece of legislation eliminates the daunting task of documenting multiple tax jurisdictions, which at times causes some spouses to forego the complication of working all together.” On June 29th, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik testified before the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on this legislation. Click here for her testimony. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC–Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21), along with Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), John Katko (NY-24) and Claudia Tenney (NY-22) introduced the Northern Border Regional Commission Reauthorization Act of 2017, which would continue funding for the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) and extend its authorization for five years. The bill would also allow the NBRC to include promoting the development of renewable energy resources to meet their 40% minimum of projects, and it would permit NBRC to attract businesses from outside the United States. "This legislation is critical to growing our North Country economy and creating good paying jobs in our region," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "As a Member of the Northern Border Caucus, I am pleased to support this important reauthorization and will continue to work with my colleagues to expand the economy along our Canadian border." “The Northern Border Regional Commission plays a critical role in driving the economic growth and community development in some of New Hampshire’s most economically distressed communities,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “This is a program that has created jobs while improving rural infrastructure projects and both Republicans and Democrats recognize the value of the Northern Border Regional Commission to rural communities in the Northeast. While President Trump regrettably eliminated the NBRC in his FY2018 budget, this bill demonstrates the NBRC’s strong bipartisan support in Congress and our collective commitment to helping rural towns and non-profits succeed. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this commonsense legislation in the next Farm Bill.” “I’m proud to cosponsor legislation to reauthorize the Northern Border Regional Commission,” said Congresswoman Pingree. “The NBRC has been a critical source of flexible federal investment for Maine communities in need, and has supported necessary infrastructure improvements, facility upgrades, and economic development. As Maine continues to take its economy in new directions, we can’t afford to lose this valuable partner.” “The Northern Border Regional Commission plays a vital role in spurring development in some of Vermont’s most economically challenged communities,” said Rep. Welch. “The success of the NBRC has shown that by funding local economic development, we not only jumpstart local economies but we lay the groundwork for long-term investment in the region. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that Congress continues supporting this essential program for Vermont and other border communities.” “The bipartisan support for this bill reflects the importance of the Northern Border Regional Commission and the broad recognition that it must continue performing its critical economic development work in Northern New Hampshire and beyond,” said Congresswoman Shea-Porter. “I’m glad to join with my colleagues in this effort to preserve the boost this Commission gives to a historically underserved region of the country.” Created by the 2008 Farm Bill, the NBRC is a Federal-State partnership that is comprised of a Federal Co-Chair and the Governors of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont and New York. The commission was established to organize federal funding towards specific state economic and community development projects in rural parts of the Northeast. Currently, the NBRC is required to provide at least 40% of their grants to develop 1) transportation infrastructure of the region, 2) basic public infrastructure of the region, and 3) to develop the telecommunications infrastructure in the region. The commission is also currently prohibited from trying to attract businesses from other regions within the NBRC. ###
07.18.2017	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21) is calling for reforms to the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy) in the Fiscal Year 2018 Farm Bill. In a letter to Rep. Mike Conaway, Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture, Stefanik joined New York Reps. Claudia Tenney (NY-22), John Faso (NY-19), Tom Reed (NY-23) John Katko (NY-24) and Chris Collins (NY-27) in requesting reforms to the 2018 Farm Bill that would make programs more effective for family farmers in upstate New York. Although the MPP-Dairy program is fairly new, it has underperformed for the farmers of New York State in its first two years. Throughout the nation, dairy producers paid millions of dollars in premium payments, but received very little return on their investments. Important reforms to the MPP-Dairy program include reducing premium rates, and providing a viable safety net for dairy farmers in the coming years. “As we work toward the next Farm Bill, I will continue to fight for the priorities of our North Country farmers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Dairy is critical to our agriculture economy and I am pleased to join my colleagues on this important push to support our local farmers.” “In the 22nd District, family farmers are the backbone of our communities and economy,” said Congresswoman Tenney. “That’s why I’m working to ensure that our policies help family farmers grow and compete. Excessive premiums in the MPP-Dairy program only hurt small and medium sized farmers. Reforming the MPP-Dairy program will make the program more effective and affordable for dairy farmers throughout upstate.” “The dairy industry is vitally important to Upstate economies and the people across the country who consume dairy products on a daily basis. The Dairy Margin Protection Program, while well-intentioned, is in need of reforms that will make it more usable for farmers. As we consider the 2018 Farm Bill we must also consider programs like this and the need for reforms to better serve our nation’s dairy farmers,” said Congressman Faso. “Hardworking farmers across Upstate New York deserve to compete on an even playing field. I am happy to join with others in the New York delegation in calling for reforms to the MPP-Dairy program. New York dairy farmers deserve to benefit from their investment in this program,” said Congressman Reed. “Central New York’s vast dairy industry is vital to our local economy, and I’m committed to fighting for policies that will ensure small, family farms can grow and thrive,” said Congressman Katko. “As the House begins its work on the Farm Bill, I’ve joined with my colleagues from across the region to highlight the need to improve MPP-Dairy and ensure this program is affordable and efficient for small family farms in New York State.” “All stakeholders know that reforms need to be made to the MPP, and the dairy farmers in Western New York deserve a workable program that aids in their success. We look forward to working with Chairman Conaway and the Agriculture committee to find a solution that makes this program more effective and affordable,” said Congressman Collins. As the fourth largest milk-producing state in the nation, local economies throughout New York rely heavily on the nearly 5,000 family owned dairy farms. Local farms provide a number of jobs that help to stabilize rural upstate communities, while making significant impacts on the national agricultural and food manufacturing industry. The full text of the letter can be found below. 07/14/2017 The Honorable Mike Conaway Chairman House Committee on Agriculture 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Conaway: As members of Congress representing Upstate New York’s dairy industry, we thank you for your early start to the 2018 Farm Bill process and we are grateful for your efforts to complete the Farm Bill on time. We appreciate you being a steadfast advocate for rural America by pointing out that agriculture has contributed significantly to deficit reduction, and that should be accounted for during work on the new Farm Bill. New York is the fourth largest milk-producing state in the nation, and in some years has been the third. Upstate New York includes nearly 5,000 family-owned dairy farms totaling more than 600,000 cows that produce roughly seven percent of the U.S. milk supply on an annual basis. These family farmers are the lifeblood of many of the communities we represent and the fresh milk they produce supports many jobs in the agricultural and food manufacturing sectors of our economy. As you know, the dairy industry in New York and nationwide has faced significant struggles in recent years. Our current trade challenges with Canada are particularly acute in Upstate New York, a major manufacturer of ultrafiltered milk, and our producers continue to struggle with labor costs and challenges. Moreover, milk prices deteriorated significantly last year, causing dairy farmers added pain during an already challenging climate. Against this backdrop, a top priority for all of us in the Farm Bill will be reforming the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy). While this program is fairly new, it has not performed to the expectations of our dairy farmers. In 2015 and 2016, the first two years of the program, dairy producers paid millions of dollars in premium payments but received very little return on this investment, even though last year was a very difficult year for our dairy farmers by all accounts. Therefore, we are eager to work with you to improve MPP-Dairy to make it more effective and affordable for dairy farmers. We understand that the program's current formula does not fully reflect producer costs, so we are interested in improving the program to better reflect the margins and challenges producers face to provide them a viable safety net for the coming years. We are also interested in looking carefully at the premium rates in MPP-Dairy, especially given the disparity between what producers have paid in and what they have received even during difficult years. Reducing some of the premium rates, especially those targeted to small and medium-sized farmers, could be an important step in helping farmers to better afford more meaningful coverage. We recognize that there will be budgetary limitations in the Farm Bill process, as there always are, and we stand ready to work with you to craft a Farm Bill that supports all of rural America. For us in rural Upstate New York, dairy farming is one of the most dominant sectors of our region, so a healthier dairy industry means a stronger economy. Thank you for your consideration. We are eager to work with you. Sincerely, Rep. Claudia Tenney Rep. Elise Stefanik Rep. John Faso Rep. John Katko Rep. Chris Collins Rep. Tom Reed ###
07.14.2017	Washington, DC—Today, Representatives Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Claudia Tenney (NY-22), Chris Collins (NY-27), Louise Slaughter (NY-25) and John Katko (NY-24) are urging President Trump to issue a disaster declaration in response to flooding along Lake Ontario. In order for President Trump to issue a disaster declaration, federal law requires that the initial request come from the governor. On July 6, 2017, Governor Cuomo officially requested that a major disaster declaration be issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Due to the severity of this flooding and persistently high water levels, Governor Cuomo determined that the scope of the relief and response efforts are beyond the capability of the state. In a bipartisan letter, the Representatives cited record high water levels in Lake Ontario and the unprecedented flooding that has had a severe and damaging impact across the eight-county region. Municipalities have struggled to keep up with the costs of repairs for critical infrastructure and without federal support, they will continue to struggle to safeguard and repair existing infrastructure and mitigate against future flooding. “Heavy rainfall earlier this year has caused historic levels of flooding along the St. Lawrence River," said Congresswoman Stefanik (NY-21). “Damage to homes, businesses, and infrastructure has been severe. My office has been working closely with officials at the state level and have had continued conversations with FEMA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Through these conversations it is clear we must act quickly to help impacted New Yorkers. I urge President Trump to approve the request for federal relief.” “Recent flooding has destroyed homes and businesses along the Lake Ontario shoreline. During a recent tour of the area, I had the chance to see the severity of the damage first hand. Our constituents and communities have suffered for long enough. It is imperative that they are compensated for the severe and irreparable damage to their properties. That’s why we are urging President Trump to issue this declaration to provide families and business owners in the region the relief that they desperately need,” said Congresswoman Tenney (NY-22). “Our constituents deserve to be compensated for the irreplaceable damage that has resulted from Barrack Obama’s support for the IJC’s disastrous Plan 2014. I’ve seen firsthand the devastation that this flooding has brought to shoreline property owners, businesses and municipalities. Now that the declaration has been requested, it is time that the federal government take this first step towards righting this terrible wrong by providing disaster relief,” said Congressman Collins (NY-27). “Shoreline communities across New York state have been hit hard by the unprecedented flooding along Lake Ontario this year. Homeowners, farmers, businesses and municipalities face grave repair costs,” said Congressman John Katko (NY-24). “I’m grateful for Governor Cuomo’s recent action requesting FEMA assistance for these communities, and today joined my colleagues to reiterate the need for the Administration to act swiftly in approving this aid." The full text of the letter can be found below. July 13, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump, On July 6, 2017, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo officially requested that a major disaster declaration be issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the State of New York in response to flooding along Lake Ontario. As members of Congress who represent areas negatively impacted by this flooding, we urge you to issue this declaration as soon as possible. In over a century of record keeping, Lake Ontario’s water levels are at their highest point ever, which has led to unprecedented flooding that has impacted an eight-county region. It has caused irreparable damage to shoreline properties and placed a significant burden on local municipalities. Damage to homes and small business has been extensive and in many cases irreversible. Unfortunately, water levels are not expected to recede anytime soon, meaning that coastal communities that depend on seasonal tourism are being dealt a tremendously hard economic blow. In addition, municipalities are struggling to keep up with the costs of repairing and protecting critical infrastructure. The water levels have destroyed breakwaters and bulkheads, overwhelmed wastewater treatment facilities, and damaged roads, bridges, and other public facilities. As communities are working to repair damage, they are also investing heavily in measures to protect existing infrastructure and mitigate against future flooding. In all, the costs of such efforts are extensive and without federal support, communities will struggle to meet their objectives. Due to the severity of the flooding and the persistently high water levels, Governor Cuomo has determined that the scope of the relief and response efforts are simply beyond that of the state. As a result, he has requested supplementary federal assistance through an expedited major disaster declaration. Having seen the extent of the damage firsthand, we agree and respectfully urge you to grant New York’s request for a major disaster declaration as expeditiously as possible. Sincerely, Rep. Claudia Tenney Rep. Chris Collins Rep. Elise M. Stefanik Rep. Louise M. Slaughter Rep. John Katko ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, voted in support of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) as it passed the House by a vote of 344-81. This legislation includes many provisions Rep. Stefanik championed during her work on the House Armed Services Committee. Additionally, Rep. Stefanik helped defeat an amendment that would have stricken language in the NDAA to require a report on the effects of climate change on our military. Those floor remarks can be seen here. “I thank my colleagues in the House, Chairman Thornberry and my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee for their work on this critical national defense legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our most important job in Congress is to provide for our national defense, and this year’s NDAA is an important step in repairing the damage done to our military readiness.” “This legislation strengthens our defense capabilities and gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe. Throughout the process of writing this bill, I was pleased to ensure our district had a pivotal seat at the table as I fought for initiatives to protect and strengthen Fort Drum, increase our readiness, and help families in our district.” Stefanik Demands Transparency and Progress for Missile Defense Congresswoman Stefanik introduced an amendment during committee markup that demands a full spectrum of factors be considered in the determination of a potential additional continental United States interceptor site. These include existing infrastructure at the location, economic impacts, public support, and the cost to construct and operate. The decision should be made 30 days following the release of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review. Congresswoman Stefanik stated, “Increasing our missile defense capabilities is critical to securing our nation as rogue regimes like North Korea seek to do us harm. I was pleased to have an amendment included in this bill to require the decision for the location of a future missile defense site be made transparently and in a timely manner. I remain steadfast in my belief that Fort Drum would make an ideal site for this installation.” Stefanik Votes in Favor of 2.4 Percent Service Member Pay Congresswoman Stefanik supported a 2.4 percent pay raise for those serving in our military. “We ask so much of our brave men and women in uniform, and I was pleased to support this well-deserved pay raise for our troops. This is the largest pay raise in five years,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Fights for Military Spousal Licensing Military spouses must relocate every few years due to their spouse’s job and requirements in the military. Congresswoman Stefanik was able to include her legislation, the Lift Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act, in the FY18 NDAA. This will require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station and expedite license portability. “Military spouses serve too – and this language will help alleviate unnecessary stress and expenses, help make job changes easier, and will give these spouses and their families some deserved predictability as they serve their nation. This has been a legislative initiative of mine since last Congress, and I am pleased to have it included in this bill. For a district home to so many military spouses, this is an important change to ease their burden,” added Stefanik. Brooke Goldberg, the director of Military Family Policy and Spouse Programs from the Military Officers Association of America stated, “Too often, military spouses face cost prohibitive application or processing fees, testing requirements and other administrative barriers as a direct result of accompanying a service member to their next permanent duty station. These costs affect the entire family’s budget. MOAA is greatly appreciative of this legislation – it is recognition that military families perform the military mission together, supporting each other’s careers, and dealing with the service sacrifice together. We believe this is a valuable retention tool, and a smart way to offset negative impacts of moving to servicemembers and their families.” Stefanik Requires Stability for Military Family Members Congresswoman Stefanik also added her legislation, The Military Family Stability Act, to the FY18 NDAA during Committee markup. This legislation improves the transition process for military families when they receive orders for a permanent change of station report date. It would provide military families with the flexibility they need to make a successful transition to their new jobs, schools, and communities. Additionally, it will allow military spouses to work up to six months in their current job, or, if they choose, move up to six months early to their next location in order to secure or begin new full-time employment. This bill would also allow military spouses to extend education they may be pursuing, or allow children in military families to smoothly transition to their new school before or after a new term begins. “As the home of Fort Drum and the Kesselring Navy nuclear site, our district knows firsthand the critical role military families play in supporting our troops and providing for our national defense,” said Stefanik. “Military families make great sacrifices when relocating and transitioning to new schools, jobs, and communities, and we must do all we can to help ease their burden.” Stefanik Includes Additive Manufactured Parts The legislation recognizes new technological capabilities that revolutionize the industrial supply chain. The ability to utilize new materials in new ways, such as titanium, has the potential to transform how the Department does business. This report language creates the potential for increased opportunities for companies within NY-21 who perform additive manufacturing or 3-D printing. “Our district continues to grow as a home to many companies that work with cutting edge technology, and I was pleased to include this language that will benefit the Department of Defense and these manufacturers,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Hails the Fort Drum Health Care Ecosystem as a Model for DoD Installations Nationwide Congresswoman Stefanik supported language that maintains the unique relationship between the Army and the Fort Drum Health Care Model and warned Members of the Committee against changes that could impact it. The model relies on Army understanding and their ability to synchronize efforts with the North Country Community. “It is important we work together to maintain the model that provides such great care to our Fort Drum and North Country families,” said Stefanik. “Furthermore, this is a successful model that other military communities can look to and learn from, and I was pleased to support this amendment. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to fight for rural hospitals like Carthage Area Hospital that face reimbursement challenges with the Defense Health Agency.” Stefanik Requires Reports to Increase Fort Drum Readiness Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added a provision that requires reports on unmanned aerial systems and Army power projection platforms. Fort Drum is a critical military installation, and we must continue to support the 10th Mountain Division and our military units as they train to face our future adversaries. “This report language will help identify gaps with power projection platforms and unmanned aerial systems to ensure that Fort Drum remains a highly relevant and capable military installation, with units ready to face our adversaries,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Strengthens Cyber Warfare Capabilities Congresswoman Stefanik included in her Chairman’s mark items that strengthen cyber warfare capabilities and enhance congressional oversight. Cyberspace is a critical front on the 21st Century Battlefield,” said Stefanik. “Our adversaries – including North Korea, China, Iran, and Russia – are actively investing and developing their cyber capabilities, and we must continue to modernize and develop ours as well. This important legislation is a major part of an overall effort to strengthen our cyber warfare capabilities, enhance our international partnerships, and expand congressional oversight of sensitive cyber operations and the technical and operational capabilities needed to conduct them.” Stefanik Measure Reinforces Counterterrorism and Unconventional Warfare Capabilities “The bill includes language our Subcommittee developed that reinforces counterterrorism and unconventional warfare capabilities by fully resourcing U.S. Special Operations Command’s programs and activities, including ongoing efforts in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Eastern Europe,” added Stefanik. “And it strengthens congressional oversight of ongoing CT and unconventional warfare operations and programs, including various Intelligence activities.” “To provide for the families of Special Operations Forces, we grant permanent authority for family support programs within U.S. Special Operations Command, a proven program that now merits codification to ensure continued support for families and the force.” Stefanik Supports Defense Innovation, Emerging Technologies, and Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Programs “The FY2018 NDAA included our language to support Defense innovation to ensure technological superiority and overmatch for our warfighters against current and future threats,” said Stefanik. “We also include provisions that would advance hypersonics weapons research, development, and transitional efforts within the Department.” “I thank all of my colleagues in the House and on the House Armed Services Committee for their work on this critical national security legislation.” ###
07.05.2017	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) toured Norsk Titanium to review progress and expansion plans. She also met with staff and discussed language she added to the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that increases the potential opportunities for additive manufacturing companies in NY-21, like Norsk, to do business with the Department of Defense. "This visit was an important opportunity to see the amazing work being done by Norsk Titanium in Plattsburgh," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "Plattsburgh continues to emerge as a major manufacturing and economic hub from our region, and Norsk is an excellent example of a cutting edge firm expanding their business and creating good paying jobs for North Country families. “In Congress, I was pleased to recently work on a legislative initiative that will help 3-D printing firms like Norsk, and I will continue my work to further develop a work force that can meet the needs of our high-tech employers. I thank President Warren Boley and all Norsk employees for the tour today." Congresswoman Stefanik had language added to the NDAA that recognizes new technological capabilities that revolutionize the industrial supply chain. The ability to utilize new materials in new ways, such as titanium, has the potential to transform how the Department does business. This report language creates the potential for increased opportunities for companies within NY-21 who perform additive manufacturing or 3-D printing. “Our district continues to grow as a home to many companies that work with cutting edge technology, and I was pleased to include this language that will benefit the Department of Defense and these manufacturers,” added Stefanik. Background: This is the language Rep. Stefanik submitted in the FY2018 NDAA that passed the House Armed Services Committee: The committee is aware of the significant possibilities that additive manufacturing, or 3-D printing, will provide to the Department of Defense, both in revolutionizing the industrial supply chain, as well as in providing radically new technological capabilities. The ability to utilize new materials in new ways, such as titanium or explosives, or to develop new manufacturing processes, has the potential to transform how the Department does business. The establishment of new Defense Manufacturing Innovation Institutes, as well as the growing prevalence of 3-D printers at tactical levels, indicates the Department sees that potential as well. Additive manufacturing could also greatly improve the organic industrial base’s ability to respond to demands that original equipment manufacturers are unable to meet or to fabricate obsolete parts that are no-longer manufactured. The committee understands that an inhibitor to seeing the full potential of this technology will be the need to do quality assurance and validation of additive manufactured parts, especially for those in flight or safety-critical systems. Until the Department can develop the standards and processes for assuring quality, 3-D printing will be limited in its application. Also, substantial room remains across the force to add more capacity for this capability, both to repair out-of-date equipment and to speed repair in order to meet urgent operational requirements. Therefore, the committee directs the Secretary of Defense to provide a briefing to the House Committee on Armed Services not later than December 1, 2017, on the Department’s plans to develop and improve additive manufacturing. The briefing shall include the Department’s plans to: develop military and quality assurance standards as quickly as possible; leverage current manufacturing institutes to conduct research in the validation of quality standards for additive manufactured parts; and further integrate additive manufacturing capabilities and capacity into the Department's organic depots, arsenals, and shipyards. ###
07.05.2017	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) met with representatives of the New York Farm Bureau in her Plattsburgh office to discuss agriculture issues in the region. “Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy, and today’s meeting was an opportunity to get an update from our farmers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We discussed many issues facing our farms, including labor shortages, tax reform and priorities for our region before Congress begins debating the next Farm Bill. Thank you to the New York Farm Bureau and everyone for their time today.” ###
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik testified before the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on the importance of her legislation, H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act. This legislation will give military spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member, giving them the benefit of keeping the same state of residency for voting and tax purposes. Click here for video of her remarks, or read the transcript below. Thank you Chairman Arrington and Ranking Member O’Rourke for the opportunity to testify today before the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. I would like to commend the work of this subcommittee in improving education and employment opportunities for veterans, bettering veterans' housing programs, and assisting service members with civil relief. I would also like to thank Representative Wittman, who joins me today in testifying before the subcommittee in support of the Military Residency Choice Act. I know both he and I have the highest respect for military families and have focused our legislative efforts on supporting their cause. Military families make great sacrifices for the protection of our nation and the safeguarding of our freedom, and I feel it is my duty as a Congresswoman to help ease the burdens that they face. I proudly represent two of our nation’s premier military installations, Fort Drum, the home of the 10th Mountain Division and the Kesserling Site, a Navy nuclear training facility. In addition, New York’s 21st district is home to more veterans than any Congressional district in the state. This has given me the opportunity get to know the many military families within our district and grow familiar with the unique hardships and challenges they face. For instance, military families must relocate every few years due to their spouse’s responsibility to meet the requirements of the military. They sacrifice a great deal during these relocations—uprooting their lives and disrupting their families—all while remaining committed to their duty as the spouse of a service member and serving as the critical support system for their loved ones. This is often a difficult and trying time, with the heaviest burden falling upon military spouses. I have introduced several bills that target the strain our military spouses face, especially during times of deployment and relocation, and today I would like to highlight H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act. Current law allows active duty service members to maintain one state of legal residence for tax and voting purposes, even when service members receive military orders requiring them to relocate. Under this law, spouses are only granted the same benefit if the service member and spouse have established the same tax residence at the time of their marriage. Essentially, this requires spouses to establish residency every time the service member receives orders with assignment to a new location—adding undue stress and anxiety to military families already under the pressure of managing their relocation. H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act, will give military spouses the choice to establish the same state of residency as the service member, giving them the benefit of keeping the same state of residency for voting and tax purposes. Military spouses serve too, and this piece of legislation eliminates the daunting task of documenting multiple tax jurisdictions, which at times causes some spouses to forego the complication of working all together. According to a study commissioned by the nonprofit group Blue Star Families, military spousal unemployment could cost the United States up to $1 billion dollars a year in the loss of federal income tax, the costs of unemployment benefits, and the costs of health care issues related to unemployment. This common sense legislation will make this easier for military spouses to work, and help reduce instances of military spousal unemployment. Through my constituents, I have listened to the sacrifices our military families make to keep our nation safe. We have a duty to reduce the burden they face while they are fulfilling their duty to our nation. I want to thank Chairman Arrington and Ranking Member O’Rourke for their leadership of this subcommittee and for the opportunity to speak today. I would now like to yield to my colleague and friend, Representative Whitman from Virginia, who also understands the sacrifices our military families make and has championed this issue. ###
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, released the following statement after the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY2018 was passed by the Committee by a vote of 60-1: “I thank Chairman Thornberry and all my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee for their work on this critical national defense legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our most important job in Congress is to provide for our national defense, and this year’s NDAA is an important step to repairing the damage that has been done to our military readiness. “This legislation strengthens our defense capabilities and gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe. Throughout the process of writing this bill, I was pleased to ensure our district had a pivotal seat at the table as I fought for initiatives to protect and strengthen Fort Drum, increase our readiness, and help families in our district.” Stefanik Demands Transparency and Progress for Missile Defense Congresswoman Stefanik introduced an amendment that demands a full spectrum of factors be considered in the determination of a potential additional continental United States interceptor site. These include existing infrastructure at the location, economic impacts, public support, and the cost to construct and operate. The decision should be made 30 days following the release of the Ballistic Missile Defense Review. Congresswoman Stefanik stated, “Increasing our missile defense capabilities is critical to securing our nation as rogue regimes like North Korea seek to do us harm. I was pleased to have an amendment included in this bill to require the decision for the location of a future missile defense site need to be made transparently and in a timely manner. I remain steadfast in my belief that Fort Drum would make an ideal site for this installation.” Stefanik Votes in Favor of 2.4 Percent Service Member Pay Congresswoman Stefanik supported a 2.4 percent pay raise for those serving in our military. “We ask so much of our brave men and women in uniform, and I was pleased to support this well-deserved pay raise for our troops. This is the largest pay raise in five years,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Fights for Military Spousal Licensing Military spouses must relocate every few years due to their spouse’s job and requirements in the military. Congresswoman Stefanik was able to include her legislation, the Lift Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act, in the FY18 NDAA. This will require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station and expedite license portability. “Military spouses serve too – and this language will help alleviate unnecessary stress and expenses, help make job changes easier, and will give these spouses and their families some deserved predictability as they serve their nation. This has been a legislative initiative of mine since last Congress and I am pleased to have it included in this bill. For a district that is home to so many military spouses, this is an important change to ease their burden,” added Stefanik. Brooke Goldberg, the director of Military Family Policy and Spouse Programs from the Military Officers Association of America stated, “Too often, military spouses face cost prohibitive application or processing fees, testing requirements and other administrative barriers as a direct result of accompanying a service member to their next permanent duty station. These costs affect the entire family’s budget. MOAA is greatly appreciative of this legislation – it is recognition that military families perform the military mission together, supporting each other’s careers, and dealing with the service sacrifice together. We believe this is a valuable retention tool, and a smart way to offset negative impacts of moving to servicemembers and their families.” Stefanik Requires Stability for Military Family Members Rep. Stefanik added her legislation, The Military Family Stability Act, to the FY18 NDAA. This legislation improves the transition process for military families when they receive orders for a permanent change of station report date. It would provide military families with the flexibility they need to make a successful transition to their new jobs, schools and communities. Additionally, it will allow military spouses to work up to six months in their current job, or, if they choose, move up to six months early to their next location in order to secure or begin new full-time employment. This bill would also allow military spouses to extend education they may be pursuing, or allow children in military families to smoothly transition to their new school before or after a new term begins. “As the home of Fort Drum and the Kesselring Navy nuclear site, our district knows firsthand the critical role military families play in supporting our troops and providing for our national defense,” said Stefanik. “Military families make great sacrifices when relocating and transitioning to new schools, jobs and communities, and we must do all we can to help ease their burden.” Stefanik Includes Additive Manufactured Parts The legislation recognizes new technological capabilities that revolutionize the industrial supply chain. The ability to utilize new materials in new ways, such as titanium, has the potential to transform how the Department does business. This report language creates the potential for increased opportunities for companies within NY-21 who perform additive manufacturing or 3-D printing. “Our district continues to grow as a home to many companies that work with cutting edge technology, and I was pleased to include this language that will benefit the Department of Defense and these manufacturers,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Hails the Fort Drum Health Care Ecosystem as a Model for DoD Installations Nationwide Congresswoman Stefanik supported language that maintains the unique relationship between the Army and the Fort Drum Health Care Model and warned Members of the Committee against changes that could impact it. The model relies on Army understanding and their ability to synchronize efforts with the North Country Community. “It is important we work together to maintain the model that provides such great care to our Fort Drum and North Country families,” said Stefanik. “Furthermore, this is a successful model that other military communities can look to and learn from, and I was pleased to support this amendment. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to fight for rural hospitals like Carthage Area Hospital that face reimbursement challenges with the Defense Health Agency.” Stefanik Requires Reports to Increase Fort Drum Readiness Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added a provision that requires reports on unmanned aerial systems and Army power projection platforms. Fort Drum is a critical military installation and we must continue to support the 10th Mountain and our military units as they train to face our future adversaries. “This report language will help identify gaps with power projection platforms and unmanned aerial systems to ensure that Fort Drum remains a highly relevant and capable military installation, with units ready to face our adversaries,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Strengthens Cyber Warfare Capabilities Congresswoman Stefanik included in her Chairman’s mark items that strengthens cyber warfare capabilities and enhance congressional oversight. Cyberspace is a critical front on the 21st Century Battlefield,” said Stefanik. “Our adversaries – including North Korea, China, Iran, and Russia – are actively investing and developing their cyber capabilities, and we must continue to modernize and develop ours as well. This important legislation is a major part of an overall effort to strengthen our cyber warfare capabilities, enhance our international partnerships, and enhance congressional oversight of sensitive cyber operations and the technical and operational capabilities needed to conduct them. Stefanik Measure Reinforces Counterterrorism and Unconventional Warfare Capabilities “The bill includes language our Subcommittee developed that reinforces counterterrorism and unconventional warfare capabilities by fully resourcing U.S. Special Operations Command’s programs and activities, including ongoing efforts in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Eastern Europe,” added Stefanik. “And it strengthens congressional oversight of ongoing CT and unconventional warfare operations and programs, including various Intelligence activities.” “To provide for the families of Special Operations Forces, we grant permanent authority for family support programs within U.S. Special Operations Command, a proven program that now merits codification to ensure continued support for families and the force.” Stefanik Supports Defense Innovation, Emerging Technologies, and Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Programs “The FY2018 NDAA included our language to support Defense innovation to ensure technological superiority and overmatch for our warfighters against current and future threats,” said Stefanik. “We also include provisions that would advance hypersonics weapons research, development, and transitional efforts within the Department.” “I thank all of my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee for their important work on this critical national security document.” ###
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik welcomed NY-21’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition winner, Skylar Fetter, to the United States Capitol. Skylar, a senior from Norwood-Norfolk Central School in Norwood, NY, was joined by her family as she was recognized for her winning photograph, Spectator, which will be showcased in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. Winners of the Congressional Art Competition are selected from each Congressional District. Since the competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. “For the next year Skylar’s photograph will be on display at the U.S. Capitol for visitors from around the country and around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am impressed by Skylar’s talent and her beautiful photograph, and I know that her work will be an inspiration to the thousands of visitors who tour the U.S. Capitol over the next year as well.” ###
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s (R-NY-21) and six of her colleagues have sent a letter urging U.S. Secretary of Treasury Steve Mnuchin to reconsider the proposed elimination of the federal deduction for state and local taxes (SALT), which is included in the Administration’s proposed tax reform plan. The SALT deduction, which has been a part of the U.S. tax code since 1913, allows New Yorkers, as well as taxpayers across the nation, to write off their state and local income tax from their federal returns to prevent double taxation. “I am committed to pursuing fundamental tax reform to grow our economy, and I applaud President Trump for making this a top priority for his Administration,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the details are worked out between Congress and the White House, I join my colleagues in calling attention to the importance of maintaining the state and local tax deduction for families in the North Country and across New York. Eliminating this deduction would slow the growth of our economy and cost our state jobs. I look forward to continuing to work on this important effort throughout this Congress.” Other lawmakers signing onto the letter include Reps. Dan Donovan (NY-11), Peter King (NY-2), Claudia Tenney (NY-22), John Katko (NY-24), John Faso (NY-19), and Lee Zeldin (NY-1). Below is the full text of the letter. The Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin: We write to you – on behalf of the hardworking, middle class taxpayers we represent – to express our deep concerns about the proposed elimination of the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. As you know, the SALT deduction permits taxpayers to subtract their tax payments to state and local governments from their federally taxable income. Without the SALT deduction, taxpayers in all 50 states and in the District of Columbia would be doubly taxed – they would pay federal income taxes on the money they pay to their state and local governments. Such a policy is eminently unfair, as the federal tax code has recognized for the past 103 years. State and local tax deductibility has been a feature of our system since the first three-page income tax in 1913. A century later, it continues to make just as much sense to avoid a crowding-out ‘double-tax.’ The deduction supports principles like homeownership, lower middle-income taxes, local school funding, tailored social services, and incentives for people to live where local government stewards the public money. Double taxation belies the basic philosophical underpinning of a smaller, leaner government. Citizens are forced to spend a percentage of their earnings on state and local taxes or face severe legal consequences. The portion of their income dedicated to state and local government coffers, therefore, is not “earnings” under even the most liberal definition. To tax citizens on income they never see – regardless of the massive amounts of revenue it may raise for the federal government – is contradictory to our basic perspective on government largesse. We firmly believe in the long-held conservative economic orthodoxy that higher taxes reduce incentives to work. The SALT deduction affects filers’ taxable income, so its elimination would push some people into higher marginal tax brackets and would thus reduce incentives to work and invest. In fact, eliminating the SALT deduction would reduce long-run GDP by 0.4 percent and would lead to over 200,000 jobs lost. The deduction for state and local taxes matters for all Americans, but it affects New York disproportionately. The state has 3.2 million residents who claim the deduction, and New York’s itemizers make up primarily lower- and middle-income households: 85% of those who claim the SALT deduction earn less than $200,000 in annual income. The vast majority of those people are homeowners. The National Association of Realtors said eliminating the deduction would “nullify the current tax benefits of owning a home for the vast majority of tax filers.” In fact, New York proudly pays more than its fair share to the federal government. The state has been a net payer to the federal government for decades, and while New York City residents pay $96 billion in personal income taxes, the city receives back only about $61 billion from the federal government. Because we laud and support the goals of growth and job creation, tax simplification, and tax relief, any reform package must equal the benefits that state and local tax deductibility have already provided for over 100 years. Indeed, we anticipate such benefits for the people we represent because of your statements to our delegation about the offsetting proposed increase in the standard deduction coupled with simplified and lowered tax brackets. However, before reaching any conclusions, we will analyze any reform package on how it affects our constituents, and we will ultimately do whatever provides our constituents the biggest tax benefit. We hope you will consider the impact on the people we represent as we continue crafting an innovative plan that also respects long-standing principles of federalism. We are grateful for your leadership in this matter and look forward to continued work on behalf of the American public. Sincerely, ###
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 2353 – the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. This bipartisan legislation she developed with her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce updates federal career and technical education (CTE) policies to help more students gain the knowledge and skills they need to compete for in-demand jobs. It also includes an initiative championed by Congresswoman Stefanik to allow use of funding to support the addition of art and design skill training into CTE programs. “One of the most common refrains I hear when I tour businesses and manufacturers across the North Country is the need for more high skilled workers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “To compete in a 21st century economy, workers need the skills and experience necessary to secure these high skilled jobs. This is especially important in the North Country, where we are home to industries ranging from bus to train manufacturers, and from paper mills to aerospace engineering. “I am pleased to help the House pass this critical, bipartisan legislation to strengthen our workforce and strengthen our North Country economy. Furthermore, as the co-chair of the bipartisan STEAM caucus, I am pleased that my initiative to expand art and design training was included. As our world’s challenges become more complex, employers need workers who can think outside of the box and creatively attack problems.” The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act will help more individuals gain the knowledge and skills they need to succeed by: Empowering State and Local Community Leaders Improving Alignment with In-Demand Jobs Increasing Transparency and Accountability Ensuring a Limited Federal Role To read a fact sheet on the bill, click here. What They’re Saying: Joe Keegan, Vice President for Academic Affairs, North Country Community College: “North Country Community College is fully supportive of the reauthorization of the Perkins Career and Technical Education legislation. The funding has been critically important in helping us provide multiple career pathways to our students, including in such vital areas as nursing education, which has benefits not only for our students but for the communities we serve as well.” Sylvie Nelson, IOM, Executive Director, North Country Workforce Development Board: “The reauthorization of the Perkins Career and Technical Education is critical in ensuring training needs of the North Country’s business community are met. This legislation plays a leading role in helping the efforts of the North Country Workforce Development Board and its partners to fill the widening skills gap that exists in the region.” Michele M. Friedman, Director of Career & Technical Education, CV-TEC Division of Champlain Valley Educational Services: “The reauthorization of Perkins Career and Technical Education legislation is critical to maintain, sustain, and strengthen quality Career & Technical Education programs within the State of New York and across the nation. CTE IS the pathway to future careers!” Marc Egan, Director of Government Relations, National Education Association: “Federal support for CTE is vitally important. It helps ensure that all students, no matter what zip code they live in, have access to high-quality CTE programs and that states have the means to strengthen those programs. For secondary students, CTE provides engaging, relevant, and hands-on learning opportunities that lead to higher graduation rates and a range of postsecondary education and career options. For postsecondary students, CTE provides preparation for careers as well as opportunities to attain degrees and other credentials.” ###
06.22.2017	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) commended Joel Wood on his new position as Downtown Revitalization Initiative (DRI) project coordinator for the City of Plattsburgh. Mr. Wood is currently a Constituent Liaison in Congresswoman Stefanik’s Plattsburgh Office and has worked for Congresswoman Stefanik since March of 2015. “Joel has been an extraordinary asset to my team and I am very excited for his new opportunity,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Families across our district know Joel well as a diligent, kind and dedicated public servant who has helped countless individuals who were struggling with the federal government. While Joel will be missed by our office, I look forward to continuing to work with him to revitalize and improve downtown Plattsburgh.” Joel Wood, a graduate of SUNY Plattsburgh, will begin in his new position on Wednesday, July 5th. ###
06.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, led by Chairwoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Ranking Member Jim Langevin (D-RI), passed their Subcommittee mark for the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act. This language will now move to the full House Armed Services Committee for consideration next week. The Subcommittee's mark is available here. Below is are Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks as prepared for delivery today, followed by a summary of this legislation. I am very pleased to welcome everyone here today for the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities Mark Up for the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act. I would like to begin by thanking all of the members of the subcommittee for their active and energetic participation in the hearings, briefings, and congressional delegations that we have held during the past several months. We have taken a hard look at some very important issues within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction, and we have done so in a truly collaborative and bipartisan manner. For their hard work, I thank each of my colleagues on the subcommittee. The Emerging Threats and Capabilities subcommittee mark this year focuses heavily on providing for stronger cyber warfare capabilities, safeguarding technological superiority, enabling our Special Operations Forces across the globe, providing resources and authorities to counter terrorism and unconventional warfare threats, and energizing programs and activities that counter the spread of weapons of mass destruction. I am especially proud of what this subcommittee has been able to achieve this year in the areas of cyber warfare and cyber operations. Our emphasis on cyber carries three broad themes: First, it increases congressional oversight of cyber operations by including H.R. 2807, a bill introduced by myself, Ranking Member Langevin, Chairman Thornberry, and Ranking Member Smith, that will ensure Congress is kept fully informed of sensitive military cyber operations. Second, we bolster international partnerships for cyber warfare to counter aggressive adversaries such as Russia, China, and North Korea. This includes support for our NATO partners and those within the Asia-Pacific region to not only enhance partnered cyber capabilities and information sharing, but also to counter and mitigate adversarial propaganda efforts and information warfare campaigns. And third, the mark continues to build and enhance our own U.S. cyber warfare capabilities and activities, principally within U.S. Cyber Command – but also across the Services and within the Intelligence Community – including resiliency of Department of Defense networks, weapons systems, and supply chains. The mark before our members today also reinforces counterterrorism and unconventional warfare capabilities by fully resourcing U.S. Special Operations Command’s programs and activities, including ongoing efforts in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Eastern Europe. And it strengthens congressional oversight of ongoing CT and unconventional warfare operations and programs, including various Intelligence activities. To provide for the families of Special Operations Forces, we grant permanent authority for family support programs within U.S. Special Operations Command, a proven program that now merits codification to ensure continued support for families and the force. The mark supports Defense innovation to ensure technological superiority and overmatch for our warfighters against current and future threats. We also include provisions that would advance hypersonics weapons research, development, and transitional efforts within the Department. Before proceeding, I would like to take a moment to extend my gratitude to my Ranking Member, Congressman Jim Langevin of Rhode Island. Jim, it has been a true pleasure working with you on all of these important issues, and I look forward to continuing our bipartisan efforts together. I would also like to thank the committee staff who have worked so tirelessly on this mark, including Staff Lead Peter Villano, Professional Staff Members Kevin Gates and Lindsay Kavanaugh, our Clerk Nevada Schadler, and our Fellow Dr. Mark Pepple." Summary: The ETC proposal is a vital part of the NDAA through which the Committee conducts oversight of counterterrorism programs and policy, special operations forces, defense-wide science and technology, cyber operations and programs, strategic communications and information operations, related Intelligence programs and activities, countering weapons of mass destruction, homeland defense, and consequence management.Specifically, the ETC proposal: Strengthens cyber warfare capabilities and enhances congressional oversight: Prioritizes the readiness of U.S. Cyber Command, cyber mission forces, and cyber warfare tools and capabilities, including initiatives to strengthen the cyber workforce; Along with the full committee, addresses military service unfunded requirements for cyber warfare; Enhances resiliency of DoD networks, weapons systems, supply chains, and capabilities; Strengthens congressional oversight of sensitive cyber military operations and cyber warfare tools and capabilities; Bolsters international partnerships for cyber warfare to counter Russian, Chinese, and North Korean aggression, cyber, and information warfare threats. Reinforces counterterrorism and unconventional warfare capabilities: Fully resources and authorizes U.S. Special Operations Command programs and activities, including ongoing efforts in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, and Eastern Europe; Grants permanent authority for family support programs within Special Operations Command; Strengthens congressional oversight of ongoing counterterrorism and unconventional warfare operations and programs, including Intelligence activities. Supports defense innovation, emerging technologies, and countering weapons of mass destruction programs: Fully supports innovation efforts of the Strategic Capabilities Office, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and Defense Innovation Unit Experimental to ensure technological superiority and overmatch for our warfighters against current and future threats; Advances hypersonic weapons research, development, and transitional efforts within DoD; Recommends to the Chairman fully funding the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, the Chemical and Biological Defense program, and the Cooperative Threat Reduction program to combat weapons of mass destruction (WMD); Along with the full committee, addresses military service unfunded requirements for operations within a WMD environment. ###
06.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass a series of bills to improve foster care programs for children nationwide, including reforms to help those affected by the nationwide opioid epidemic. “These bipartisan measures will help better protect our nation’s most vulnerable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our nation has as many as 400,000 minors in our foster care system on any given day. The measures we passed today will help improve conditions for these children, give our system more tools to place foster children in safe homes, and provide support for families struggling from substance abuse.” The legislation passed out of the House today includes: 1) H.R. 2847 - Improving Services for Older Youth in Foster Care Act;2) H.R. 2866 - Reducing Barriers for Relative Foster Parents Act;3) H.R. 2742 - Modernizing the Interstate Placement of Children in Foster Care Act;4) H.R. 2834 - Partnership Grants to Strengthen Families Affected by Parental Substance Abuse Act;5) H.R. 2857 - Supporting Families in Substance Abuse Treatment Act; ###
06.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s (R-NY-21) announced that her legislation – H.R. 2482, the Federal Perkins Loan Extension Act of 2017, picked up its 52nd cosponsor. The bipartisan legislation extends the Federal Perkins Loan Program for a period of two years. The Federal Perkins Loan Program is a popular and effective financial aid program currently utilized by over 500,000 students nationwide. “Perkins Loans are an important resource for low income families in our district who are pursuing their higher education dreams,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased that this legislation continues to gain momentum, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure this legislation gets brought up for a vote.” Perkins Loan Background: H.R.2482 - Federal Perkins Loan Program Extension Act of 2017 Absent Congressional action, the Perkins Loan program will expire at the end of September leaving around 500,000 students without access to important financial aid. Perkins Loans borrowers are predominantly from lower income families and are often the first in their family to attend college. Unlike many other student loan programs, Perkins is administered directly by colleges and universities who originate the loans, counsel their students through repayment, and select contractors for servicing and collection. Colleges and Universities tailor the program to best fit borrowers’ and institutions’ situations. Perkins is a risk-sharing program with institutions contributing one-third of their students’ awards. This “ownership interest” also contributes to the successful management of this vital program. 67% of Perkins borrowers are dependent students, 34% of whom are from families with household incomes of less than $30,000. 20% of Perkins borrowers are independent students, 70% of whom have personal incomes of less than $20,000. The Perkins Loan program is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2017 if Congress does not act to reauthorize this program. If the Perkins Loan is eliminated, around 500,000 students across the country will not be able to access much-needed financial aid. ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the shooting in Alexandria, Virginia: "The horrific shooting this morning took all of us by surprise, and I am praying for my friend Steve Scalise, the U.S. Capitol Police, and the other victims who were injured in this senseless act of violence. They were gathered this morning to practice for the Congressional Baseball Game - an annual event in Washington that brings Members together in a bipartisan manner to raise money for charity. In the coming days we are going to hear many stories about individual acts of heroism that occurred this morning, and without the bravery of our U.S. Capitol Police, today's attack could have been much worse. Please pray for the individuals and their friends and families involved in this morning's attack." ###
06.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of S. 1094 – the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. This bipartisan legislation provides the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) flexibility to remove VA employees for performance or misconduct, adds protections for whistleblowers, and increases accountability measures for VA Senior Executive Service employees. This passed the House by a vote of 368-55. “We must continue to ensure that the VA provides our heroes with the best possible care,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the Representative of more veterans than any other district in New York, I have prioritized veterans’ issues through casework and through my legislative work in Congress. This important reform will increase accountability standards at the VA. I encourage anyone who is struggling with the VA to contact my offices so that we can help.” Legislative Background: S. 1094 – Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act Summary: The legislation provides the Secretary of Veterans Affairs flexibility to remove VA employees for performance or misconduct, adds protections for whistleblowers, and increases accountability and performance measures for VA Senior Executive Service employees. Key provisions of the legislation include: Expands the SES removal authority to all VA employees Authorizes the secretary to remove, demote, or suspend for longer than 14 days without pay, subject to an appeal of their removal or demotion to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB), for most non-senior executive service employees. The MSBP would then have 180 days to complete an expedited appeal and render a final decision, subject to judicial review by the U.S. Federal Circuit. Protects whistleblowers from retaliation by not allowing the Secretary to use this authority to fire employees who have filed a complaint with the Office of Special Counsel (OSC), until their complaints are resolved and/or finalized ###
06.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass H.R. 2274, the HYPE Act – bipartisan legislation to cut red tape in the construction permitting process for hydropower projects and incentivize greater investment in hydropower. “In Congress, I have been a strong supporter of renewable energy sources, and have voted to extend critical tax credits to promote the use of biomass, wind, solar and hydropower,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This commonsense legislation will encourage and incentive greater use of clean hydropower. By helping to streamline the regulatory process, this legislation will help improve output and incentivize greater output of this critical renewable energy source.” Summary H.R. 2274 amends the Federal Power Act to allow the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to extend periods relating to preliminary permits and commencement of construction of hydroelectric projects. Specifically, the legislation extends the period of a valid preliminary permit from three to four years, permits the Commission to extend the period of a preliminary permit once for not more than four years, and permits the Commission to extend the period once more for an additional four years if there are extraordinary circumstances that warrant such an additional extension. Currently, Congress must act to extend construction permits for hydropower projects. ###
06.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding an announcement by the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) of a $1,115,000 grant to New York State’s Department of Environmental Conservation as part of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI): “The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is a critical program to preserve these national treasures, and I applaud the EPA for making this grant a priority,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I will continue to support this important program in Congress so that we can protect our natural ecosystems, improve water quality and combat invasive species that threaten our region.” In February, Congresswoman Stefanik joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to urge President Trump to fully fund the GLRI. She also voted in support of the FY2017 Appropriations Bill on March 1st that included $300,000,000 to support the GLRI. Background on the GLRI grant from the EPA: $1,150,000 NYS Dept of Environmental Conservation- GREAT LAKES RESTORATION INITIATIVE- STATE CAPACITY New York State will continue to implement its Great Lakes Program activities to promote significant progress towards achieving the priority goals of the GLRI Action Plan Part 2 (2016-2019) and beyond. New York State will extend its Great Lakes Team through FY 2019 with nominal program and project management and technical staff needed to provide overall program management and technical assistance for Lakewide Action and Management Plans (LAMPs) for Lake Erie and Lake Ontario, encompassing policy alignment, project integration, technical assistance, public outreach and reporting functions required for the five Areas of Concern (AOCs) within New York State. Grant #: 00E01949-1 ###
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act. This important legislation replaces the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial overhaul with a system that ends taxpayer funded bailouts once and for all and ensures no company remains “too big to fail”; holds Wall Street accountable with tough penalties for fraud and deception; and provides opportunities for small businesses, innovators and job creators by eliminating onerous regulations that stifle access to credit and capital. “When I meet with local financial institutions, one of the most frequent concerns I hear about is that Dodd-Frank has led to crippling government overreach and excessive regulation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The CHOICE Act pushes back against this excessive regulation so that our local financial institutions can give needed capital to allow our small businesses to thrive. Furthermore, this important legislation ends the ‘too big to fail’ framework that led us into trouble in the first place. I am committed to helping grow our North Country economy, and this legislation is a critical reform to aid our local businesses, innovators and job creators.” Click here for a summary of the Financial CHOICE Act. What They’re Saying: Statement of Michael P. Smith, President & CEO, New York Bankers Association: “The CHOICE Act is a strong first step in achieving meaningful regulatory reform for banks. The New York Bankers Association has long supported several important provisions of the bill, such as a tailored approach to regulation, special treatment for mortgages that are held in the bank’s portfolio, repeal of the Volcker Rule, charter flexibility for thrifts, and a streamlined process for examination appeals. Banks are eager to shed some of the most onerous burdens of Dodd-Frank. The CHOICE Act will help the industry perform its vital role of building robust local economies.” William J. Mellin, President/CEO of the New York Credit Union Association, said: “Credit unions are member-owned, not-for-profit financial cooperatives that have been overwhelmed with a torrent of regulations in recent years. The Financial CHOICE Act is an important first step in shifting power away from federal agencies in Washington and back into the hands of local, community-based businesses. We commend Rep. Elise Stefanik and her colleagues for their leadership and support on this legislation, and we look forward to working closely with the Congresswoman on future reforms that will benefit North Country residents and all New Yorkers.” Linda Bourgeois, President/CEO of UFirst Federal Credit Union in Plattsburgh, said: “New York’s credit unions are excited about the prospect of real regulatory relief, and the Financial CHOICE Act is an important first step. We’d be remiss if we didn’t thank the House leadership, Chairman Hensarling and Rep. Stefanik for their efforts in addressing regulatory reform. We hope Congress will continue to build on this momentum and pursue legislation to exempt credit unions from regulations that are intended to target the largest financial institutions.” ###
06.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 1955, the Rural Hospital Access Act – bipartisan legislation to ensure that funding is secured on a permanent basis for Medicare Dependent and Low-Volume hospitals, an important issue for rural hospitals in our region. In our district, hospitals dependent on this program include Champlain Valley Physicians Hospital Medical Center, Elizabethtown Community Hospital, Adirondack Medical Center, Alice Hyde Medical Center, Nathan Littauer Hospital & Nursing Home, Little Falls Hospital, Samaritan Medical Center, River Hospital, Carthage Area Hospital, Lewis County General Hospital, Gouverneur Hospital, Canton-Potsdam Hospital, Clifton-Fine Hospital, Massena Memorial Hospital, and Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center. “Hospitals across our district rely on this important funding to help ensure families across our district – especially seniors – get the care they need,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan legislation would give rural hospitals across our district needed stability, allowing them to better serve the needs of our seniors.” This legislation would amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program. Medicare-dependent hospitals are small rural hospitals for which Medicare patients comprise a significant percentage of their patients. ###
06.02.2017	Watertown, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Skylar Fetter, a Senior from Norwood-Norfolk Central School in Norwood, NY, is the winner of the 2017 NY-21 Congressional Art Competition. Her winning photograph, Spectator, will be showcased in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “For the next year Skylar’s photograph will be on display at the U.S. Capitol for visitors from around the country and around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I congratulate Skylar and thank all of the talented participants for their submissions this year. The North Country is home to so many talented artists and I look forward to holding this competition again next year.” ###
06.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus and author of the Republican Climate Change Resolution, issued the following statement on President Trump’s Paris Agreement announcement: “I have always advocated that Congress should have a transparent role in oversight and approval of these important matters, and just as President Obama overstepped by entering into this agreement without Congressional approval, this decision by President Trump is also a mistake. “As we know in the North Country, protecting our environment goes hand in hand with strengthening our economy. We understand climate change is a serious threat that must be addressed by our entire global community, and the United States should continue to lead. "United States innovation and business leadership have been key drivers to lowering our carbon emissions over the last 20 years, and we should continue to have an influential seat at the table as the rest of the world addresses these issues. Withdrawing from the Paris Agreement is misguided, and harms the ongoing effort to fight climate change while also isolating us from our allies. “I am committed to working in Congress on solutions to fight climate change, and will also continue working with local New York county and state officials on efforts here in our state to continue protecting our greatest resource." ###
06.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 2683, the Protecting Veterans Credit Act – legislation to protect the credit of veterans who may be affected by delays in payment processing and incorrectly assigned bills through the Veterans Choice Program. “The Veterans Choice Program is an invaluable resource to ensure our heroes receive the care they need, but unfortunately, payments to non-VA facilities have created billing problems for many of our veterans,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “It is important the VA continue to work towards correcting these billing issues. However, until then, this bipartisan legislation makes a commonsense fix so that our veterans’ credit isn’t harmed when seeking the care they deserve. This will help our veterans be able to purchase homes, apply for loans and better transition to civilian life.” Background: In 2014, Congress created the Veterans Choice Program as a response to unacceptable delays for veterans attempting to receive medical care at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities. The Choice Program became part of the preexisting non-VA care programs whereby eligible veterans can receive medical assistance from non-VA facilities. To decrease the wait time and allow easier access to necessary care, the Choice Program allows veterans to receive care in a non-VA facility if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within a specified amount of time or if the veteran lives too far from a VA facility. While the intent is worthy, the execution of the program has been far from perfect. Delayed non-VA care payments, including through the Choice Program, have resulted in many veterans being wrongfully held responsible for medical bills. While billing and payments issues are being resolved between the VA, contractors and providers, the unpaid bills can lead to adverse credit report actions. In response to billing issues associated with the Choice Program, the VA established a call center to help veterans, resulting in thousands of calls in only a few short months. While work is being done to fix the billing process for non-VA care, veterans should not be on the hook for bills not settled in a timely manner. Credit scores are critical to a veteran’s ability to rent property, get a mortgage and even get a job. Veterans should not have to suffer economic consequences due to the failures of the VA or its contractors. Legislative Specifics: The Protecting Veterans Credit Act will prohibit medical debt due to care received through the Choice Program and other VA community care programs from being reported to credit agencies for one year, allowing the VA, contractors, and medical providers involved to sort out coverage and billing discrepancies before the veteran’s credit score is adversely affected. The changes to the legislation from last year are that it will expand to include all non-VA medical care, no longer be limited to care received through the Choice program, and it removes Section 4. Section 4 amended the Fair Debt Collection Practices. ###
06.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, applauded the announcement of over $70 million over multiple years to help communities and healthcare providers prevent opioid overdose deaths and provide treatment for opioid use disorder. “The heroin and opioid epidemic touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This critical funding will go a long way to combat this epidemic that affects far too many in our district and around our nation. As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I will continue to work in Congress on solutions to this tragedy.” Congresswoman Stefanik has supported the 21st Century Cures Act and the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) in Congress. For more information on these grants and how to apply, click here. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Brad Schneider (IL-10), Tom Rooney (FL-17), and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced bipartisan legislation to help veterans organizations buy, renovate, and repurpose abandoned housing into homes for veterans experiencing homelessness. The Housing Our Heroes Act, creates a three-year pilot program to provide grants to Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) and other non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to acquire and update blighted properties for the purpose of housing homeless veterans. This program will help put previously homeless veterans on the path to homeownerhsip and improve neighborhoods by restoring abandoned properties. “Our district has more veterans than any district in New York State, and this bipartisan legislation will help us honor the commitment we have made to those who have bravely defended our nation,” said Stefanik. “The Housing Our Heroes Act will ensure our veterans have a roof over their head and a bed to sleep in at night. Taking care of our veterans strengthens our communities, and I encourage all of my colleagues to support this important bill.” “Our responsibility to those who served in our armed forces does not end when they hang up the uniform. No one who has put their life on the life for our country, and may still bear the physical and mental scars of that service, should be forced to live unsheltered on the streets,” said Schneider. “This bipartisan bill presents a win-win commonsense solution to help both our veterans find a safe place to call home, while also supporting the revitalization of our communities by renovating previously abandoned properties.” “I am proud to introduce this legislation with my colleagues and provide veterans experiencing homelessness with a true path to homeownership,” said Rooney. “Although some communities, like Charlotte County, Florida in my district, have been recognized for their efforts in ending homelessness among veterans, we must continue working to ensure that no veteran—no matter where they live—is left out in the cold.” “These guys fought so we can sleep soundly at night and they deserve the same,” said Maloney. “We’ve got vets who need a home, and we’ve got homes sitting vacant and attracting crime – this bill kills two birds with one stone – it’s really a no-brainer.” According to a 2016 report by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the number of homeless veterans has declined by more than 46 percent since 2009. Despite this recent progress, nearly 40,000 veterans remain homeless across the country. The text of the legislation is available online.
05.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced U.S. Department of Education Fiscal Year 2017 grants for Upward Bound Programs at SUNY Plattsburgh and SUNY Adirondack. Congresswoman Stefanik wrote letters of support to the Department of Education on behalf of these applicants. “I am pleased to announce these important grants for these excellent higher education institutions in our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Upward Bound program provides critical support for students preparing for higher education, and this funding will go a long way to help students in our district succeed. I am pleased my office was able to help secure this funding and encourage other organizations in our district to reach out to my offices for assistance with federal grants.” The full amount of these grants is listed below. No. PR/Award Applicant Name Budget Amount 1 P047A170013 Adirondack Community College $257,500.00 2 P047A170121 Research Foundation for SUNY/SUNY Plattsburgh $631,596.00 3 P047A170014 Adirondack Community College $270,375.00 4 P047A170124 Research Foundation for SUNY/SUNY Plattsburgh $270,375.00
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee, helped the House of Representatives pass H.R. 2052, the Protecting the Rights of Individuals Against Technological Exploitation (PRIVATE) Act – legislation she cosponsored in response to the March 2017 revelation that a private Facebook group titled “Marines United” was discovered with postings of nude, intimate photos of women, in addition to personal information, without their consent or knowledge. “The behavior of those involved with the ‘Marines United’ scandal is intolerable, and I am pleased to work with my colleagues on this commonsense reform to protect the privacy of our brave servicemembers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will continue to work in Congress to ensure that Members of our Armed Forces have the protections they deserve as they put their lives on the line to keep us safe.” H.R. 2052 amends the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to insert a new article prohibiting the wrongful broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images and subject any person in violation to punishment by court-martial. Background In March 2017 a private Facebook group titled “Marines United” was discovered with postings of nude, intimate photos of women, in addition to personal information, without their consent or knowledge. Naval Criminal Investigative Service found that this problem exists in all branches of the military. The UCMJ currently provides two broad articles regarding unprofessional conduct that allows for prosecution of this behavior in military courts. The PRIVATE Act seeks to strengthen the UCMJ by clarifying the intent that makes these actions a crime and subjecting those guilty of wrongful distribution to punishment by court-martial. Further, this legislation protects those who would share evidence of wrongdoing with the appropriate law enforcement and media organizations. ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass six pieces of legislation to help our nation’s veterans, including H.R. 2288 – the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation would address the current backlog of appeals for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) claims. “Each day, my offices are proud to work on behalf of the veterans of our district who often struggle to receive the benefits they need from the VA,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “But the system needs to be reformed to give our North Country heroes the peace of mind they deserve. I am proud to support this important reform to help the VA move through their backlog so that our veterans can quickly receive the benefits and care they have earned.” Background: When a veteran files a claim for a disability they believe is caused by their military service, VA will issue a rating decision, which either grants or denies the claimed disability and assigns an evaluation of disability level. If a veteran disagrees with VA’s decision, they may file an appeal with VA and move their claim through several levels of the appeals process. Unfortunately, VA’s current appeals process is broken. Between fiscal year 2015 and fiscal year 2017, the number of pending appeals increased from approximately 380,000 to 470,000 – more than a 20 percent increase. Between fiscal years 2013 and 2016, Congress appropriated nearly $200 million more than the president’s request to address the appeals backlog. Despite the infusion of resources, VA estimates that it will take at least five years just to resolve the appeals currently pending. The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, including the “Local Higher Level Review Lane” in which an adjudicator reviews the same evidence considered by the original claims processor; the “New Evidence Lane,” in which the veteran could submit new evidence for review and have a hearing; and the “Board Lane,” in which jurisdiction for the appeal would transfer immediately to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. The bill would give the Secretary the authority to test the new system prior to full implementation and would allow some veterans already going through the appeals process to opt into the new system. It would also require VA to provide a comprehensive plan for how the new system will be implemented and a subsequent certification by the Secretary that the department is prepared to roll-out the reform. Lastly, the bill would require the Secretary to submit periodic reports to Congress, including information on how many appeals are pending in both the modernized system and the legacy system. In addition to this legislation, Congresswoman Stefanik helped the House pass: 1) H.R. 1005 – To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care services for veterans 2) H.R. 1162 – No Hero Left Untreated Act 3) H.R. 1329 – Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017 4) H.R. 1545 – VA Prescription Data Accountability Act 5) H.R. 1725 – Quicker Veterans Benefits Delivery Act of 2017 ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House of Representatives pass two pieces of legislation to reform juvenile justice laws and help missing and exploited children. Both of these bills had been approved by Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Too often our most vulnerable fall through the cracks of our justice system, and I was pleased to pass these important reforms through the House today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The bills we passed will help modernize our laws and give states more flexibility meeting the needs of delinquent youth, strengthen our ability to recover missing children and defend them against violent crimes. I thank my colleagues in the House for their work on these important bills and urge the Senate to act swiftly to send them to the President’s desk.” The two bills passed by the House of Representatives today include: · The Improving Support for Missing & Exploited Children Act (H.R. 1808) that will update and streamline the Missing Children’s Assistance Act to strengthen efforts to recover missing children and protect youth who are the victims of sexual exploitation. · And the Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2017 (H.R. 1809) that will reauthorize and reform the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act to help state and local leaders better serve at-risk youth and juvenile offenders. ###
05.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass six bipartisan pieces of legislation aimed at protecting children from abuse and combating the epidemic of human trafficking: “Thousands of children in our nation are victims of human trafficking each year, and with New York City as an artery of this heinous epidemic, we must work together at the federal, state and local levels to combat this crime,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This has been an issue that I have been working on since first arriving in Congress, and I am pleased to help the House pass these commonsense measures today to help strengthen protections for children, and to give law enforcement more tools to keep our communities safe.” Legislation passed out of the House today includes: 1) H.R. 1862 – Global Child Protection Act of 2017 2) H.R. 1842 – Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 3) H.R. 1188 – Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017 4) H.R. 883 – Targeting Child Predators Act of 2017 5) H.R. 695 – Child Protection Improvements Act of 2017 6) H.R. 1625 – TARGET Act This week, the House will also consider H.R. 1973 – the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act of 2017; and H.R. 1761 – the Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act of 2017. ###
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Congressman Bill Foster (D-IL-11) led a letter with 70 of their colleagues to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt concerning the recent dismissal of several members of the EPA’s Board of Scientific Counselors. “It’s critical that the EPA continues to use the highest quality research when making policy decisions, and the recent dismissal of these Members of the Board of Scientific Counselors is very concerning,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the proud Representative of the Adirondacks, we rely on the important work being done by the EPA to protect our nation’s ecological treasures, and I urge Administrator Pruitt to maintain the highest scientific standards at this important agency.” “I am alarmed by the removal of these highly qualified and knowledgeable experts and am concerned about the signal this action sends about the priorities of the EPA,” Foster said. “The Board of Scientific Counselors is tasked with advising on the technical issues of the EPA’s research programs and should be comprised of people whose views are grounded in scientific research, not industry insiders with conflicted interests.” Earlier this month, half of the scientists on the EPA’s Board of Scientific Counselors were dismissed. The Board of Scientific Counselors is charged with helping to ensure EPA research and regulations are grounded in credible scientific evidence. The letter is available here. ###
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass several important measures to support our law enforcement in recognition of “National Police Week.” “Throughout our community, brave law enforcement officers dedicate their careers and risk their lives each day to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Last year, the South Glens Falls community was heartbroken when New York State Trooper Timothy Pratt was tragically killed in the line of duty. Each year for Police Week, communities across our nation gather in honor and recognition of these heroes, and tens of thousands of law enforcement officers descend on our nation’s Capital to honor the fallen. Police Week is an important opportunity to thank our law enforcement officers for their service, and to honor the brave men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice.” This week, Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues in the House passed: H.R. 1892 – Honoring Hometown Heroes Act H.R. 1428 – American Law Enforcement Heroes Act of 2017 H.R. 1616 – Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 H.R. 115 – Thin Blue Line Act H.R. 1039 – Probation Officer Protection Act of 2017 H.R. 510 – Rapid DNA Act of 2017 H.R. 1616 – Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored H.R.2268 – the Empowering Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act. This bipartisan legislation would make school districts and local education groups eligible to receive grant funding to train their teachers, administrators, school nurses, campus security, and other staff to recognize signs that a student is a victim or potential victim of trafficking. “The heinous crime of human trafficking is far too prevalent and we must continue to aggressively combat this epidemic,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Each year, hundreds of thousands are trafficked in the United States and roughly half of them are children. This important legislation would give our educators the necessary resources to recognize the signs of trafficking so that victims can get the help they need.” The Empower Educators to Prevent Trafficking Act has been endorsed by the Frederick Douglass Family Initiatives, Polaris Project, the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking, the Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking, and ECPAT-USA (Ending Child Slavery at the Source). ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representatives Chris Collins (NY-27), John Katko (NY-24), Claudia Tenney (NY-22) and Elise Stefanik (NY-21) are urging Governor Cuomo to take swift action in requesting the assistance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to deliver relief to Lake Ontario shoreline and St. Lawrence River property owners. In a letter to the Governor released today, the Representatives who all represent shore areas, called on Cuomo to comply with the federal Stafford Act and make the initial request for federal assistance. Federal law requires the initial request to come from the governor in order for President Trump to declare a federal state of emergency for the Ontario lakeshore areas. “While we commend Governor Cuomo’s efforts thus far to address the concerns of Lake Ontario homeowners, our letter respectfully urges him to request the assistance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),” said Congressman Collins. “In making a formal request to President Trump to declare a federal state of emergency, impacted residents will be able to access the wide ranging disaster assistance that FEMA has to offer. Our Lake Ontario constituents have remained patient as water levels continue to rise each day, but it’s now time to act and provide them with the relief they deserve.” Representatives Katko, Tenney, and Stefanik signed onto the letter sent to Governor Cuomo, as they too represent communities along Lake Ontario impacted by recent record high water levels. “With rising lake levels gravely impacting communities along the southern shore of Lake Ontario, I’ve spent time visiting with property owners and local officials in Fair Haven, Sodus, and Oswego. Homeowners, businesses, and farmers are suffering substantial and costly damage,” said Congressman Katko (NY-24). “I applaud Governor Cuomo for his attention to this critical and unprecedented situation. Still, current water levels pose a significant burden and, left unaddressed, will continue to cause damage to shoreline communities across New York State. That’s why I’ve joined my colleagues to urge the Governor to elevate these concerns by requesting federal assistance from FEMA so that our communities may have access to the assistance they desperately need.” “Our constituents in the Lake Ontario region continue to see water levels rise, damaging their property, their homes and local businesses,” said Congresswoman Tenney (NY-22). “As our delegation and state officials work to provide relief to families devastated by the flooding, it is imperative that Governor Cuomo begin the process of requesting federal assistance to give our constituents the help they deserve and desperately need.” “Heavy rainfall in recent months has caused near historic levels of flooding along the St. Lawrence River,” said Congresswoman Stefanik (NY-21). “As water levels continue to rise, so do concerns about damage to homes, businesses, marinas and docks. My office has been working closely with officials at the state level to address this issue, and I have been in continued conversations with FEMA officials and regional representatives for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers who are monitoring the situation closely. We must act now to protect our shoreline property owners and I urge Governor Cuomo to expedite a request for federal relief.” According to the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), current water levels in Lake Ontario are measuring in 31 inches higher than average and are expected to rise another 5 inches over the next 30 days. Shoreline property owners continue to invest in break-walls and other erosion protection resources; however, a significant number of homes have been condemned and impacted property owners anticipate tens of thousands of dollars in damage. The letter details that while both the National Guard and USACE have helped provide counties along the shoreline with hundreds of thousands of sandbags, unfortunately “they are no match for waves measured between 5-7 feet tall that are crashing against private property, housing structures, and docks causing irreparable damage to the shoreline.” Full text of the letter along with signatories can be seen here and full text can be read below. May 18, 2017 The Honorable Andrew Cuomo Governor State of New York The Capitol Albany, New York 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo, We are writing you today regarding the recent flooding along the shoreline of Lake Ontario. Lake Ontario water levels have recently surpassed record high levels, currently sitting 31 inches higher than normal levels with an expected increase of 5 inches over the next 30 days. It has come to our attention that your office has not yet requested the assistance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in getting damage assessments. This is a crucial first step in the process of declaring a federal state of emergency through the Stafford Act. As you know, a declaration by the president of a major disaster must originate from the Governor of the affected State. Erosion along the shoreline is a serious issue; nearly all of the shoreline in New York State erodes at a rate of one foot per year, some parts erode at a rate of more than two feet per year. This recent flooding has exacerbated erosion, some property owners who once had 80 feet of land standing between their home and the lake, are currently looking at 40 feet or less. Numerous shoreline property owners have invested in break-walls surrounding their property that are now sitting far into the lake. Homeowners and shoreline property owners are experiencing tens of thousands of dollars in damage, homes have been condemned, and there is no relief in sight. The National Guard and Army Corps of Engineers have helped counties along the shoreline to fill and place hundreds of thousands of sandbags. Unfortunately, they are no match for waves measured between 5-7 feet tall that are crashing against private property, housing structures, and docks causing irreparable damage to the shoreline. While we commend you for ordering the New York Department of Environmental Conservation to speed up permit processing for the construction of protective structures, we respectfully request that you swiftly begin the process for requesting federal assistance. We must act now to protect our shoreline property owners. ###
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce passed H.R. 2353 -- the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. This bipartisan legislation empowers state and local governments and will help more Americans—especially young Americans—enter the workforce with the tools and knowledge they need to compete for high-skilled, in-demand jobs. “The Perkins Career and Technical Education Act helps to equip students with the skills and experience they need to find jobs that will lead to long, fruitful careers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is especially important in the North Country which is home to many industries ranging from bus and train manufacturing to paper mills and a workforce that is eager for continued opportunity. This important legislation provides a needed update to this program.” The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act will help more individuals gain the knowledge and skills they need to succeed by: Empowering State and Local Community Leaders Improving Alignment with In-Demand Jobs Increasing Transparency and Accountability Ensuring a Limited Federal Role An initiative championed by Rep. Stefanik to allow for arts and design integration under the State Leadership Activities and Local Use of Funds sections was included in this legislation. “One issue I hear from businesses in my district is that they have a desire to find more employees who are not only technically proficient but also possess the creative and design skills found in the arts,” added Stefanik, Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus. “As our world’s challenges become more complex employers need workers who can think outside of the box and creatively attack problems. This holds true whether you are manufacturing a vehicle door, maintaining an automated system or designing the cockpit of a new aircraft, these skills are in demand and we need 21st Century career and technical education to train tomorrow’s workforce. This additional use of funds would support the addition of art and design skills training - when appropriate - into career and technical education programs. It is critical that programs and students who may benefit from exposure and training in the arts have the ability to do so.” For bill text, click here. ###
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Mark Pocan (D-WI-02) Louise Slaughter (D-NY-25), John Duncan (R-TN-02), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-27) and Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA-11) introduced the Perkins Loan Extension Act of 2017 – bipartisan legislation to extend the Perkins Loan Program for a period of two years. The Federal Perkins Loan is a popular and effective campus-based financial aid program, which supports access to higher education by providing low interest loans to students in need. “Perkins Loans are an important resource for low income families in my district who are pursuing their higher education dreams,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the first Member of my immediate family to graduate from college, I know how critical a college degree is to succeeding in a 21st century economy. We must ensure that low income students have access to a quality education, and the Perkins Loan program is a critical tool to help them succeed. I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation.” “The Perkins Loan program helps students struggling to find a way to pay for college in Wisconsin and all across the country,” said Rep. Mark Pocan. “Providing a two year extension of the program is a commonsense step towards ensuring access to this vital tool for making college more affordable. Without Perkins, many students and families would be left with few options to cover college expenses. Two years ago we passed a bipartisan extension of Perkins and I will continue to work tirelessly with my colleagues to make sure it happens again this year.” “A number of students in my District rely on the Perkins Loan Program, so we need to extend the program for another two years,” said Rep. John Duncan. “I believe the entire federal student loan system needs to be revamped and made more efficient, cost-effective, and helpful for our students. But in the meantime, we need to extend the Perkins Loan program for these students while Congress determines how best to improve federal student loans.” “Perkins loans help low-income students access the benefits of a higher education,” said Rep. Louise Slaughter. “This program provides low-interest loans that are paid back to the student’s college, creating a revolving system that supports the next class of deserving students. With no additional funding from the federal government, Perkins loans will continue to help low-income students attain an education and allow them to break the cycle of poverty. It is inexcusable that some politicians are targeting this program for elimination since without Perkins, 500,000 low-income students across the country—nearly 50,000 from New York State and over 6,000 from my district alone—would not have access to a critical safety net.” “The state of California is the second highest recipient of Perkins loans, which help students focus on their studies rather than how they will afford college. By improving affordability of higher education today, we are strengthening the workforce of tomorrow. I am proud to join colleagues from both sides of the aisle to introduce the Perkins Loan Extension Act to help students continue to receive the assistance they need and deserve,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “As a former Florida certified teacher, I’ve been committed to helping students and prospective students achieve their educational goals,” said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “For years, Perkins Loans have empowered many students in South Florida to realize their dream of a college education, and equipped them with the knowledge and tools to have successful professional lives. It is an honor to join with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in this effort to ensure that these loans remain available to low income students. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure the speedy extension of these important loans.” Absent Congressional action, the Perkins Loan program will expire at the end of September leaving around 500,000 students without access to important financial aid. Perkins Loans borrowers are predominantly from lower income families and are often the first in their family to attend college. Unlike many other student loan programs, Perkins is administered directly by colleges and universities who originate the loans, counsel their students through repayment, and select contractors for servicing and collection. Colleges and Universities tailor the program to best fit borrowers’ and institutions’ situations. Perkins is a risk-sharing program with institutions contributing one-third of their students’ awards. This “ownership interest” also contributes to the successful management of this vital program. -67% of Perkins borrowers are dependent students, 34% of whom are from families with household incomes of less than $30,000. -20% of Perkins borrowers are independent students, 70% of whom have personal incomes of less than $20,000. The Perkins Loan program is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2017 if Congress does not act to reauthorize this program. If the Perkins Loan is eliminated, around 500,000 students across the country will not be able to access much-needed financial aid. Click here for text of the legislation. What They’re Saying: “These lawmakers are to be commended for their commitment to extending the Federal Perkins Loan Program and providing higher education access to students who would otherwise be unable to attend or complete college. Each year, more than 500,000 students nationwide rely on low-cost Perkins loans to help finance their education. The Coalition of Higher Education Assistance Organizations (COHEAO) is proud to support these champions in their efforts to extend this long-standing and proven program and we encourage Congress to pass this legislation immediately so that critical funding decisions can be made for these students now.” Maria Livolsi, COHEAO President "The State University of New York proudly supports the Perkins Loan Extension Act, which would ensure continued financial aid for more than 14,000 of our own students and hundreds of thousands more across the country,” said SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher. “Thank you to Congresswoman Stefanik, who has always served as a champion of public higher education and the students who attend our colleges and universities." Additionally, this legislation is supported by: Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU), American Association of Colleges of Nursing, American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, American Council on Education, American Veterinary Medical Association, American College of Nurse-Midwives, Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges, Association of Research Libraries, Board of Directors for the Indiana Association of College and University Business Officers , Coalition of Higher Education Assistance Organizations, Consortium of Universities of the Washington Metropolitan Area, Council for Christian Colleges & Universities, Council for Opportunity in Education, Kentucky Association of Student Receivable Officers, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU) National Association for College Admission Counseling, National Education Association (NEA), National Association Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA), National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO), Nebraska Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, New Jersey Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, New York State Financial Aid Administrators Association (NYSFAAA), Oklahoma State University, Pennsylvania Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, University of California System, University of Maryland System, United Negro College Fund, Utah Association of Student Loan Administrators, Western Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (WASFAA), Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities University Support (82): Adelphi University, Augustana College, Austin College, Arizona State University, Ball State University, Biola University, Boston College, Butler University, University of California System, Chicago State University, Coe College, The College of New Rochelle, College of Saint Mary, The College of William and Mary, Columbia University, Creighton University, D’Youville College, Daemen College, Dartmouth College, DeVry University, Drexel University, Eastern Kentucky University, Emerson College, Fairleigh Dickenson, Fordham University, Florida Institute of Technology, George Washington University School of Medicine, Gonzaga University, Golden Gate University Hobart and William Smith Colleges, La Salle University, Loyola University Chicago, Le Moyne College, Marquette University, Milwaukee School of Engineering, Molloy College, Morehouse College, New York Law School, Northwestern University, Ohio University, Otterbein University, Regis University, Rochester Institute of Technology, University of Rochester, Saint Louis University, Santa Clara University, University of San Francisco, Seton Hall University, Smith College, South Dakota State University, Southeast Missouri University, Southern Methodist University, Southern Utah University, Spring Hill College, St. Olaf College, St. John Fischer College, Suffolk University, State University of New York System (SUNY), Tabor College, Temple University, Trevecca Nazarene University of Tulsa, University, University of Bridgeport, University of Michigan, University of Minnesota, University of Minnesota Duluth, University of Montana, University of New Hampshire, University of Oregon, University of Pennsylvania, University of Portland, University of Southern California, University of the Pacific, Temple University, Union College, University of Virginia, University of Wisconsin Eau Claire, University of Wisconsin Madison, University of Wisconsin Stevens Point, Valparaiso University, Virginia State University, Wayne College, Western University of Health Sciences, Widener University, Wheaton College, Xavier University ###
05.10.2017	Jefferson County, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, toured the Fort Drum healthcare system with Lieutenant General Nadja West, United States Army Surgeon General and Commanding General of the U.S. Army Medical Command. In a visit led by Major General Walter Piatt, Commander, 10th Mountain Division, the group toured Carthage Hospital, Samaritan Hospital and the Fort Drum and Guthrie Ambulatory Health Care Clinic. “I thank Lieutenant General West for making this visit and seeing first-hand the strong healthcare partnership between Fort Drum and the North Country community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Today’s tour was an opportunity to learn more about the incredible work being done by the Fort Drum Healthcare system and to speak to the men and women on the ground about what we can do to continue to improve the quality of care we deliver to our troops. As Congress turns to the NDAA and the Appropriations process, I will continue to fight to make sure Fort Drum and the 10th Mountain Division has a seat at the table and to ensure our brave men and women in uniform get the care they deserve.” In Congress, Rep. Stefanik is the author of several important measures to help our military families, including the Support Our Military Caregivers Act – legislation she has championed to reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Family Caregiver Program to help better support family members caring for seriously wounded veterans. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement in support of the American Health Care Act – legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare with reforms to lower costs and increase access for North Country families and businesses. “Throughout this process, I have worked to make sure our district has had a seat at the table. I have kept one of my first promises that I made to you, which is that any law we pass applies to Members of Congress just as it would any citizen. That’s why I’ve coauthored successful legislation to ensure that Congress lives by the same rules in this bill as everyone else. I have also worked to have additional funding added for maternity care and language included to reduce the Medicaid mandate on our local counties. “The American Health Care Act is not perfect, but it is an important step in reforming our broken healthcare system to help families in our district. As this legislation moves to the Senate, I will continue to work to strengthen the support for those with pre-existing conditions. “This House vote is the first step in a long legislative process. I am committed to achieving a 21st century healthcare system that lowers costs, improves access and increases quality for hard working North Country families.” Alongside the American Healthcare Act, the House will vote today on H.R. 2192 – legislation Rep. Stefanik coauthored to remove a health care exemption for Members of Congress. ###
05.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations Bill passed the House of Representatives with Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s (R-NY-21) initiative to expand access to Pell Grants year-round included. More information on the Omnibus can be found here. “Since first arriving in Congress I’ve been fighting to expand access to Pell year-round so that our North Country students have more flexibility and access to an affordable education,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The idea for this legislative initiative came from Jefferson Community College President Carole McCoy at a higher education roundtable I hosted in the district. “Right now, Pell Grants are only available for qualifying students during the fall and spring semesters. By expanding the eligibility window to include summer classes and increasing the possible maximum Pell Grant award by 50 percent, we can make sure that low and middle income families have added flexibility to achieve a college degree. As the first member of my immediate family to graduate from college, making higher education more affordable and more accessible is a top priority of mine as a Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. I look forward to seeing the Senate pass this legislation quickly and send it to the President to be signed into law.” Student demographics have changed dramatically in recent decades. Whereas the majority of students used to enroll in a four-year, full-time program fresh out of high school, an increasing number of students – “contemporary students” – are older, have a family, and work full- or part-time jobs. These students are looking to quickly and affordably earn a degree that will help them compete and succeed in the workforce. Unfortunately, outdated higher education programs do not meet the needs of contemporary students. For example, while the Pell Grant provides support for more than one-third of all undergraduate students, the program fails to adequately support those who want to complete their studies more quickly by taking additional courses beyond the traditional academic year. Instead, students who receive Pell Grants are bound to a rigid system based on a six-year, two-semester timeline – discouraging many students from pursing higher education altogether. What They’re Saying: Carole A. McCoy, President, Jefferson Community College: I greatly appreciate Congresswoman Stefanik’s steadfast commitment to helping students reach their educational goals. Her support for enhancements to the Pell program has been unwavering and it is gratifying to see these efforts come to fruition. The increase in the annual Pell maximum helps to make higher education more affordable for the neediest students. Restoration of year-round access to Pell funding is beneficial to all students, but especially for part-time students who are often working toward their degree while holding a job and having a family. Nancy L. Zimpher, SUNY Chancellor: “As the foundation of federal student aid, the Pell Grant program provides college access for students who might not otherwise be able to attend college, so this is a big win for SUNY students now and in the future," said “We appreciate Congresswoman Stefanik and her colleagues work to reinstate Year Round Pell, helping thousands of SUNY students complete their degrees on time and at less cost.” Kristine Duffy, President, SUNY Adirondack: "Congresswoman Stefanik's tireless and steadfast commitment to the needs of students has finally come to fruition through the restoration of year-round PELL. SUNY Adirondack's eligible students will have the necessary funds to keep them on track to graduate by staying enrolled throughout the year. We thank her and all other members of Congress for their support of our neediest students." Todd Moravec, Director of Student Financial Services, SUNY College at Plattsburgh: “The passage of the Flexible Pell Grant program will allow our high-need students continue to make progress toward their Bachelor's degree during the summer months. Students who elect to capitalize on this opportunity should graduate faster and accumulate less student debt along the way. On behalf of our high need-students, I would like to thank Congresswoman Elise Stefanik for her support of this program.” ###
05.03.2017	Plattsburgh, NY – The registration period for seating at Congresswoman Stefanik’s May 8th televised town hall has ended and the studio audience has been invited by email and phone. Almost 270 constituents registered to attend the event and 100 of those have been randomly selected through a lottery by Mountain Lake PBS to attend live in studio. Constituents who are unable to attend are encouraged to reach out to our office directly to take part in our future events. “I am looking forward to this wide ranging discussion with families from across our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Over the past several weeks I’ve had the opportunity to meet with hundreds of constituents in over 50 small meetings both in the district and in Washington to discuss important issues facing our region and our nation, in addition to calling tens of thousands more in recent telephone town halls. I also recently held my 15th ‘Coffee with Your Congresswoman’ event in Johnstown with almost 100 constituents in attendance. These conversations are critical for me to be able to represent you in Congress, and I encourage those who are not able to attend this town hall in person to watch live online where you can also submit your questions.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s Mountain Lake Townhall will be streamed live online on May 8th at 6:30pm at mountainlake.org/stefanik. Those watching online can submit their questions using the hashtag #StefanikForum. The town hall will then be broadcast by Mountain Lake PBS on May 9th, at 9:00PM. ###
05.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, voted in support of H.R. 1180, the Working Families Flexibility Act – legislation she cosponsored to allow employers to offer paid time off in place of cash wages for overtime hours worked by private sector employees. “Our workforce has changed dramatically over the past few decades and we must update our laws and regulations to follow suit,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This commonsense legislation gives needed flexibility to our workforce by allowing employees to choose comp time as payment for overtime work -- the same flexibility government employees have long enjoyed. This will also give North Country employers a powerful new tool to recruit top talent. I urge the Senate to quickly pass this important legislation and send it to the President’s desk.” ###
05.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement applauding important wins for New York’s 21st District in the just released FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations Bill: “This government funding package includes many important provisions that I have fought for on behalf of my district, and I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues in the House to pass this legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. Defense and Support for Our Troops “This legislation will help us begin to rebuild our military by providing a $15 billion funding increase. It also gives our brave men and women in uniform a deserved pay raise,” added Stefanik.” Year Round Pell “I am particularly pleased that this legislation includes language to expand access to Pell grants year round -- this is an issue I have been a leader on in the House of Representatives and this expansion will make a real difference in the lives of our students. Right now, Pell Grants are only available for qualifying students during the fall and spring semesters. By expanding the eligibility window to include summer classes and increasing the possible maximum Pell Grant award by 50 percent, we can make sure that low and middle income families have added flexibility to achieve a college degree.” Combating the Opioid Epidemic “As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I am also pleased that this legislation contains a $650 million increase in funding to address the prevention and treatment of opioid and heroin use. Far too many families in our district are impacted by this tragic epidemic, and we must continue to work together at the federal, state and local level to find solutions.” Great Lakes Restoration Initiative “As a strong supporter of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and a leader in Congress on combating invasive species, I am also pleased this legislation includes $300,000,000 to support the GLRI. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to fully fund this important program that protects our ecological gems.” LIHEAP “The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program provides critical resources for the most vulnerable in our district, and this bill provides more than $3.39 billion in federal assistance for this important program.” National Institutes of Health “This legislation includes a $2 billion increase for the National Institutes of Health, which does critical work to research and develop new treatments. In a 21st Century healthcare system, we must prioritize biomedical research so we can finally tackle the most pressing health issues facing our nation.” NEA “As the Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus, I am pleased that this bill includes additional funding for the NEA. The Arts strengthens our communities and helps drive our local economies, and I will continue to support funding for the arts in Congress. ###
04.28.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was awarded the Medical Device Manufacturers Association (MDMA) Chairman’s Award at a meeting in Washington, D.C. last night in recognition of her support of med-tech innovation and improving patient care. “As the Representative of numerous medical device firms, this award and recognition for my work to fight Obamacare’s medical device tax is truly an honor,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The medical device industry does critical work to improve healthcare for families across my district and across our nation, in addition to creating jobs in the North Country economy. The medical device tax is a burdensome tax that hurts our healthcare and kills jobs and I will continue to lead the fight in Congress to repeal it.” Since arriving in Congress, Rep. Stefanik has been a leader in the fight against the medical device tax and helped pass legislation that was signed into law that suspended the tax for two years. ###
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored legislation that would make a correction to the American Health Care Act (AHCA) as amended that exempts Members of Congress from the same rules all other states would be subjected to if the AHCA becomes law. Due to a drafting requirement, the MacArthur Amendment to the AHCA would allow states to opt out of certain Obamacare regulations but exempt Members of Congress and their staff. “Congress should live by the same laws it passes onto the rest of the nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is why I receive my healthcare through the Obamacare exchanges, though I decline the Congressional subsidy. This commonsense legislation would ensure Members of Congress do not receive special treatment if the AHCA becomes law.” This legislation, introduced by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ-02), is a simple, two-page bill that says when the AHCA becomes law, the section exempting members of Congress and congressional staff from the waivers is repealed. ###
04.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a bipartisan group of 68 lawmakers wrote to President Donald J. Trump applauding the President’s acknowledgement of Canada’s protectionist trade policies related to dairy products and advocating for swift action to ensure Canada upholds its trade agreements. “President Trump’s statement last week was right,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Canada’s actions are harmful to New York dairy farmers. Our dairy producers and manufacturers have already lost out on export opportunities and I am greatly concerned that dairy sales to Canada will further erode at a time when our dairy farmers are facing some of the lowest milk prices in recent years.” “Trade with Canada is very important to both New York and Canada, and we need to be clear with Canada as they contemplate additional dairy policies that will harm New York’s dairy sector.” The letter details Canadian trade practices that “may violate Canada’s existing trade commitments to the United States by effectively discouraging U.S. dairy exports to Canada.” It also reinforces that “our districts and states rely on the jobs the dairy industry provides and cannot afford further protectionist policies from our northern neighbor.” Full text of the letter along with signatories can be seen here and full text can be read below. April 26, 2017 Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Mr. President: We write to thank you for your recent acknowledgement of Canada’s protectionist dairy policies and urge your administration to take swift action to hold Canada to its trade commitments in this area. The U.S. dairy sector relies on its exports to survive. In 2016, the industry exported approximately 15 percent of its milk production, worth roughly $5 billion. To our NAFTA partners alone, the United States exported $1.2 billion of dairy products to Mexico and $631 million to Canada. To that end, U.S. exports helped the dairy sector maintain roughly 110,000 U.S. jobs in farming and manufacturing. Unfortunately, Canada’s recent revisions to its milk classification system have prompted serious concerns. Canadians traditionally used five classes to price its products, ranging from fluid milks and creams to milk used for further processing. In April 2016, the Canadian province of Ontario began implementing a new milk price class, Class 6, which has dramatically altered dairy imports and skewed the market. More recently, Canada’s newly implemented Class 7 National Ingredients Strategy has displaced current U.S. imports and is poised to negatively impact global milk powder markets. We are concerned that these programs may violate Canada’s existing trade commitments to the United States by effectively discouraging U.S. dairy exports to Canada. The Ontario Class 6 program has already slashed U.S. exports of ultra-filtered milk starting in mid-2016 and U.S. companies are reporting further losses of contracts. The loss of these and other exports because of the Class 6 and 7 programs will continue to harm American dairy manufacturers and their supplying farms. Our districts and states rely on the jobs the dairy industry provides and cannot afford further protectionist policies from our northern neighbor. As your administration crafts NAFTA priorities, we must ensure that our trade partners maintain compliance with ongoing agreements. Please stand with us in enforcing current law and opposing Canadian policies that disrupt global milk powder markets and directly hurt American exports. ###
04.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today, the National Association of Rail Passengers, an organization representing the 40 million Americans who rely on passenger trains and rail transit, honored Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) with the “Golden Spike Award” for her efforts to successfully enact legislation to facilitate travel and commerce between the United States and Canada “I thank the National Association of Rail Passengers for this tremendous honor,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act is a landmark piece of bipartisan legislation that I was proud to help lead through Congress and see signed into law. Increasing commerce with our Canadian neighbors is a top economic priority for my district, and this legislation will help build increased economic ties while supporting travel, commerce and tourism between our two nations. Furthermore, this legislation will help build integrated defense capabilities to maintain a secure Northern border. Importantly for the North Country, this legislation will facilitate Amtrak service from Montreal to the North Country, and will reinforce the future of small border crossings by allowing joint operations along the border. Thank you again to the National Association of Rail Passengers for this honor and their support on this important issue.” Click here for more information on the legislation. This legislation was signed into law on December 16th, 2016. ###
04.24.2017	Johnstown, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted a “Coffee with Your Congresswoman” at the Shirley J. Luck Senior Citizens Center in Johnstown, NY, where she spoke and took questions from almost 100 constituents. “Over the past several weeks I’ve had the opportunity to meet with hundreds of constituents in over 50 small meetings across the district and in Washington to discuss a range of issues facing our region and facing our nation, in addition to calling tens of thousands more in recent telephone town halls,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Today’s Coffee event was the 15th one I’ve hosted, and it was a great opportunity to hear concerns directly from constituents. I look forward to speaking with families across our district about the issues facing Congress and our region.” Congresswoman Stefanik will continue hosting more constituent meetings, telephone town halls, Coffee with Your Congresswoman events, and is hosting a televised townhall with Mountain Lake PBS on Friday, May 8th in Plattsburgh. As a reminder, all official events with Congresswoman Stefanik will be announced from our office. ###
04.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, returned from a Congressional Delegation visit she led to Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Jordan. Members attending this delegation included Congressman Tom Suozzi, (D-NY), Congressman Anthony Brown (D-MD), and Congressman Keith Rothfus (R-PA). “The Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee has an important oversight role for counter-terrorism programs and initiatives and counter proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Additionally, this subcommittee oversees U.S. Special Operations Forces, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, information technology and programs, force protection policy and oversight, and related intelligence support. It makes sure that our nation is protected against terrorist attacks and unconventional threats. “This trip was a critical opportunity for me and my colleagues to conduct oversight of the policy, strategy, and resource issues associated with Operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq/Syria and Operation Resolute Support in Afghanistan. Among our briefings and meetings, our delegation met with the Commander of all U.S. Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Syria for full updates on current and future operations to counter ISIS, including partnering engagements and operations with the units from the Iraqi Army and the Syrian Democratic Forces. “This trip was also a special opportunity to visit with our brave men and women in uniform deployed in this region. I had the opportunity to visit many constituents from our district, including servicemen and women from Greenwich, Plattsburgh, Star Lake, Schuylerville, Turin, Saranac Lake, Saratoga, Wilton, Cambridge, South Glens Falls, Lake George and Massena. “I thank my colleagues for joining me on this important Delegation visit, and most importantly, I thank all the brave men and women in uniform who are putting their lives at risk to keep us safe.” For more photos of Congresswoman Stefanik’s delegation visit, click here. ###
04.07.2017	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced a televised town hall: “Over the past several weeks I’ve had the opportunity to meet with hundreds of constituents in over 50 small meetings across the district and in Washington to discuss a range of issues facing our region and facing our nation, in addition to calling tens of thousands more in recent telephone town halls,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am excited to announce that I will be hosting a televised town hall in Plattsburgh with Mountain Lake PBS in May, in addition to my continued outreach through ‘Coffee with Your Congresswoman’ events throughout the district. Thank you to the thousands of constituents who have shared their important opinions with me – I look forward to continuing my strong record of engagement throughout the district.” Congresswoman Stefanik will be hosting a televised town hall moderated by Thom Hallock on May 8th from Plattsburgh that will be live streamed online and broadcast on television to thousands of families across the district. Congresswoman Stefanik will continue hosting more constituent meetings, telephone town halls, Coffee with Your Congresswoman events, and another televised town hall and details will be forthcoming. As a reminder, all official events with Congresswoman Stefanik will be announced from our office. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the U.S. military strikes in Syria: "This week the world watched in horror as the Assad regime used chemical weapons to murder dozens of men, women and children. The Obama Administration policy towards Syria has failed and we need a new strategy. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, this will be an important part of our work and I will be monitoring the situation closely with my colleagues." ###
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Support Our Military Caregivers Act – legislation she has championed to reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Family Caregiver Program to help better support family members caring for seriously wounded veterans. “Those who are hurt while protecting our nation deserve the best care we can provide, and this important legislation will help our Military Caregivers receive the benefits they need to take care of our heroes,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was proud to introduce this important legislation after meeting with a constituent from Alexandria Bay who is a caregiver facing the burden of the VA backlog. I was proud to successfully pass this bill through the House last session and look forward to pushing it through both Chambers of Congress and to the President’s desk this time around. “Over the last 16 years of war, our servicemembers have bravely served our nation and their families have sacrificed an immeasurable amount – so it is vital that we ensure they receive the best possible care. This is especially true for our military caregivers – loved ones of our servicemembers who selflessly care for our heroes behind the scenes. Military caregivers are silent heroes in our communities and deserve the respect and benefits proportionate to their significant contributions.” “Our district is home to more veterans than any district in New York, and it is important that we do what we can to take care of our wounded warriors. I am proud to introduce this commonsense legislation that will make reforms to the Family Caregiver Program to give Military Caregivers the benefits they deserve.” The Family Caregiver Program, mandated by Congress in 2010, was designed to help support family members caring for seriously-wounded veterans in the post-9/11 era. Major features of the program include medical support for caregivers, who often suffer from health problems as they focus on the veteran's well-being, and providing stipends to compensate caregivers' time. This program is currently experiencing delays in approval of benefits. Caregivers who are denied eligibility for the program or believe the veteran's rating is not appropriate may appeal such decisions with the VA Medical Centers (VAMC) with the assistance of VA Caregiver Support Coordinators. VA officials originally estimated that approximately 4,000 family caregivers would be approved for the program; however, by 2016 there were 15,600 approved with another 14,800 applications remaining. This unanticipated deluge overwhelmed staff allocated for the program, causing a backlog. For example, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that some VA facilities were not returning caregiver phone calls. To further complicate the problem, family caregivers who have been denied program benefits are now filing appeals, leaving the VA with two issues: The inability to process the flood of caregiver applications; and An expanding backlog of appeals filed by frustrated caregivers Whether the decisions received by appealing veterans are favorable or not, they should be timely, fair, impartial and accurate. While proposals by the VA Department will help, it appears that a substantial transformation of processes and clinical reviews are still needed to significantly reduce the amount of time veterans wait for decisions on their appeals. Immediate and effective relief is required as continued delays will only increase as the number of mounting appeals. Congresswoman Stefanik’s bill, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act, would ensure that new or modified processes and systems are veteran-centric, outcomes-based and continually improved through the use of best practices. This would be done by directing the Department of Veterans Affairs to contract with a third party in order to streamline claims and reduce the Caregiver backlog. For text of the bill, click here. Original cosponsors of this bill include Reps. John Carter (R-TX-31), Paul Cook (R-CA-08), Kevin Cramer (R-ND-01), John Faso (R-NY-19), Walter Jones (R-NC-03), Pete Olson (R-TX-22), Jim Renacci (R-OH-16), Edward Royce (R-CA-39), Daniel Webster (R-FL-11), David Young (R-IA-03), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY-01). ###
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce passed two bills to reform juvenile justice laws and help missing and exploited children. “Too often our most vulnerable fall through the cracks of our justice system, and I was pleased to work with my colleagues to pass these important measures to help youth out of our committee today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The bills we passed today will help modernize our laws and give states more flexibility meeting the needs of delinquent youth, strengthen our ability to recover missing children and defend them against violent crimes. I thank my colleagues on the Committee for their work on these important initiatives and look forward to helping pass them through the full House of Representatives.” The two bills passed out of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce today are: · The Improving Support for Missing & Exploited Children Act (H.R. 1808) that will update and streamline the Missing Children’s Assistance Act to strengthen efforts to recover missing children and protect youth who are the victims of sexual exploitation. · And the Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2017 (H.R. 1809) that will reauthorize and reform the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act to help state and local leaders better serve at-risk youth and juvenile offenders. ###
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced a House Resolution in support of our Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans. “This resolution will help ensure that our brave Blue Water Vietnam Vets get the care they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We should never leave behind our veterans who served heroically and this resolution will help ensure those who were exposed to Agent Orange get the benefits they are entitled to. I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense measure.” "These honorable veterans took an oath to defend this nation at all costs including their lives,” said Susie Belanger, Special Projects Director, Blue Water Navy Association. “Our country needs to keep their promise that they would be cared for when they returned. They stand up not only for themselves, but for all the future warriors who are exposed to war time chemicals and injuries. The Vietnam Veteran did not receive a hero’s welcome when they came home. Although they are proud to hear "Welcome Home" now; actions to restore their earned and deserved benefits will clearly support that meaning. I am proud to call Congresswoman Stefanik my representative as she wasted no time to take action to support this issue." The resolution expresses the sense of Congress that those who served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam during the period from January 9, 1962 – May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have been exposed to the toxin Agent Orange and should be eligible for all related Federal benefits associated with the Agent Orange Act of 1991. Under the VA’s current interpretation of the Agent Orange Act of 1991, Vietnam Veterans must have stepped foot on the land of Vietnam or served on its inland waterways anytime between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975, to be presumed to have been exposed to herbicides when claiming service-connection for diseases related to Agent Orange exposure. This determination leaves many of our Navy vets unable to claim benefits they need. This resolution would help broaden the presumption of service connection for diseases associated with exposure by veterans to certain herbicide agents while in Vietnam. Including the territorial seas and offshore waters will provide eligibility for care to a larger group of Vietnam Veterans impacted by exposure to such herbicides. Click here for text of the resolution. Original cosponsors of this resolution include Reps. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN-07), Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU-01), Ryan Costello (R-PA-06), Joe Courtney (D-CT-02), Charlie Crist (D-FL-13), Rosa Delauro (D-CT-03), Jenniffer Gonzalez-Colon (R-PR-01), Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ-05), Sam Graves (R-MO-06), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI-01), Jim Himes (D-CT-04), Walter Jones (R-NC-03), Pete King (R-NY-02), Leonard Lance (R-NJ-07), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ-02), Frank Pallone (D-NJ-06), Jamie Raskin (D-MD-08), Kathleen Rice (D-NY-04), Dennis Ross (R-FL-15), Tim Ryan (D-OH-13), Thomas Suozzi (D-NY-03), Claudia Tenney (R-NY-22), Fred Upton (R-MI-06), David Valadao (R-CA-21), Timothy Walz (D-MN-01), and Ted Yoho (R-FL-03). ###
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act -- bipartisan legislation to alleviate the undue stress, expenses, and excessive wait times professionally employed military spouses experience when their family moves for a Permanent Change of Station on military orders. Click here or on the image above for video of Rep. Stefanik’s floor remarks: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our resilient military families. “These families endure countless relocations and deployments, every couple of years transitioning to new schools, new jobs, and fitting into new communities. “Military spouses wear their own patches of service and share a true sense of duty to our country. “They sacrifice a great deal of themselves amid strain and the unknown, while providing unyielding support to their spouse in uniform. “Military spouses are often employed in professions which require new licensing that vary from state to state with fees and wait times. “To alleviate this burden and provide predictability in the lives of military spouses and their families, I have reintroduced the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act. “Military spouses serve too – and my bill will help alleviate unnecessary stress and expenses, help make job changes easier, and will give these spouses and their families some deserved predictability as they serve their nation. “I urge my colleagues to support this important bill and I yield back” The Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act will: Require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station. Expedite license portability. Require the Department of Defense to conduct a study to determine ways to improve the military spouse unemployment and underemployment rate. Click here for bill text. Original cosponsors of this legislation include: Reps. Walter Jones (R-NC-03), Pete King (R-NY-02), Denny Heck (D-WA-10), Daniel Webster (R-FL-11), John Delaney (D-MD-06), Tim Walz (D-MN-01), John Faso (R-NY-19), and Bobby L. Rush (D-IL-01). ###
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. —Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement on healthcare: “Obamacare is broken. Constituents in our district continue to see double digit premium increases, sky high deductibles and lack of access to the care they need. “Throughout this process, I’ve fought for the needs of the North Country, and negotiated better access for critical issues like women’s health and maternity care. “We need to continue working to find solutions we can agree on that will help fix our broken healthcare system. “I am committed to achieving a 21st century healthcare system and will continue to work to replace Obamacare with reforms that lower costs, increase access and improve quality for hard working North Country families.” ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Martha McSally (AZ-02), Thomas MacArthur (NJ-03), and Tim Murphy (PA-18) together worked with House Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration to further improve the American Health Care Act (AHCA). The members successfully negotiated to provide states, through the Patient and State Stability Fund, with supplemental funding so they have the ability to obtain additional resources that will provide new mothers and those struggling with mental and substance abuse disorders access to care while the nation transitions to the new health care system. House leadership and the White House has agreed to incorporate these changes into the AHCA. Representative Stefanik said: “Throughout negotiations with Congressional leadership and the White House, I have insisted that protections for maternity care must be included in any final package. I spoke out in support of protections for mothers and children in meetings at the White House and with the House Leadership and Committee Chairs who have drafted this replacement legislation. I am pleased that I was able to secure this critical amendment. Since I ran for Congress in 2013, I said that we must keep the parts of the Affordable Care Act that are working as we fix our broken healthcare system, and this amendment will maintain significant funding for maternity and preventative care, especially in states that do not have the insurance protections we have in New York. This is a win for families across the district and the country, and I will continue to work to improve this legislation and to achieve a 21st century healthcare system for the nation.” Representative McSally said: “The amendment we successfully negotiated today is another important win for families. It secures an additional $15 billion to offer crucial care for mothers and their newborns, and for those who struggle with mental health disorders and substance abuse. The Affordable Care Act simply isn’t working, and this victory is another step in the right direction. By giving the states support to implement a smooth and stable transition, this amendment will prevent individuals who need healthcare the most from slipping through the cracks. We aren’t landing a helicopter, we are landing a 747, and we need a lot of runway to ensure a smooth transition to a system that lowers costs, expands choice, and increases quality of care. This amendment lengthens that runway.” Representative MacArthur, who is both the co-chair of the moderate Tuesday Group and the co-chair of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, said: “The addiction crisis has touched so many families throughout the United States, especially in my home state of New Jersey where in Ocean County—located in my district—there’s one overdose death every 43 hours. After adding $90 billion for older Americans and $60 billion for low-income seniors and the disabled, we’ve won another victory for the most vulnerable in our society. This bill is not perfect—no bill is—but I decided when I got here that Congress has enough obstructionists and I’ve been working constructively over the past weeks to improve it by offering specific proposals that will ensure Americans will be able to receive affordable quality care.” Representative Murphy said: “We are building on our successful record of helping families in mental health and addiction crisis. This $15 billion investment, which is five times the size of the federal mental health block grant, represents the largest surge in behavioral health funding in recent history. This is a big win for all the families who for too long have lived in the shadows, for all the patients who have been left out of America’s health care system. Alongside President Trump and Secretary Price, we're going to keep our promise to deliver treatment before tragedy.” Speaker Ryan said, “We accepted this additional amendment to the AHCA which includes funds for mental health, maternity, and substance abuse care. I am thankful for Reps. McSally, MacArthur, Stefanik, & Murphy whose involvement continues to improve this bill. The AHCA has been, and continues to be, a member-driven initiative, as this negotiating process exemplifies. Our goal is to provide Americans with a better health care plan by expanding choice, lowering costs, and increasing the quality of coverage—and that’s what we continue to strive toward.” Inclusion of this language builds on changes that Rep. McSally, Rep. MacArthur and Rep. Stefanik fought to include in amendments to the AHCA earlier this week that provide a smoother transition to the post-Affordable Care Act healthcare system and additional resources for our most vulnerable citizens. Additionally, these changes are another step towards fixing our broken mental health care system—a multi-year effort by House Republicans, led by Rep. Tim Murphy, that saw a major leap forward with passage of the 21st Century Cures healthcare reform package. ###
03.23.2017	Glens Falls, NY – Local officials continue to weigh in to support the Medicaid Local Share Limitation initiative that would bar federal reimbursements for New York State Medicaid funds raised from local governments. “Counties across my district and across New York are being unfairly subjected to massive financial liabilities being imposed by the state that can have severe impact on our local property taxes,” said Congresswoman Elise Stefanik. “This amendment would make New York State take responsibility for their own budgeting, freeing up needed funds at the county level for local governments to use in our communities. I thank my colleagues in the New York delegation for their work on this important issue and will continue to work in Congress to serve the needs of my district." What They’re Saying: Randy Preston, Chairman of Essex County Board of Supervisors: “As Essex Chairman, I applaud Rep. Stefanik in supporting this important amendment as the Medicaid costs are crushing counties, and then it rolls down to the property tax as there is no other way to fund this at the County level.” Mike Tabolt, Chairman, Lewis County Board of Legislators: “For too long New York State has handed our local taxpayers a directive to participate in a program they have no voice in. The passing of this amendment would present the opportunity to give our overwhelmed property tax payers immediate relief by forcing New York State to be accountable as they determine how they will pay for the richest Medicaid Plan in our Nation.” Spencer Hellwig, Saratoga County Administrator: “Medicaid represents $24.5M of the county’s $56.5M net cost for unfunded State mandates. Virtually every State in the nation covers the entire local share of Medicaid which means 50% Federal and 50% State. Unfortunately, in NYS it is 50% Federal, 25% State, and 25% County and the reality is all the decisions related to services and benefits are made at the State level with us left to pay for programs we have no control over. “Further, the current Tax Cap law is a one size fits all approach that ignores the fact that Saratoga County was way ahead of the curve in terms of maintaining the lowest and most stable tax rate in the entire state. The Board of Supervisors has done this on their own for 30 years without the State of New York passing legislation that is shortsighted in terms of our operational and capital needs. “Relative to the State or governor proposing the use of local sales tax dollars to cover the proposed Medicaid cost shift I can only say that we’re already paying more than our fair share under the circumstances. The County already splits their sales tax collections with the Towns and the Cities so this legislation will further complicate our ability to provide an assortment of non-mandated services like public safety, road & bridge maintenance, public health programs, mental health programs, and veterans services. Taking away any of our sales tax with the current tax cap in place with force the Board to eliminate or significantly scale back essential services for our residents.” Assemblywoman Mary Beth Walsh (R,C,I,Ref-Ballston): “New York is one of the few states in the country that forces local governments to shoulder the weight of Medicaid expenses, and this financial burden continues to limit the counties ability to pay for necessary programs and services. By mandating the State of New York to take over this enormous cost, counties would be provided the opportunity to lower property taxes and provide relief for their residents over time. Moving forward, it is critical for State and Federal leaders to work together to enact the best possible solution for New Yorkers.” Assemblyman Ken Blankenbush (R,C,I-Black River): “My Conference has been pushing for mandate relief for years, only to be blocked by the Assembly Democrats on each occasion. It’s time we relieve the stress that the Medicaid bill places on our localities and force the State of New York to shoulder this financial burden. “We must also pass legislation to ensure the surplus funds from this transfer of responsibility find their way back into the pockets of taxpayers and that property tax relief is included with this policy. The taxpayers of this state have been beholden to overspending for far too long, and this is our opportunity to repay them for their troubles.” Kevin Acres, Chairman, SLC Board of Legislators: “One half of St. Lawrence County's local tax levy, 24 million dollars , goes to New York State's mandate that counties pay half of their Medicaid expenses. If the mandate was removed, St. Lawrence County could potentially lower county taxes by 60%.” Scott Gray, Chairman, Jefferson County Board of Legislators: “The proposed amendment would give us greater ability to hold the line on property taxes while at the same time maintain our roads and bridges, which currently is not happening at the level necessary to prevent severe deterioration. Further, other programs and services that are provided by the utilization of local tax dollars are at risk of being seriously diminished or even eliminated. This amendment is extremely important for today and future generations in order for us to be stewards of the taxpayers' assets and not pass on unnecessary debt to the next generation.” G. Michael Kinowski, Chairman, Fulton County Board of Supervisors: “I am writing regarding federal legislation sponsored by the New York State Congressional delegation that would remove the giant burden of Medicaid costs from property tax payers in the state. The Board of Supervisors strongly supports the legislation to halt the NYS Medicaid Mandate. “This legislation, if enacted, will simultaneously reduce county property taxes by 50 percent and unleash an unprecedented economic revival all across New York State. It is definitely a step in the right direction and I commend you for your forthright efforts to get it enacted.” James Monty, Supervisor, Town of Lewis: “I feel this is long overdue and support this completely. New York State has a history of unfunded mandates that trickle down to the local governments, County and Town. While removing the burden from the State, we still have to account for the funding somehow. The State would like people to believe that they are reducing the burden on taxpayers to make themselves look good, instead shifting this to the local level trying to make it appear that local government is at fault. Kudos to Congresswoman Stefanik for standing up for the local people.” Edward "Ned" LeMieux, Supervisor, Town of Duane: “I am fully in favor of any amendment, proposal, or law that will mitigate the strain that Medicaid payments put on our County Legislators. This would be a tax break that, in my view would benefit all Franklin County taxpayers. This amendment also shows me that Elise is working on our behalf, just as she said she would.” Matthew Hicks, Vice Chairman, Washington County Board of Supervisors: “I am supportive of this proposal as it would allow Counties in Upstate NY to provide much needed property tax relief to our constituents. In Washington County, over 1/3 or our tax levy is Medicaid payments, which should be the responsibility of the State. We appreciate Elise looking out for the interests of rural New Yorkers. ###
03.22.2017	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 21st district. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 21st District. “The Congressional Art Competition is an incredible opportunity for the gifted students of our district to showcase their talents,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Each year my offices receive dozens of amazing pieces for this competition and I look forward to seeing the submissions from students across the district. The winner of the competition will have the honor of having their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year for visitors from around the world to see.” Artwork entered in the contest must be original in execution, may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches, 4 inches in depth and cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. The artwork may be: Paintings - including oil, acrylics and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage (must be 2 dimensional) Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints Mixed Media – use of two or more mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor Computer Generated Art Photography Art submissions along with a Congressional release form must be submitted to one of Congresswoman Stefanik’s district office locations no later than April 28, 2017. The Congressional release form can be found here and more information about the competition’s rules and guidelines is posted here. ###
03.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce honored Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of her support for pro-growth policies in the second session of the 114th Congress. “I thank the U.S. Chamber for this great honor and recognition of my support for pro-growth policies in Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As someone who grew up in a small business family, I know that the U.S. Chamber is the guardian of the business community in many ways. Promoting economic growth and job creation is my top priority in Congress, and I will continue to advocate for policies that will help North Country families and businesses.” “Businesses of all shapes and sizes need sound, commonsense policy in place in order to get off the ground, grow, and succeed,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes those members of Congress who have done what’s right for our friends, family, and neighbors running businesses across the country. We applaud Congresswoman Stefanik for her commitment to free enterprise and economic growth.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s annual scorecard, How They Voted. Congresswoman Stefanik received a cumulative score of 96 percent in the 114th Congress. ###
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass three bipartisan measures to help veterans across the district. “Our district is the proud home of more veterans than any district in New York and I continue to work in Congress to ensure our heroes have the support they need,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The measures we passed out of the House this week protect our veterans’ rights as well as seek to improve the care they receive at the VA. My offices are dedicated to serving our heroes and I encourage anyone who is having trouble working with the VA to reach out to my office so we can help.” The legislation passed out of the House this week includes: H.R. 1181 – Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act (Sponsored by Rep. Phil Roe / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 1259 – VA Accountability First Act of 2017 (Sponsored by Rep. Phil Roe / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 1367 – To improve the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, Rules Committee Print (Sponsored by Rep. Brad Wenstrup / Veterans Affairs Committee) ###
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) took to the House floor to speak on the important climate change resolution she has introduced with sixteen of her House Republican colleagues. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, my district is the proud home to the Adirondack Park, an environmental treasure. We understand in the North Country that protecting our environment plays an important role in promoting economic growth and opportunity. Along with 16 of my colleagues, I am proud to introduce a resolution calling on the House of Representatives to commit to working on economically viable solutions that address the threat of climate change. Clean energy innovation is critical, and this resolution brings together the priority of addressing the risks of climate change with the importance of protecting and creating American jobs. This resolution calls on “American ingenuity, innovation, and exceptionalism,” also citing that it is a “conservative principle to protect, conserve, and be good stewards of our environment.” No matter what side of the aisle you’re on, we all have a significant responsibility to protect our environment from avoidable damage. I ask my colleagues to join in this commitment and support this important resolution. I yield back. ###
03.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Congressman Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), and Congressman Ryan Costello (PA06) led a group of House Republican colleagues in introducing a resolution that calls for using American innovation to improve environmental stewardship. The lawmakers were joined by fourteen other Members of Congress: Reps. Mark Amodei (NV-02), Don Bacon (NE-02), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), John Faso (NY-19), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), John Katko (NY-24), Mia Love (UT-04), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02), Brian Mast (FL-18), Pat Meehan (PA-07), Tom Reed (NY-23), David Reichert (WA-08), and Mark Sanford (SC-01). The resolution introduced today calls on the House of Representatives to commit to working on economically viable solutions that address the risks of climate change, calling on “American ingenuity, innovation, and exceptionalism, “ and citing the “conservative principle to protect, conserve, and be good stewards of our environment.” “I am pleased to introduce this resolution with so many of my Republican colleagues and I thank them for their support on this effort,” said Congresswoman Stefanik (NY-21). “Clean energy innovation is key to addressing the serious issue of climate change. This resolution brings together the priority of addressing the risks of climate change with the importance of protecting and creating American jobs. Innovation and clean energy are key to solving both. New York’s 21st district is the proud home of the Adirondacks and we understand that protecting our environment plays an important role in promoting economic growth and opportunity.” "With forty percent of Florida’s population at risk from sea-level rise, my state is on the front lines of climate change,” said Congressman Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), co-chair of the Climate Solutions Caucus. “South Florida residents are already beginning to feel the effects of climate change in their daily lives – from chronic flooding to coral bleaching to threats to our freshwater supply in the Everglades. We cannot ignore these challenges and every Member of Congress has a responsibility to our constituents and future generations to support market-based solutions, investments, and innovations that could alleviate the effects of climate change and make our nation more resilient. Our goal with this resolution is to shift the debate from whether climate change is real toward the tangible efforts to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate its effects." “The preservation of the environment and our natural resources for future generations should be a priority for us all,” said Congressman Ryan Costello (PA-06), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “We should leverage conservative principles to develop innovative, economically viable ways to achieve this goal, including through clean energy technologies. I hope to see the Republican Climate Resolution gain momentum and be part of the solutions we advance this Congress.” The resolution calls for better environmental stewardship through “economically viable, and broadly supported private and public solutions to study and address the causes and effects of measured changes to our global and regional climates.” The text of the resolution can be found here. What They’re Saying: Mark Reynolds, Executive Director, Citizens' Climate Lobby “The risks of climate change are far too great to get bogged down in partisan politics. With this resolution, these 17 Republicans are saying that business-as-usual is unacceptable when it comes to preserving a livable world for future generations. Hopefully, their leadership will help us turn the page and move forward on solutions to this critical problem.” Diane Randall, Executive Secretary, Friends Committee on National Legislation (The Quaker lobby in the public interest) “The leadership demonstrated by the 17 co-sponsors of this Republican climate resolution is such a hopeful step forward. This resolution shows that our moral obligation to address climate change and protect vulnerable communities transcends partisanship, and that there truly is political will to address this issue from both political parties in Congress. Now, more than ever, we pray that Congress will quickly pivot the dialogue towards meaningful climate solutions.” David Jenkins, President, Conservatives for Responsible Stewardship “The significance of this Republican climate resolution cannot be overstated. Real conservatives don’t deny reality, they face it. They don’t avoid problems, they tackle them head on. The resolution’s 17 initial cosponsors are stepping up on an issue that grows more urgent every day, and showing the prudent, fact-based—and yes, conservative—leadership our nation needs. We are grateful for this important first step.” Dan Misleh, Executive Director, Catholic Climate Covenant “The Catholic Climate Covenant applauds the moral courage of the 17 Republican legislators who have introduced this resolution. The Catholic Church recognizes the threat that climate change poses to our common home and to human life and dignity – especially of the poor and vulnerable, and of those in future generations. We are heartened that Congress is responding to Pope Francis’s call in his address to Congress and in Laudato Si to “enter into dialogue with all people about our common home” (Laudato Si’, no. 3). We encourage House members take the next step of joining the bipartisan House Climate Solutions Caucus.” The Niskanen Center “The sponsors of the Republican Climate Resolution understand that there is nothing conservative about ignoring the enormous risks of climate change. As conservatives, we believe the government exists to protect property rights and lives. It is clear that climate change will put both at risk for our kids and future generations. It is also clear that we have the means to significantly reduce those risks and leave a prosperous and clean future for posterity. The Niskanen Center applauds these Republicans who are looking to take positive steps forward finding practical and market-based solutions for climate change.” Ken Kimmell, President, Union of Concerned Scientists “I’m heartened to see Republican House members introduce a resolution committing Congress to address climate change and base its policy decisions on science and quantifiable facts. While the resolution doesn’t explicitly make the link to fossil fuel emissions, it shows that these Republican lawmakers are not in a state of denial about this key issue. The U.S. is seeing more extreme weather due to climate change, including flooding, droughts and wildfires, which cost taxpayers billions of dollars in damages. There’s strength in numbers, and I hope that this sizable group of responsible leaders will have an impact on votes in Congress.” Francesco "Frank" Femia and Caitlin Werrell, Co-Founders and Presidents, The Center for Climate and Security “This resolution demonstrates that the security risks of climate change are a reality that partisanship cannot continue to obscure. The Department of Defense and intelligence community have recognized this issue across both Republican and Democratic Administrations, and it's heartening to see Republican policy-makers from all parts of the country acting on that.” Mindy Lubber, President, Ceres (A nonprofit mobilizing business and investor leadership for a sustainable global economy) “Today’s announcement sends a loud and clear message that addressing climate change need not be a partisan issue. We applaud all lawmakers - no matter their party affiliation - who recognize the urgency of tackling climate change and the enormous economic opportunities of accelerating clean energy in all parts of the United States. The cosponsors of this resolution have shown bold leadership, and we look forward to working with them to craft bipartisan climate solutions that Americans want and expect from Washington.” Lynn Scarlett, Managing Director of Public Policy, The Nature Conservancy “As a science-driven organization, The Nature Conservancy strongly supports actions to address climate change. We appreciate the leadership of Reps. Stefanik, Curbelo, and Costello and their fellow members of Congress in recognizing the consequences of a changing climate and calling for solutions to this challenge.” The Rev. Mitch Hescox, President/CEO, The Evangelical Environmental Network (EEN) "We are proud of the courageous leadership of Rep. Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-6), and the 14 other Republican co-sponsors of this House Resolution affirming that climate change is a serious problem that must be addressed in order for us to be "good stewards of our environment ...". We heartily concur and stand ready to support efforts to do so”. Heather Reams, Managing Director, Citizens for Responsible Energy Solutions “Addressing climate change through clean energy solutions is smart policy and smart politics. Time and again, CRES polling shows that voters overwhelming support lawmakers who prioritize clean energy to advance the economy, create good paying jobs, promote energy independence, and protect the environment.” Admiral Frank "Skip" Bowman, U.S. Navy (ret), Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security, Former Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program: “I support this Republican Climate Resolution. Putting aside arguments of cause and effect, there are measured and measurable data and global events that must be considered and accounted for in our defense planning.” Rear Admiral David W. Titley, U.S. Navy (ret), Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security, Former Oceanographer of the Navy: "I'm very excited to see the Republican Climate Change Resolution introduced to the Congress. Our nation's long-term security is critically dependent on moving away from fossil-based fuels to lessen the worst risks of climate change. This change will not happen without support and leadership from the Congress, in partnership with the Administration. The Republican Climate Change Resolution is a good first step towards a serious bi-partisan policy discussion.” Commander David "Deke" Slayton, U.S. Navy (ret), Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security: "The Republican Climate Resolution ably and well serves as an imperative and call for action for our Nation. The resolution captures the issues of an observable, changing climate and the dynamic events we see unfolding in the worlds oceans today. These critical events demand U.S. Congressional and national executive leadership, now. " Sherri Goodman, Member of the Advisory Board, The Center for Climate and Security, Former Deputy Undersecretary of Defense: “The Republican Climate Resolution, whose signers represent a broad cross-section of America affected by climate change, from our coasts to rural agricultural areas, soundly recognizes that climate change is a “threat multiplier” that will adversely affect our national security interests as well as all Americans, where we live and work. The leaders of this effort should be commended for recognizing that we need both to study and address changes in our global and regional climates, and build more resilient communities for America’s future.” Vice Admiral Lee Gunn, U.S. Navy (ret): "I am enthusiastically adding my support for this Republican Climate Resolution (Ms. Stefanik, et al., 'Expressing the commitment of the House of Representatives to conservative environmental stewardship.'). The resolution acknowledges, among other things, the enormous national security importance of stewardship of the environment for America. Our armed services depend on predictable conditions at home for training, maintenance, drills and exercises, and bases, all components of building ready military forces. Also, the demands worldwide on not only our military but our economic, diplomatic and political power, demands on all elements of our national power, will inevitably be greater if the environment becomes less predictable. The Republican Climate Resolution supports not only traditional American values, but the practical imperative of maintaining our security at home and abroad." Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, U.S. Army (ret), former chief of staff to Secretary of State Colin Powell, Visiting Professor of Government and Public Policy, the College of William and Mary: "The Republican Climate Change Resolution being introduced in the Congress--the Gibson Resolution under new leadership--symbolizes my political party's recognition of climate change's impact on national security, an impact already being felt from the shipyards at Hampton Roads to the Ship Channel in Houston, Texas. Congresswoman Elise Stefanik and her 16 Republican co-sponsors are to be congratulated for their herculean efforts to bring my political party to a firm recognition of these risks." ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21) and Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) introduced the Social Workers Safety Act, bipartisan legislation to improve the on-the-job safety of social workers and related professionals. "Social workers perform valuable work in our communities, often helping women and children in need and who have been victims of violence," said Congresswoman Stefanik. "This bipartisan legislation would fund state efforts to bolster safety for social workers and provide support for those who look after some of our most vulnerable. I thank Congresswoman Sinema for her work on this issue and urge my colleagues to support this bill." “Social workers work every day to solve problems and assist the underserved in our communities," said Congresswoman Sinema. "Our bipartisan legislation makes it safer for Arizona social workers to continue their good work helping Arizona families.” "The National Association of Social Workers (NASW) is thrilled to see the introduction of the Social Worker Safety Act by fellow social worker, Kyrsten Sinema," said Angelo McClain, PhD, LCSW, Chief Officer of NASW. "We look forward to working with Reps. Sinema and Elise Stefanik to ensure passage of this important bipartisan legislation. Social workers often work on the front lines in communities, mental health centers, hospitals, child welfare agencies and other places, providing services to some of the most at-risk people in our society. This often places them at risk. Too many social workers have been seriously injured or even died while in the line of duty. This bill is a great step to help protect social workers as they serve a critical purpose in our society." This bill establishes a grant program to states, administered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), to improve the workplace safety of social workers and related professionals. Grants maybe used to purchase safety equipment such communications devices, locks, or alarms, provide safety training, or establish support networks for victims of violence in the work place. The bill also urges states to develop incident tracking to monitor and prevent future incidents of violence against social workers. ###
03.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor on her legislation, the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act. Click above for video of her remarks. What They’re Saying: SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher: “The Pell Grant program is the foundation of federal student aid, providing access to millions of students who might otherwise be unable to attend college. This important bill would increase flexibility in the use of Pell grants, helping thousands of SUNY students complete their degrees on time and at less cost.” Carole A. McCoy, President, Jefferson Community College: “The Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act will positively impact low income students’ ability to complete their degree on-time by allowing students to continue their studies year-round. Adult students who often desire to complete their degree and enter the workplace as quickly as possible will also greatly benefit from the ability to access Pell to take classes during the summer months. Additionally, an increase in the annual Pell maximum helps to make higher education more affordable for the neediest students and reduces the need for students to take on debt to achieve their educational goals.” Todd Moravec, Director of Student Financial Services, SUNY College at Plattsburgh: “Approximately one in three undergraduates at SUNY Plattsburgh has a Pell grant; this equates to roughly 2,000 students. By introducing the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik is providing these high-need students with a means to graduate faster and accumulate less student debt along the way. Students who elect to use this program would graduate from SUNY Plattsburgh with less loan debt, and have more resources to invest into our economy. Given that each year more than 7.0 million students across the country have Pell Grants, this could have a very positive impact on the future growth of our economy. ” Kristine Duffy, President, SUNY Adirondack: "I support the Flexible Pell Grant for the 21st Century Students Act introduced by Congresswoman Stefanik. The growing concerns expressed by many about rising costs is exasperated by extending time in college. Allowing our students to utilize PELL to continuously enroll through a summer session will support the Completion Agenda in a very tangible way and recognizes the need to support our under resourced students to achieve their goals. At SUNY Adirondack nearly 50% of our students receive a PELL grant and this legislation would remove one significant barrier to completion." ###
03.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) Cheri Bustos (D-IL-17) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26) introduced the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act -- commonsense legislation that expands flexibility for Pell Grants so that these important education resources are available for qualifying students all year round. “As the youngest Member of Congress and the Chair of the House Republican Policy Committee’s Millennial Task Force, I am pleased to introduce this important, bipartisan measure to help make college more affordable for North Country families,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This legislation is a direct result of concerns that were raised from my Higher Education roundtables throughout the district, and from Carole McCoy, President of Jefferson Community College. Right now, Pell Grants are only available for qualifying students during the fall and spring semesters. By expanding the eligibility window to include summer classes and increasing the possible maximum Pell Grant award by 50 percent, we can make sure that low and middle income families have added flexibility to achieve a college degree. As the first member of my immediate family to graduate from college, making higher education more affordable and more accessible is a top priority of mine and I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense legislation.” “As the mother of three boys, I know how important quality and affordable education is to getting a good-paying job and building a better life for hardworking Illinoisans in our region,” Congresswoman Bustos said. “After visiting each of the seven community colleges in our Congressional District, I heard from students and administrators about the need for more flexibility for Pell Grant awards – that’s why over the past few years, I’ve been pushing strongly for this bipartisan and commonsense legislation. This bill would give students more options in choosing when to take classes and would enable them to save money by entering the workforce faster. The colleges and universities in our region offer a pathway to success to so many Illinois students, so I’ll continue to do everything I can to help make higher education affordable and accessible for all.” “We need to ensure students who wish to complete a postsecondary education can do so as quickly and affordably as possible,” said Congressman Curbelo. “This bipartisan bill would help many South Florida students graduate faster and at a lower cost by providing them the flexibility to draw Pell Grant funds at a faster pace to pay for additional courses.” Student demographics have changed dramatically in recent decades. Whereas the majority of students used to enroll in a four-year, full-time program fresh out of high school, an increasing number of students – “contemporary students” – are older, have a family, and work full- or part-time jobs. These students are looking to quickly and affordably earn a degree that will help them compete and succeed in the workforce. Unfortunately, outdated higher education programs do not meet the needs of contemporary students. For example, while the Pell Grant provides support for more than one-third of all undergraduate students, the program fails to adequately support those who want to complete their studies more quickly by taking additional courses beyond the traditional academic year. Instead, students who receive Pell Grants are bound to a rigid system based on a six-year, two-semester timeline – discouraging many students from pursing higher education altogether. To modernize the Pell Grant program for all students, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Cheri Bustos (D-IL-17) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26) have introduced the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act. This bipartisan legislation will help students complete a postsecondary education more quickly and at a lower cost. ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – During National School Breakfast Week, Congresswomen Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) introduced the Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act, a bipartisan bill to expand access to nutritious meals for young children. The bill improves the existing Child and Adult Care Food Program by better supporting families who rely on full-day child care and reducing paperwork for providers. “Too many hardworking families struggle with food insecurity and with access to high-quality, affordable child care,” said Congresswoman Bonamici, the Vice Ranking Member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee. “The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act will help more families access child care providers who offer nutritious foods, which are essential to children’s healthy development and long-term success. I am glad to partner with Congresswoman Stefanik to expand a program that helps provide nutrition to millions of young children every day.” “By expanding access to nutritious food, our nation’s children can live happier, healthier lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik, a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee. “Our government must do more to ensure all children have access to nutritious food. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act is a bipartisan, commonsense measure to increase access and I am proud to work with Congresswoman Bonamici on this important bill.” The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act makes changes to the existing Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP), which reimburses child care providers, Head Start programs, homeless shelters, and afterschool programs that serve nutritious meals to eligible children and adults. Each day, more than three million children and 100,000 adults receive meals through the program. Since the mid-1990s, the CACFP program has seen an ongoing decrease in the number of family day care homes that participate. This drop-off in participation jeopardizes access to nutritious meals for children and families in many communities. At the same time, the program allows only two meals each day, even though many working families rely on child care for eight or more hours. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act aims to increase participation by reducing paperwork, streamlining eligibility requirements, and promoting clearer guidelines for providers. The bill also authorizes reimbursements for a third meal in a day. Providers will be able to be reimbursed for offering nutritious late-afternoon meals to children who are in care for more than eight hours. By streamlining compliance measures and adding a third meal, more children will gain access to the nutritious meals. The result will be better, healthier outcomes for children. You can read a summary of the Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act here, and the text of the bill here. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act is supported by the Food Research and Action Center (FRAC); American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME); National Women’s Law Center; National Association for Family Child Care (NAFCC); ZERO TO THREE; Early Care and Education Consortium; RESULTS: The Power to End Poverty; Common Sense Kids Act; Child Care Aware of America; National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC); National CACFP Forum; Child Care Food Program Roundtable; and Service Employees International Union (SEIU). ###
03.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce passed three initiatives she cosponsored to help expand health care coverage, lower costs, and promote a healthy workforce. “These important initiatives will help businesses and employees access affordable health care and promote the overall health of families across our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Any replacement for the Affordable Care Act should include reforms that will help lower costs for families and businesses in our district, protect coverage for those on their parents plan and those with preexisting conditions, help job creators, as well as protect the needs of rural communities like the North Country. The measures passed out of our Committee today are commonsense initiatives that will help North Country families and businesses and I look forward to helping them pass through the full House.” The bills passed out of Committee today include: The Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 1101). Introduced by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI), chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, this bill would empower small businesses to band together though association health plans (AHPs) to negotiate for lower health insurance costs on behalf of their employees. The Self-Insurance Protection Act (H.R. 1304). Introduced by Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN), this bill would help ensure robust access to stop-loss insurance by preventing any administration from regulating it as traditional health insurance coverage. As a result, the bill would protect the ability of employers to self-insure, providing greater access to affordable, flexible health care plans for their workers. The Preserving Employee Wellness Programs Act (H.R. 1313). The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has taken actions in recent years that have undermined popular employee wellness programs. This bill, introduced by Chairwoman Foxx, would provide employers the legal certainty they need to offer employee wellness plans, helping to promote a healthy workforce and lower health care costs. ###
03.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, released the following statement on the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile defense system to South Korea: “In my recent Congressional Delegation visit to Japan and the Republic of Korea, my colleagues and I on the House Intelligence Committee saw first-hand the threat that North Korea poses to our national security and to our allies. I believe deployment of the THAAD missile defense system is the right step in response to the recent missile launches by North Korea and will help build on our alliances in the region. I look forward to working from my positions on the House Intelligence Committee and the House Armed Services Committee to strengthen our national security and foster strong relationships with our allies throughout the region and the world.” ###
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Invasive Species Caucus, re-introduced two pieces of legislation to help combat and raise awareness about the threat invasive species pose to our ecosystems. “National Invasive Species Awareness Week is an important time to highlight the threats these invasives impose, and to renew our efforts to protect our natural ecosystems,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our environment is our lifeblood in the North Country and I am committed to preserving it for future generations. These important pieces of legislation will help raise awareness about the threats these invasive species play in our natural ecosystems and will help combat these predators. This is an issue that must be addressed at the local, state and federal level, and I am proud to lead the effort in Congress.” An estimated 50,000 non-native invasive animal and plant species have been introduced to the United States, costing more than $100 billion annually. Additionally, every state and U.S. territory has at least some form of invasive plant or animal tremendously impacting the natural biodiversity of our homes. Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced the Stamp Out Invasive Species Act which would direct USPS to issue a “Combating Invasive Species Semipostal Stamp.” Net proceeds from the sale of this stamp would be directed to the United States Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior for programs that work to combat invasive species. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced H. Res. ___ -- a resolution expressing the commitment of the House of Representatives to work to combat the nationwide problem of invasive species threatening native ecosystems. What They’re Saying: Fred Monroe, Executive Director of the Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board: “The Review Board applauds Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership in introducing a bill today expressing the commitment of the U.S. House of Representatives to work constructively to combat invasive species and the very serious threat they pose to the environment and economy of the nation and the Adirondack region. Her companion bill to create a semipostal stamp to benefit programs to fight invasive species will help meet the urgent need of volunteers, not-for-profits and local governments for funding to preempt and prevent the introduction and spread of invasives.” Lee Willbanks, Upper St. Lawrence Riverkeeper & Executive Director Save The River: "The St. Lawrence River, gateway to the Great Lakes, has long been negatively impacted by the unrelenting assault of aquatic invasive species and our watershed now faces unprecedented threats from terrestrial invasives. We, as a community dependent on our water and upland areas for tourism, hunting, fishing and recreation, have appreciated Congresswoman Stefanik's efforts, from her bi-national invasive species roundtable, to her efforts to prevent the rollback of ballast water regulations, to these two pieces of legislation one to provide additional funding and the other to commit Congress to the fight against further introductions of invasive species." Brendan Quirion, Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program Coordinator: “In the Adirondacks, local recreation and tourism based economies are reliant upon clean water and a healthy environment. Mitigating the impacts of invasive species is vitally important in sustaining this landscape into the future for both nature and people. The Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program appreciates Congresswoman Stefanik’s efforts to address the threats that invasive species pose to our region's economy and ecological heritage.” ###
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Invasive Species Caucus, re-introduced two pieces of legislation to help combat and raise awareness about the threat invasive species pose to our ecosystems. “National Invasive Species Awareness Week is an important time to highlight the threats these invasives impose, and to renew our efforts to protect our natural ecosystems,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our environment is our lifeblood in the North Country and I am committed to preserving it for future generations. These important pieces of legislation will help raise awareness about the threats these invasive species play in our natural ecosystems and will help combat these predators. This is an issue that must be addressed at the local, state and federal level, and I am proud to lead the effort in Congress.” An estimated 50,000 non-native invasive animal and plant species have been introduced to the United States, costing more than $100 billion annually. Additionally, every state and U.S. territory has at least some form of invasive plant or animal tremendously impacting the natural biodiversity of our homes. Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced the Stamp Out Invasive Species Act which would direct USPS to issue a “Combating Invasive Species Semipostal Stamp.” Net proceeds from the sale of this stamp would be directed to the United States Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior for programs that work to combat invasive species. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced H. Res. ___ -- a resolution expressing the commitment of the House of Representatives to work to combat the nationwide problem of invasive species threatening native ecosystems. What They’re Saying: Fred Monroe, Executive Director of the Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board: “The Review Board applauds Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership in introducing a bill today expressing the commitment of the U.S. House of Representatives to work constructively to combat invasive species and the very serious threat they pose to the environment and economy of the nation and the Adirondack region. Her companion bill to create a semipostal stamp to benefit programs to fight invasive species will help meet the urgent need of volunteers, not-for-profits and local governments for funding to preempt and prevent the introduction and spread of invasives.” Lee Willbanks, Upper St. Lawrence Riverkeeper & Executive Director Save The River: "The St. Lawrence River, gateway to the Great Lakes, has long been negatively impacted by the unrelenting assault of aquatic invasive species and our watershed now faces unprecedented threats from terrestrial invasives. We, as a community dependent on our water and upland areas for tourism, hunting, fishing and recreation, have appreciated Congresswoman Stefanik's efforts, from her bi-national invasive species roundtable, to her efforts to prevent the rollback of ballast water regulations, to these two pieces of legislation one to provide additional funding and the other to commit Congress to the fight against further introductions of invasive species." Brendan Quirion, Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program Coordinator: “In the Adirondacks, local recreation and tourism based economies are reliant upon clean water and a healthy environment. Mitigating the impacts of invasive species is vitally important in sustaining this landscape into the future for both nature and people. The Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program appreciates Congresswoman Stefanik’s efforts to address the threats that invasive species pose to our region's economy and ecological heritage.” ###
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, during National Invasive Species Awareness Week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she will serve as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Invasive Species Caucus with Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA-05) in the 115th Congress. “I thank Co-Chairman Thompson and my colleagues on the caucus for this opportunity,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “New York is sadly the epicenter of invasive species, and we must work together at the federal, state and local levels to combat these ecological predators. In Congress, I look forward to reintroducing my legislation aimed at creating awareness and combating invasive species, and look forward to working with my colleagues in this caucus on solutions to protect our ecological treasures.” ###
03.01.2017	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on Governor Andrew Cuomo’s announcement of over $30 million in new broadband grants for the North Country: “Increasing access to broadband is a key economic priority for our region and I applaud this grant announcement from Governor Cuomo,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I will continue to work in Congress to develop our broadband capabilities so that we can increase commerce and grow opportunities for families across our district.” Congresswoman Stefanik provided a letter of support for the $5,996,010 grant award to Mohawk Networks LLC. Additionally, she recently signed a letter to President Trump, urging him to include investments in rural broadband connectivity in his forthcoming infrastructure proposal. ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Tonight, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight the President laid out his agenda for Congress and for the American people, and I look forward to working with his Administration and my colleagues in the House on some of the most pressing issues facing our country, and facing families across our district. “My top priority in Congress is growing our economy and helping create good paying jobs for North Country families, which is why I am pleased that we are working now to pave the way for comprehensive tax and regulatory reform. Businesses across our district tell me all the time about the need to remove the burdens Washington imposes on them so that they can grow, and I look forward to continuing to work on these top priority items. “We also must create a 21st century healthcare system that lowers costs for families and businesses in our district. Concerns with the Affordable Care Act are some of the most frequently raised issues I hear about in my stops and meetings with constituents across the district, and it’s time to replace this law with commonsense reforms to increase access to affordable care and lower costs. “As the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I will be working with my colleagues to reverse the military sequester and invest in our readiness capabilities so that we can tackle threats facing our nation across the globe. “Additionally, I will work with the Administration this year on many of my priority items for our district, including expanding access to broadband, pursuing policies that help North Country farmers, and reforming our VA system to help ensure our heroes get the care they need and deserve. “I was pleased to be joined by Shaun Gilliland, Town Supervisor of Willsboro, as my guest in the Chamber for tonight’s address. I thank President Trump for delivering his remarks to a joint session of Congress and I look forward to working my hardest on bipartisan solutions that will help families across our district.” ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, was awarded the Distinguished Civilian Service Award by the Honorable Robert M. Speer, Acting Secretary of the United States Army. “I thank Acting Secretary Speer for this tremendous honor,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the proud representative of Fort Drum, I am grateful for the opportunity to support our men and women in uniform and will continue to work in Congress on policies that strengthen our defense and achieve our national security goals.” The Distinguished Civilian Service Award is the highest recognition that the Department of Defense can give. It is presented to a small number of civilian employees whose careers reflect exceptional devotion to duty and significant contributions of broad scope in policy, scientific, technical or administrative fields that increase effectiveness and efficiency. ###
02.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Intelligence Committee, returned from a Congressional Delegation trip to Japan and the Republic of Korea required for new Members of the Committee. “This trip was an important opportunity for new Members of the House Intelligence Committee to highlight the importance of working with our allies in the region and to continue to build on our intelligence sharing capabilities,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The House Intelligence Committee plays an important role in keeping our nation safe, and I was pleased to have the chance to visit with General Vincent Brooks, United States Forces Korea to learn more about the serious threats facing us. “During our trip, I also had the chance to meet and speak with a defector from North Korea who gave a first-hand account about what life is like in this rogue nation. I am grateful for the many opportunities to meet and thank the men and women in uniform who are downrange, for their service and sacrifice, including many from New York and who had previously been stationed at Fort Drum. “I thank Chairman Nunes for his leadership on this Congressional Delegation visit and look forward to working with my colleagues on this Committee throughout this term to address the many challenges facing our national security.” ###
02.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 1101 -- the Small Business Health Fairness Act. This legislation would empower small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide their employees greater access to affordable health care. “Whenever I travel throughout the district, constituents and businesses regular tell me about the problems they are having due to high costs due to the Affordable Care Act,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As we work to repeal and replace this broken law, we must enact reforms that will lower costs and help our businesses thrive. This commonsense healthcare fix would allow small businesses to band together and give them the same advantages larger businesses have when purchasing healthcare. This will help expand access as well as lower costs for families and businesses – a win-win for the North Country.” BACKGROUND: Due to their size and economies of scale, large businesses and labor organizations have the ability to negotiate on behalf of employees for high-quality health care at more affordable costs. By offering a qualified group health plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), these large employers and labor organizations are also exempt from myriad state rules and regulations on health insurance. Small businesses, however, do not have the same bargaining power as larger businesses. Small businesses are also unable to band together to increase their bargaining power in the health insurance marketplace. By allowing small businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs), small businesses can have greater ability to negotiate for lower health care costs for their employees. The Small Business Health Fairness Act would empower small businesses to join together through AHPs to offer health insurance for their employees at a lower cost. Through these reforms, H.R. 1101 will: Increase small businesses’ bargaining power with insurance providers and put them on a more level playing field with larger companies and unions. Expand affordable coverage for working families who want to purchase health insurance through their employer. Lower administrative costs for small businesses who face limited resources and want to provide health insurance to their employees. For a copy of H.R. 1101, click here. To read a fact sheet, click here.
02.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 1121 -- the Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act of 2017. This legislation aims to reaffirm guaranteed health care access, ensure that enrollees cannot have benefits excluded from a plan due to a pre-existing condition, and that patients will not pay more based on their health care status. “I have said all along that we must keep the parts of the Affordable Care Act that are working as we fix our broken healthcare system, and this legislation to protect those with pre-existing conditions is a critical component of our health reform package,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “A 21st century healthcare system protects those who need care, and I am pleased to support this commonsense legislation as we work to build a healthcare system that increases access and lowers costs for families and businesses across our district.” Click here for text of H.R. 1121, the Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act of 2017. ###
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a bipartisan group of her House colleagues have sent a letter to President Donald J. Trump asking him to include critical funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in his FY2019 Budget Request. Rep. Stefanik and the lawmakers wrote: We write to express our strong support for efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes. Specifically, we respectfully request that you include $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. The Great Lakes are truly a national treasure. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world, holding roughly 18 percent of the world's fresh water supply and 90 percent of the United States' fresh water supply. The Lakes are also an economic driver that supports jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism for millions of people across the country. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes, which the GLRI is helping to correct. Since the initiative was launched in 2010, GLRI funds have been used to support over 3,000 restoration projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitat, clean up environmentally-impaired Areas of Concern, fight invasive species, and prevent beach closings. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is showing real and measurable results, but there is still a great deal of work to do. The Great Lakes Basin is vulnerable to various pollutants and invasive species, which threaten the health of the Great Lakes. For example, in 2014 a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without home water service for three days. While the GLRI has prioritized monitoring efforts, which help drinking water treatment plant operators and beach managers minimize health impacts associated with these toxic algal blooms, more must be done to better understand and prevent these algal blooms in the future. The federal government commits significant resources each year to address the challenges the Great Lakes face. In particular, GLRI resources have supplemented agency budgets to fund coordinated efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes ecosystem, and we must ensure that this important work continues. To that end, we urge you to include $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you and your Administration on this matter. Click here for a digital copy of their letter. ###
02.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Chair of the House Republican Policy Committee’s Millennial Task Force, released a report of her committee’s findings during the 114th Congress titled, “Millennials & the GOP: Rebuilding Trust with an Untapped Electorate.” “The goal of the Millennial Task Force is to inform and develop smart strategies to address the challenges facing the generation of Americans born between the years 1980-2000, known as millennials,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a millennial, I am honored to serve as Chair of this Task Force as we develop 21st Century solutions to issues facing this pivotal generation.” “The success of this country depends upon investing in younger generations now so that they can contribute to our future. Our Task Force spent the past Congress listening to expert witnesses, and most importantly, to millennials. Millennials have a unique perspective that can help craft a vision for our nation and a framework for how we can construct an empowerment economy. I believe millennials are an optimistic generation. They can teach us to once again be a leading voice in the world.” Congresswoman Stefanik and the Millennial Task Force held four hearings over the past Congress in Washington, D.C. and in New York’s 21st district. Click here for a digital copy of the Millennial Task Force Report. ###
02.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) supported passage of H.R. 512 – the WINGMAN Act – legislation she cosponsored to streamline the benefits claims process between the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the constituent advocates processing those claims on behalf of veterans and their families. “Our district is home to more veterans than any Congressional District in New York State, and I am proud to help pass this important, bipartisan legislation to ensure we get our heroes the benefits they deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This legislation will help my office serve our brave veterans by expediting the VA claims process and help them get their earned benefits in a timely manner.” The WINGMAN Act will eliminate the burdensome step of having to use the VA as a middle-man for certified congressional staff access to files they already have permission to possess. Under WINGMAN, constituent advocates would be able to access the status of a pending claim, medical records, compensation and pension records, rating decisions, statements of cases, supplementary statements of cases, notices of disagreement, and Form-9 files within a reasonable amount of time, without having to go through a middle-man. ###
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 387 -- The Email Privacy Act – yesterday with her support. This bipartisan legislation will modernize the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) to protect Americans’ privacy and provide law enforcement with tools needed for its investigations. “This important legislation modernizes our laws to keep pace with 21st century technologies,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Technology has changed dramatically since the ECPA was written in 1986 and we must keep our privacy laws current to protect Americans’ Constitutional rights while ensuring our law enforcement has the tools they need to keep the public safe.” Summary of H.R. 387: The Email Privacy Act modernizes ECPA to protect Americans’ privacy and provide law enforcement with tools needed for its investigations. It currently has over 300 cosponsors. Below are key provisions of the bill. Warrant requirement: The bill creates a uniform warrant standard for law enforcement to obtain the content of communications in criminal investigations. ECPA warrants will continue to be executed with the provider since, as with any other third-party custodian, the information is stored with them. It allows the provider to notify its customers of receipt of a warrant, court order, or subpoena, unless the provider is court ordered to delay such notification. Remote Computing Services: The bill maintains current law that delineates which remote computing service providers – or cloud providers – are subject to the warrant requirement for content in a criminal investigation. ECPA has traditionally imposed heightened legal process and procedures to obtain information for which the customer has a reasonable expectation of privacy, namely emails, texts, photos, videos, and documents stored in the cloud. Allows Law Enforcement to Access Public Information: ECPA currently makes no distinction between content disclosed to the public, like an advertisement on a website, versus content disclosed only to one or a handful of persons, like an email or text message. The result is that law enforcement would be required to obtain a warrant even for publicly-disclosed content. The bill clarifies that commercial public content can be obtained with a process other than a warrant. Maintains Congress’s investigative power: The bill clarifies that nothing in the law limits Congress’s subpoena authority to obtain information from third parties in furtherance of congressional oversight. ###
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and a bipartisan coalition of 71 members of the House of Representatives have sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to include investments in rural broadband connectivity in his forthcoming infrastructure proposal. Congresswoman Stefanik is a Member of the Bipartisan Rural Broadband Caucus. The letter reads in part, “In the 21st Century, high speed internet access is no longer a luxury amenity, but rather an essential service for homes and businesses in this interconnected world… Unfortunately, rural Americans in our districts lack sufficient broadband infrastructure to take advantage of this explosion of technology and economic possibility…. As you consider the parameters of your infrastructure proposal to Congress, we write to urge you to include investments that will bring the benefits of broadband connectivity to rural America.” ###
02.02.2017	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) reintroduced the Establishing Digital Interactive Transparency (EDIT) Act. The EDIT Act will instruct the Library of Congress to open up the legislative process by implementing a track changes style system for Congress.gov. “Americans want accountability and transparency out of their lawmakers in Washington, and as lawmakers, we must work to give our constituents more access to the work they send us here to do,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “One of my most important commitments to families across the North Country is to be accessible and transparent. That is why I have introduced the EDIT Act -- commonsense legislation that will allow the American public to see at what stage in the process changes are made to legislation they are following. “We live in an age of limitless information and technology that is never further than your pocket -- we should use these tools to provide the American people more open, transparent access to our work in Congress, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill,” added Stefanik. "The EDIT Act is a crucial component to achieving a transparent and complete view of the legislative process," said Hudson Hollister, Executive Director of the Data Coalition. "Once open data formats are adopted for bills and other legislative materials, citizens will be able to electronically track the consequences of every congressional proposal. Open-data bills and regulations will bring greater transparency for citizens and journalists and more efficient work practices for Congress." This legislation instructs the Librarian of Congress to ensure that each version of a bill or resolution that is made available on Congress.gov is presented in a manner which permits the viewer to follow and track online, within the same document, any changes made from previous versions of the bill or resolution. Click here for text of the legislation. Original cosponsors of this legislation include Reps. Luke Messer (R-IN), Peter Welch (D-VT) and Paul Tonko (D-NY). ###
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has joined the Congressional Rural Broadband Caucus for the 115th Congress. The Rural Broadband Caucus is a bipartisan group of lawmakers working on solutions to expand broadband internet access. “In a 21st century economy, North Country businesses and families need access to broadband so we can compete around the globe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was proud to lead several initiatives last Congress to help expand this critical 21st Century infrastructure, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Congressional Rural Broadband Caucus to advance bipartisan solutions.” Last Congress, Rep. Stefanik led several initiatives to expand broadband access. Additionally, in May of 2016 and January of this year, she signed onto efforts requesting unused Connect America Funds remain in New York instead of being dispersed nationally. Recently, the FCC announced this funding would remain in New York to help rural communities expand broadband access. “Expanding broadband access to our rural areas is a critical economic priority for our region and I commend Congresswoman Stefanik for her work on this effort,” said William G. Farber, Chairman of the Hamilton County Board of Supervisors. “By expanding access to broadband, our businesses will be able to better compete. I look forward to continuing to work with Congresswoman Stefanik to develop our region.” ###
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has joined the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. The mission of the Climate Solutions Caucus is to educate members on economically-viable options to reduce climate risk and to explore bipartisan policy options that address the impacts, causes, and challenges of our changing climate. “The Climate Solutions Caucus is a bipartisan group of lawmakers doing critical work to address this issue and I am pleased to join,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “New York’s 21st district is the proud home of the Adirondacks and we understand that protecting our environment plays an important role in promoting economic growth and opportunity.” Congresswoman Stefanik joins Reps. Don Beyer (VA-08), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Mia Love (UT-04), and Brian Mast (FL-18) as the newest Members of the Caucus. “Our bipartisan caucus is starting off the new Congress by expanding our membership and showing our colleagues that Republicans and Democrats can put partisan politics aside for work on climate change,” said Co-Chairman, Congressman Ted Deutch. “These new members represent diverse regions of the country, from upstate New York to the Mountain West, and they have shown their readiness to find bipartisan solutions for this crisis.” “We have a lot of work to do on this issue, and communities like mine in South Florida are counting on us to come together and have productive discussions about what we can do to mitigate the effects of climate change and make our nation more resilient,” said Co-Chairman, Congressman Curbelo. “The caucus has such a diverse group of members, and we’ve gained great momentum only a few weeks into the 115th Congress. I’d like to thank Representatives Love, Stefanik, Fitzpatrick, Mast and Beyer for joining our group and I’m looking forward to working with them and the rest of the caucus on solutions that will protect our environment and unleash a new era of American innovation.” Below is the full membership list of the Climate Solutions Caucus in the 115th Congress as of January 23, 2017: Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. John Delaney (D-MD) Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA) Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL) ###
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has introduced two critical pieces of legislation to support military families: H.R. 279, the Military Family Stability Act and H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act. “As the home of Fort Drum and the Kesselring Navy nuclear site, our district knows firsthand the critical role military families play in supporting our troops and providing for our national defense,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Military families make great sacrifices when relocating and transitioning to new schools, jobs and communities, and we must do all we can to help ease their burden. Military families serve too, and I am proud to introduce these commonsense measures to support these patriots.” The measures Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced include H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act. This bill would permit the spouse of a servicemember to use the same residence as the servicemember for purposes of taxation and voting, regardless of the date on which the marriage of the spouse and the servicemember occurred. This bill greatly eases some of the stressors on our military families by protecting our military spouses’ home-of-record and allowing them to maintain the same residency as their servicemember spouse. She also has introduced H.R. 279, The Military Family Stability Act. This bill will provide military families with the flexibility they need to make a successful transition to their new jobs, schools and communities. The Military Family Stability Act is intended to improve the process for military families when they receive orders for a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) report date. Specifically, after a servicemember receives their orders, this bill: Allows military spouses and family to continue to work up to six months in their current job, or, if they choose, move up to six months early to their next location in order to secure or begin new full-time employment. Allows military spouses to extend education they may be pursuing, or allow military children to smoothly transition within, prior to, or past their school semesters. This option would be available to servicemembers for up to three times during their military career. Servicemembers must have at least 24 months left to serve to exercise this option. The Military Family Stability Act will be applied across the DoD to ensure parity among the service branches. In addition to supporting military families, the MFSA will assist in helping to retain highly talented officers and enlisted servicemembers, and decrease long-term Permanent Change of Station cost by improving the efficiency with which the military manages its PCS process. This legislation was previously introduced by Congresswoman Chris Gibson in the 114th Congress and was supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Officers Association of America, Veterans Support Foundation, Military Child Education Coalition, Blue Star Families and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. ###
01.20.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) attended the inauguration of the 45th President of the United States, President Donald Trump, and released the following statement afterwards: “The Presidential Inauguration is a uniquely American experience that celebrates the peaceful transition of power from one President to the next. Today I was honored to host over 150 constituents from across the North Country who made the trip to Washington, D.C., to take part in this historic occasion. “Today’s ceremony is a reminder that, despite the challenges we face, we are blessed to live in this great and unique nation, and as elected lawmakers, we must strive to work together to tackle these problems and to preserve the American Dream for future generations. “I will continue to work on bipartisan solutions to the problems facing our nation and facing families across our district. I wish all the best to President Trump and Vice President Pence and look forward to working with them to deliver great things for our country.” ###
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was appointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence for the 115th Congress. “Our world is growing increasingly dangerous and the work of our Intelligence Committee is vital to protecting our nation against these threats,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am honored to be appointed to this position and look forward to working with my colleagues on the Committee to protect our national security.” “I welcome Congresswoman Stefanik to the House Intelligence Committee,” said Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA-22). “Already possessing a long record of accomplishments so early in her career, including extensive work on national security issues with the House Armed Services Committee, she will make a fine addition to the committee and I look forward to working with her closely.” ###
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has been selected to Chair the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities in the 115th Congress. The Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee is responsible for overseeing counter-terrorism programs and initiatives and counter proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Additionally, this subcommittee oversees U.S. Special Operations Forces, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), information technology and programs, force protection policy and oversight, and related intelligence support. “I am honored to serve in this critical position with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As we begin to rebuild our military in the next Administration, we must prepare to defend our nation on a 21st Century Battlefield. We live in an increasingly dangerous world and this subcommittee has a pivotal role in ensuring the American people are protected against terrorism and modern threats. I look forward to leading this Subcommittee and thank my colleagues for this opportunity.” “Congresswoman Stefanik has been a real leader on our Committee in the need to address 21st Century threats to our defense, and I am pleased that she will be Chairing this pivotal Subcommittee,” said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13). “The Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee oversees a broad range of issues that are critical to our nation’s defense and I look forward to working closely with Congresswoman Stefanik this Congress.” ###
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has been selected as Co-Chair of the House Republican Tuesday Group, a policy caucus within the House Republican Conference. “I am honored to be selected by my Tuesday Group colleagues for this important opportunity,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Tuesday Group is comprised of Members who are willing to work across the aisle to advance policy solutions for their constituents, and I look forward to working on critical issues facing our nation in this important role.” “Representative Stefanik is an outstandingly talented and dedicated member of the Republican Conference,” said Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA-15), Co-Chair of the Tuesday Group. “As a millennial, Elise brings a fresh perspective to a number of issues. The Tuesday Group is fortunate to have her in a leadership role as one of our co-chairs.” ###
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Congressman Chris Collins (R-NY-27) have introduced the Family Farm Relief Act of 2017, legislation to move the H-2A Agricultural Visa program from the Department of Labor to the Department of Agriculture to better meet the unique labor needs of farmers and agricultural businesses. “Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy and I am pleased to introduce this important bill to address the labor shortages facing our farmers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “When I travel the district speaking with our farmers, I often hear about how unnecessary delays in worker visas lead to difficulty meeting production goals. This commonsense legislation simply puts the H-2A agricultural visa program in the hands of those who best understand the specific needs of our farms.” “The last thing our farmers need is for the federal government to make it harder for them to make ends meet,” said Congressman Chris Collins. “Access to a willing and available labor force is absolutely critical for Western New York’s agriculture community, particularly our dairy farmers. I am proud to join my colleague Congresswoman Stefanik in introducing this common-sense legislation to streamline and improve the H-2A visa program.” "Immigration reform that allows for both seasonal and year round farm labor has been a longtime priority for New York Farm Bureau. For too long, the federal H2A guest visa program has been cumbersome, prone to delays and too rigid to fit the needs of both farmers and their employees. We thank Congresswoman Stefanik for taking the lead on the The Family Farm Relief Act that will provide real reform and address a critical issue in New York's diverse agricultural community," said David Fisher, New York Farm Bureau President. The Family Farm Relief Act of 2017 takes practical measures such as allowing visa applicants to fill out H-2A applications on paper or online, requiring a user-friendly online system, and ending burdensome requirements on advertising and prevailing practice surveys. This legislation also allows farm cooperatives and other agricultural associations to apply for workers for their members, makes the program more workable for dairy and other livestock operations, and requires reporting to Congress if delays occur in the H-2A Visa application process. Click here for bill text. ###
01.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 26, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which passed the House last night. “When I visit businesses across the North Country, one of the top concerns I hear about is the negative effects burdensome regulations from Washington have on their ability to grow and create jobs,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The REINS Act pushes back against overregulation by federal bureaucrats and gives power back to the people by requiring that Congress vote on any major rule or regulation coming from the executive branch. This is a commonsense step for transparent and accountable government that will help grow our economy and create jobs for North Country families.” H.R. 26 – Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act The REINS Act would require that Congress vote on any major rule or regulation coming from the executive branch that is estimated by OMB to impact the economy by $100 million or more. Federal government regulations pose enormous burdens and exert a drag on the economy – one study finds that federal regulations have reduced the annual growth rate of the US gross domestic product (GDP) by 0.8 percent. That means if regulation had been held constant at levels observed in 1980, the US economy would have been about 25 percent larger than it actually was as of 2012. The pace and volume of federal regulations and rules is increasing – in 2016 alone, the Obama Administration broke all records in printing 97,110 pages, issuing 3,853 rules and regulations in the Federal Register. Under the REINS Act, Congress would have 70 legislative days to approve a major rule with an economic impact over $100 million (as certified by OMB) and send it to the President for signature, otherwise the rule would not take effect (with process exceptions for national emergencies). One important result of the REINS Act would be to increase Congress's accountability for the content of Federal legal requirements, fostering more deliberation before the Federal Government expands its reach into the lives of Americans through added regulation. ###
01.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was sworn in to her second term representing New York’s 21st District in the United States Congress. She issued the following statement: “I am honored to have the opportunity to continue fighting on behalf of our great district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Over the next two years, I look forward to working in Congress on bipartisan solutions that will help families across the North Country. This new Congress and Administration brings important new opportunities to get our economy growing, rebuild our national defense, and grow opportunities for all Americans. I look forward to working hard on your behalf and I thank you for the opportunity to serve.” ###
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the Administration’s announcement that Plan 2014 implementation will move forward: “Plan 2014 is critical to our local economic growth in addition to good environmental policy, and I applaud this important decision,” said Congresswoman Elise Stefanik. “Better regulating the water levels of the St. Lawrence will ensure that users — from boaters to commercial fisherman — can continue to enjoy the river. Lowering the impact of invasive species will ensure that outdoor recreationalists can enjoy the river for decades to come. Additionally, The Nature Conservancy estimates that Plan 2014 will result in an increase of $12 million in economic value for New York, and it has strong support from businesses and Chambers of Commerce across our region. “In the North Country, we are fortunate to be surrounded by many ecological treasures. Protecting these gems for future generations is a job I take very seriously. I thank Save the River and the entire river community for their important work on this issue.” “I cannot overstate the importance of today’s announcement. Enactment of Plan 2014 is the most significant environmental and economic advancement the St. Lawrence River has seen in over 50 years,” said Lee Willbanks, Upper St. Lawrence Riverkeeper and Executive Director of Save The River. “I, also, cannot thank Congresswoman Stefanik enough. A steadfast supporter of Plan 2014, the Congresswoman has remained the most important elected official to support the plan. This could not have been done without her involvement.” “Plan 2014 is the greatest opportunity in a lifetime to secure the future of one of our Great Lakes, and the governments of United States and Canada have wisely seized this opportunity to use nature to undo 50 years of damage to some of our most valuable natural treasures. Without costing taxpayers a cent, Plan 2014 promises millions in additional annual economic activity for Upstate New York,” said Stuart F. Gruskin, The Nature Conservancy’s Chief Conservation and External Affairs Officer in New York. ###
12.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 6431 -- the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016 – bipartisan legislation she co-introduced with Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH-02) that would solidify the preclearance agreement between the U.S. and Canada. Below are Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks as delivered on the House floor; for video, click here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6431, the Promoting Travel, Commerce and National Security Act. First I want to take a moment to thank my colleague, Congresswoman Kuster, for all of her efforts on this important bill. As you can see, the need for Preclearance and this bill stretches across party lines and across our great nation. In my district and communities in Northern New York, Canada is more than just a bordering nation – they are our neighbors, our friends, and our largest trading partner. Plattsburgh, a city in my district, has even branded itself as Montreal's “U.S. Suburb,” home to more than 100 U.S. subsidiaries of Canadian companies, with 15 percent of our area workforce working for a Canadian or border-related employer. That is why I helped lead the efforts to craft H.R. 6431, the Promoting Travel, Commerce and National Security Act— a necessary step to solidify the preclearance agreement between the U.S. and Canada, which was reached over a year ago. This significant, bipartisan legislation is great news for U.S.-Canadian relations. It maintains a positive working relationship with Border officials, especially in rural regions like ours in the North Country, and it allows for facility sharing along the border. This bill also expands U.S. Preclearance operations to help provide expedited screening for Amtrak passengers prior to traveling. This process will allow for an easier and accelerated trip while ensuring necessary protections for our national security. I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this vital legislation to maintain a secure Northern border and facilitate travel and commerce between the U.S. and Canada, and I urge the Senate to act quickly to send this measure to the President. Thank you and I yield back. "Congressional approval of the U.S.-Canada Preclearance Agreement was our top priority for action before the end of the year, and we cannot thank Congresswoman Stefanik enough for her determined and steady leadership," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "This agreement is an historic act of common sense and partnership between our two countries. When fully approved by Congress and the Canadian Parliament, it will set the stage for many practical arrangements at our northern border, allowing each country's border agencies to undertake their functions on the other side when that is the best way to keep things moving. This will include the preclearance of Amtrak passengers in Montreal, eliminating the need for long stoppages at the border, and it is expected to allow Canadian border officials to operate on the Massena side of the Seaway Bridge crossing, also allowing more efficient operations. And for the North Country's small crossings, it should eliminate future threats aimed at cost saving as now U.S. and Canadian border agents will be able to decide to operate together on one side of those crossings or the other, clearing traffic in both direction. We continue to work with Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, looking for final Senate action this month. And then we will join with our Canadian partners to seek Parliamentary OK early in the new year." Additional Information: The Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016 paves the way for expansion of preclearance facilities, operated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, at land, rail, marine, and air ports of departure in Canada. The United States currently operates preclearance facilities at 15 airports in six countries, including Canada. These facilities allow travelers to pass through CBP inspections prior to traveling, expediting their arrival in the United States, and protecting national security by preventing those who should not be traveling to the United States from doing so before they arrive. Under a new agreement, the United States will expand its preclearance operations in Canada, which will include rail preclearance facilities for the first time. This legislation ensures that the U.S. has the legal authority to hold U.S. officials accountable if they engage in wrongdoing while stationed in Canada – a necessary prerequisite to full implementation of this agreement. This legislation passed the House today unopposed by voice vote. ###
12.05.2016	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, has cosponsored H.R. 5956, the Youth Opioid Use Treatment Help (YOUTH) Act of 2016. The YOUTH Act would expand access to medication-assisted treatment for adolescents and young adults suffering from opioid dependence. “Heroin abuse touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Substance abuse at a young age can have especially devastating consequences. This important bill will help ensure that our federal government continues to work to give our youth access to the treatment they need. As a Member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I am committed to working to end the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic that affects far too many North Country families.” Legislative Specifics: The bill would help expand access to medication-assisted treatments by: 1. Reauthorizing and broadening eligibility for substance use treatment services for children, adolescents, and young adults under the Public Health Service Act; 2. Authorizing the creation of demonstration programs to expand access to medication-assisted treatment for adolescents and young adults with opioid use disorders, and appropriations of $5 million to fund those programs; 3. Directing the GAO to conduct a study on the existing federal programs addressing substance use among adolescents and young adults and any gaps in the available research on those subjects; and 4. Directing the Department of Health and Human Services to report to Congress on the effectiveness of the demonstration programs, as well as any unintended consequences of those programs, such as abuse or diversion. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Armed Services Committee, helped the House pass the final conference report to the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will pass both Chambers of Congress and be sent to the President. On top of the baseline defense budget, the NDAA also authorizes funding for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Europe, as well as Readiness Stabilization in order to prevent a readiness crisis. The FY17 NDAA provides a full 2.1 percent pay raise for our troops and prevents any increase to out-of-pocket healthcare costs for our current force or retirees. Additionally, the FY17 NDAA does not include any harmful changes to basic housing allowance, including for dual military families. For the second year in a row, Congresswoman Stefanik was selected to serve as a conferee on the bipartisan, bicameral NDAA Conference Committee. “I am proud of the bipartisan work done by my colleagues in both Chambers of Congress on this critical legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our most important job in Congress is to provide for our national defense, and this year’s NDAA takes important steps to strengthen our defense capabilities and give our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe. I am proud that the FY17 NDAA included initiatives that my office fought for to strengthen military readiness and Fort Drum, as well as giving our men and women in uniform a deserved pay raise.” Stefanik Fights Back Against Troop Reductions Congresswoman Stefanik is a proud original cosponsor of the POSTURE Act, which ends the misguided draw down of troops and was included in this bill. “As the Vice-Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, I am committed to ensuring we have a land forces end-strength to face the world’s challenges and protect our nation,” said Stefanik. “The language included in this legislation ensures the active duty Army does not fall below 480,000 personnel and will not be depleted as a result of this Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment.” Stefanik Provision Will Increase Military Readiness Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added a provision that will positively impact military readiness at installations like Ft. Drum by allowing for the procurement of equipment to expand the use of airspace around military installations. “I was proud to secure this important provision that will help installations like Wheeler-Sack Army Airfield – a state of the art airfield that facilitates the use of multiple aircraft,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Secures Next-Generation Multispectral Improved Camouflage Systems Congresswoman Stefanik successfully fought for a provision in the NDAA that significantly impacts military readiness by allowing for the Army to procure new next-generation multispectral improved camouflage systems. “These next-generation camouflage systems will help units like the 10th Mountain Division that train in cold and inclement weather,” said Stefanik. “We must equip our brave men and women who serve in harm’s way with the equipment to combat a wide spectrum of emerging foreign threats.” Stefanik Leads Fight Against 21st Century Threats Congresswoman Stefanik was able to include language into the NDAA that requires the Department of Defense to develop a strategy to combat the radicalization and recruitment of violent extremists online through social media and to develop a social media analytical capability. “The threats our nation faces on the 21st century battlefield continue to evolve and our nation’s defense capabilities must evolve too,” added Stefanik. “I am proud to lead the effort to combat the radicalization and recruitment of violent extremists online and thank my colleagues for their support for this critical provision.” Stefanik’s U.S./Israeli Security Cooperation Initiative Included Congresswoman Stefanik’s bipartisan legislation that would provide for the sharing of research and development costs between the United States and Israel to develop directed energy capabilities to detect and defeat ballistic missiles was added to the NDAA. “We live in an increasingly dangerous and unstable world and it is critical that we do all we can to protect our nation and our interests,” said Stefanik. “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and through greater cooperation we can more effectively combat threats facing our two nations. I am pleased that this important initiative was included in the NDAA that we passed out of the House.” For a detailed summary of the NDAA conference report, click here. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math) Caucus, announced that Abi Gustafson and Andrew Meseck of the Northern Adirondack Central School District have been named the winners for the 2016 NY-21 Congressional App Challenge. “I am excited to announce that Abi and Andrew’s winning entry will be showcased at the U.S. Capitol for visitors from around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The North Country is home to many gifted students and I thank all who participated in this year’s Congressional App Challenge.” Abi and Andrew designed, created, and showcased an app called “Train Rain”—an interactive children’s game that parents and educators can use to help teach children colors. Their winning app will be featured on the Congressional App Challenge website as well as be displayed in the U.S. Capitol building where it will be seen by visitors from around the world. You can view a video demonstration of their app here. ###
11.30.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass the Senate Amendment to the 21st Century Cures Act. This critical, bipartisan legislation is designed to help accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of promising new treatments and cures for patients with diseases ranging from Alzheimer’s to Lyme while maintaining our nation’s standing as the biomedical innovation capital of the world. “Whether it is a child caring for an elderly parent who is suffering, a spouse receiving disheartening news about the health of their loved one, or a parent tearfully listening to devastating news about their child's diagnosis, every single family in our district has faced health challenges,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This problem stems from the staggering reality that while there are over 10,000 known diseases, we only have cures and treatments for about 500 of them. This leaves those afflicted by diseases ranging from Alzheimer’s to Parkinson’s to cancer hoping for medical breakthroughs and cures that will improve their standards of living. “This critical legislation invests more in science and research, removes barriers that stand in the way of modern treatments, and advances personal medicine to ensure that patients can be treated based on their unique characteristics,” added Stefanik. “I am also pleased that this legislation includes a measure that Congressman Chris Gibson and I worked on called the Tick-Borne Disease Research Accountability and Transparency Act, in addition to a needed update to our nation’s mental health laws and treatment capabilities.” “Clarkson University applauds Congresswoman Stefanik’s advocacy of the 21st Century Cures Bill which brings acute attention to the critical need for biotechnology research and innovation to support cures, treatments and vaccinations for some of the most pressing health issues of our time,” said Anthony G. Collins, President of Clarkson University. “Clarkson and its research partners, including the Trudeau Institute in Saranac Lake, NY, are working diligently to safely accelerate the time between research discovery and getting cures into the marketplace to help the people who need these solutions." Summary: The legislation includes an updated 21st Century Cures Act, Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Reform Act, Increasing Choice, Access, and Quality in Health Care for Americans, and Family First Prevention Services Act of 2016. The bill provides $4.8 billion in discretionary funding for NIH, $1 billion for grants to states to fight Opioid abuse, and $500 million to FDA to speed up bringing drugs and devices to market. The legislation is fully offset on a year-by-year bases which include rescissions from the ACA public health and prevention fund, unused funds from territories for ACA exchanges, reductions in overpayments in Medicare/Medicaid, and sales from the strategic petroleum reserve. Specifically, the legislation includes: 21st Century Cures: 21st Century Cures is designed to help accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of promising new treatments and cures for patients and maintain our nation’s standing as the biomedical innovation capital of the world. There are 10,000 known diseases, but we only have cures and treatments for 500 of them. The bill would help patients suffering from those diseases by: Streamlining and improving the FDA’s review of life-saving drugs for patients Modernizing clinical trials and removing regulatory uncertainty for the development of new medical apps Supporting and investing in the next generation of Scientists The bill provides $4.8 billion over 10 years to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for: · The Precision Medicine Initiative · The Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies Initiative · Cancer research · Regenerative medicine using adult stem cells Additionally, the bill provides: $500 million to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) over 10 years to move drugs and medical devices to patients more quickly $1 billion over 2 years for grants to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities, such as improving prescription drug monitoring programs and implementing prevention Discretionary Funding & Offsets: The funding in this legislation is discretionary and, thus subject to annual appropriation. In addition, the dedicated funding in the bill is fully offset on a year-by-year basis, rather than spending now and saving later. Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Reform Act: The legislation, a similar form of which passed the House in July 2016, helps individuals and their families in mental health crisis, as well as addressing the needs of those Americans with a substance use disorder. The bill: Establishes an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use (Assistant Secretary) to head the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Creates a coordinating committee to evaluate federal programs related to Serious Mental Illness (SMI) and provide recommendations to better coordinate mental health services for people with SMI. The committee terminates after six years. Gives states additional flexibility to use Community Mental Health Services (CMHS) block grant funding to provide community mental health services for adults with SMI and children with Serious Emotional Disturbances (SED) Reauthorizes and makes technical updates to develop and implement programs to divert individuals with a mental illness from the criminal justice system to community-based services Reauthorizes and makes updates to grants for states to provide services to homeless individuals who are potentially suffering from serious mental illness Reauthorizes grants to institutions of higher education or accredited professional training programs to support the recruitment and education of mental health care providers Provides a Sense of Congress that clarification is needed regarding existing permitted uses and disclosures of health information under the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) by health care professionals to communicate with caregivers of adults with SMI to facilitate treatment Directs the Secretary to clarify circumstances when a health care provider or covered entity may use or disclose protected health information related to the treatment of an adult with a mental or substance use disorder ###
11.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 2817, the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act -- legislation intended to preserve historical and archaeological sites across New York’s 21st district and the entire country. “The North Country is fortunate to be home to hundreds of important historic sites that this legislation would help preserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will help preserve these historical treasures for future generations to enjoy. As the Representative of hundreds of sites included on the National Register of Historic Places, I am proud to support this important legislation.” The National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) is legislation intended to preserve historical and archaeological sites in the United States of America. The act created the National Register of Historic Places, the list of National Historic Landmarks, and the State Historic Preservation Offices. Many of these sites are in New York’s 21st District, driving tourism and ensuring the long term preservation of critically important historical sites throughout our country. New York’s 21st District includes hundreds of sites that are listed on the National Register of Historic Places, such as the Adirondack Forest Preserve, Fort Ticonderoga, Lake George Battlefield Park Historic District, and Sackets Harbor Battlefield. A more comprehensive list of sites in New York’s 21st District is attached. ###
11.17.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Mark Pocan (D-WI-02) introduced H.R. 6336 -- the bipartisan Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program (B-CROP) Act to increase internet connectivity in rural communities through a combination of grants and loans. This legislation is a companion bill to one introduced by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) earlier this fall. “In a 21st century economy, our businesses and families need access to broadband so we can compete around the globe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This important legislation would provide greater resources to build this infrastructure in the North Country and in rural areas across our nation. I am pleased to join Congressman Pocan to introduce this bipartisan legislation in the House, and I urge my colleagues to support this critical 21st century infrastructure project.” “Access to reliable, high-speed internet service is vital to communities across America especially to small businesses and students,” Rep. Mark Pocan said. “Yet, in rural areas, including parts of my district in Wisconsin, over a third of the population doesn’t have access to quality broadband. The Broadband Connections for Rural Opportunities Program (B-CROP) Act will increase resources to update and expand broadband infrastructure. I’m proud to work with Congresswoman Stefanik to help close the broadband gap so all communities can have a reliable connection.” Nationally, more than 55 million Americans lack access to advanced broadband speeds and an even greater number lack even basic connectivity. Broadband internet for rural communities serves as a crucial economic engine to generate widely shared prosperity. Therefore the push toward developing a 21st century infrastructure for America is quickly emerging as an initiative with bipartisan consensus. This legislation helps connect rural communities by: • Allowing for grants of up to 50 percent of a project’s cost, and up to 75 percent for remote, high-need areas, to be awarded in combination with the current loan funding available through USDA’s Rural Utilities Service (RUS). • Combining grants with loans, the bill helps enhance the economic feasibility of projects serving rural and tribal areas. • Providing highest priority to projects that serve areas that are currently unserved by high-speed broadband. • This legislation also increases the authorized funding for RUS’s Broadband programs to $50 million per fiscal year. • This proposal would provide adequate resources to private sector providers, including corporations, LLCs, cooperatives or mutual organizations, state or local government, and Indian tribes or tribal organizations to expand broadband access to unserved rural areas. Partnership projects would be given special attention including initiatives that leverage matching funds and that work with anchor institutions like health centers, colleges, universities, and other educational entities, and libraries. Click here for text of this legislation. ###
11.15.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 6297, the Iran Sanctions Extension Act. This bipartisan legislation extends the Iran Sanctions Act for 10 years until 2026, and supports sanctions on Iran’s illicit weapons programs and ballistic missile development that were not suspended as part of the nuclear deal. “Iran is the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism and we must work to hold this dangerous regime accountable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These sanctions are an important tool for countering Iran’s hostile activity in the region. It’s imperative that Congress reauthorizes these sanctions so that the next Administration can control this rogue regime and prevent a nuclear Iran.” Background: Since it was first passed twenty years ago, the Iran Sanctions Act has been at the center of the U.S. response to the threat posed by the Iranian rogue regime. Despite the Obama Administration’s dangerous nuclear deal, ISA remains critical to U.S. efforts to counter the full range of Iran’s malicious activity. The Iran Sanctions Act will expire at the end of the year if Congress does not pass an extension. This Bill: Provides clear statutory authority to re-impose or “snap-back” many of the most powerful sanctions on Iran’s energy industry if the rogue regime rushes toward a nuclear weapon. Gives Congress - not the Executive Branch - final say on when Iran gets permanent sanctions relief. Extends the Iran Sanctions Act for 10 years. ###
10.13.2016	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she will be sharing stories of North Country veterans on her Congressional website throughout the month of November in honor of Veterans Day. “The North Country is home to some of the bravest patriots this country has ever known,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Please help me honor these men and women who have served by allowing me to share their stories and photos with a grateful nation. Our military service members have sacrificed so much to keep our nation safe, and I am honored to serve these brave veterans in Congress.” For residents of New York’s 21st district who have served in the military or know someone who has, Congresswoman Stefanik is inviting them to submit photos and stories from their time in service to our office. Congresswoman Stefanik will be adding these stories and photos on her official website (https://stefanik.house.gov/veterans-share-your-story) and Facebook page throughout the month of November. Please submit your stories and photos to ny21vets@mail.house.gov or to our Glens Falls office at 136 Glen Street, Glens Falls, N.Y., 12801. Please do not mail original photos. Those who are submitting material are asked to include a short description of the branch, title, and assignment for photos. Also, they are asked to be sure they have permission to share photos and stories before sending. ###
10.06.2016	Glens Falls, NY – Ahead of the Charles Evans Hughes Day celebration in Glens Falls, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to commemorate his life of public service. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a remarkable man from my district who dedicated his life to serving our country. Charles Evans Hughes was born in Glens Falls, New York, where his first home still stands on Center Street. Mr. Hughes began his storied career in public service when he was elected Governor of New York in 1906. He was later appointed to the Supreme Court by President William Howard Taft, where he served six years before resigning in 1916 to run for President. While his run for President would be unsuccessful, Mr. Hughes continued his life of public service by serving as Secretary of State for Presidents Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge. Later, Charles Evans Hughes was appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court by President Herbert Hoover. In Glens Falls, we are proud of his amazing legacy of public service and will gather on October 15th to celebrate the 100th Anniversary of his run for President. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
10.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 6207, the Improve VA Timing and Efficiency Act – legislation to allow the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to award contracts to professional medical schedulers who have the resources and expertise to schedule veterans’ medical appointments. “The ongoing problems at the VA are inexcusable and we must do what we can to ensure our veterans get the care they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “When I meet with veterans across our district, I regularly hear about the need to reform the VA to improve service. This important legislation would allow the option of using private outside medical schedulers to reduce the VA’s unacceptable backlog. I am proud to support this legislation and will continue to fight for our veterans in Congress.” Background: In April 2016, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report showing that the average wait time at the VA medical facilities is 22-71 days. Additionally, 60 out of 180 veterans GAO followed had not received medical care by the end of the study. One of the findings was that a primary cause of these delays has been a lack of updated scheduling protocols with outdated systems used by the VA. Legislative Specifics: This bill would allow the Secretary of the VA to award contracts to professional medical schedulers who have the resources and expertise to schedule veterans’ medical appointments. The trained professional schedulers can help veterans schedule all aspects of care, including lab work and medical tests. ###
10.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has led a bipartisan group of New York lawmakers in writing a letter to Vice Admiral James D. Syring, Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in support of Ft. Drum as the best location for a Continental U.S. Interceptor Site. Congresswoman Stefanik and the lawmakers wrote: As Members of the New York Congressional Delegation, we write today to express our support for Ft. Drum in Jefferson County, New York, as the best location for a Continental U.S. Interceptor Site on the east coast. Your leadership and the Missile Defense Agency play a vital role in this process. Therefore, we appreciate your extensive review of the location in New York and your examination of the unique role this location would have in our nation’s overall missile defense strategy. Ft. Drum, New York, remains a strongly preferred choice for a CIS from a strategic and economic standpoint given its location on the East Coast and its existing infrastructure and community support system. Ft. Drum is home to the 10th Mountain Division and has a long history of supporting the United States Military, welcoming new organizations and integrating new families. Additionally, Ft. Drum's airfield, a railroad line on post and Route 81 would handle transportation needs, as well as an adequate amount of utilities to provide for the project. Economically, constructing the site at Ft. Drum would provide a positive, lasting impact. According to the draft Environmental Impact Statement construction alone would bring between 400-600 workers to our region for up to five years. Operational utilization is expected to bring an additional 650-850 workers— that is a combined potential for up to 1,450 jobs and $220 million per year in total value added to the region. Ultimately, the construction of a CIS in New York would provide increased battlespace, greater decision time, increased reliability and a different angle of intercept. Thank you for your full analysis of Ft. Drum as the preferred location choice. We look forward to continued dialogue moving forward. Click here for a digital copy of the letter. The lawmakers joining Congresswoman Stefanik are Sens. Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Reps. Chris Collins (NY-27), Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Daniel M. Donovan (NY-11), Chris Gibson (NY-19), Richard Hanna (NY-22), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Steve Israel (NY-3), John Katko (NY-24), Peter King (NY-2), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Grace Meng (NY-6), Charles B. Rangel (NY-13), Tom Reed (NY-23), Kathleen Rice (NY-4), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Paul Tonko (NY-20), and Lee Zeldin (NY-1). ###
09.29.2016	Watertown, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the announcement by U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack declaring Jefferson and Lewis Counties as primary natural disaster areas due to the ongoing drought: “This is welcome news for our North Country farmers who have been affected by this devastating drought,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased my office has been able to work with local farmers throughout our district, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the regional Farm Service Agency, the Jefferson County Local Development Corporation, and the Cornell Cooperative Extension on this critical issue. This new designation means more resources for affected farms and I commend the USDA for this announcement.” Congresswoman Stefanik has written two letters to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack, asking him to review data associated with our district and to expedite a Jefferson County drought declaration. They can be found here and here. ###
09.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed legislation sponsored by U.S. Reps. Grace Meng (D-NY) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) that seeks to combat flood damage caused by ice jams. The measure, an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 5303), would allow the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to pursue new projects and technologies that prevent and mitigate flood damages associated with ice jams. Ice jams occur when chunks of ice in a river are blocked by obstructions – a bridge, rocks, logs, etc. – and build up to form an ice dam. When this occurs, flooding can be caused upstream from the blockage, and again downstream when the ice finally breaks up. “Each year, flooding that results from the pile up of frozen ice in rivers across the U.S. costs our economy millions of dollars,” said Congresswoman Meng. “During my time in the New York State Assembly, I can remember hearing horrible stories from my colleagues in upstate New York and wondering what more could be done to prepare for these events. It is critical that we do more to combat the hardships that ice jam flooding causes to American communities each year, and I thank my colleagues for supporting this amendment that seeks to do just that.” “This important amendment will help mitigate the damage done to the North Country due to ice jams, and I commend my colleagues for supporting its passage,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Flooding that results from these ice jams can cause damage to our communities and threaten the safety of families who live near water. By preventing these ice jams we can better protect the safety of North Country families and prevent unnecessary destruction. Thank you to Congresswoman Meng for her work on this issue.” The Meng–Stefanik amendment passed unanimously by voice vote.
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has introduced H.R. 6285 -- the Canadian Snowbird Visa Act – legislation to extend by two months the time Canadians who own or lease a home in the United States can travel in the United States. “In the North Country, we know how important Canadian visitors are to our small business owners and to our tourism economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In my district, we share the St. Lawrence River with our Canadian friends who frequently cross the border in the summer months to boat, hike, kayak, or visit one of our many historical sites. Providing them with an extra two months to engage in these activities will support many small businesses, grow jobs, and foster an ever closer relationship with our northern neighbor. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.” Canada is the number one source on international visitors to the United States. Many of these visitors own or rent homes in the United States and spend their winters along our beaches or in our national parks. Current law only allows Canadian visitors 182 days to enjoy all that the United States can offer, meaning that even quick jaunts across the border at other times of the year, must be carefully planned. This legislation will provide retired Canadians who own or lease a home in the United States with an additional two months to shop, travel, or recreate. Click here for bill text. ###
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the Continuing Resolution to keep the government open and funded through December 9th, 2016. “I oppose government shutdowns and know the devastating effects that one would have on families across our district, as well as on our economy and national security,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bill keeps our government open while also providing critical resources to combat the Zika virus. Importantly to the North Country, it provides resources to fight the heroin and opioid epidemic that affects far too many families in our community. It also provides an increase in funding for our brave veterans and supports our military families. “Families in the North Country can rest assured that I will continue to work across the aisle on commonsense solutions and against political brinkmanship.” ###
09.27.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 5392 – the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act. “Our district is home to more veterans than any other district in New York, and I am committed to making sure our veterans and their families get the care they deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “More must be done to combat the tragedy of our nation’s heroes committing suicide, and this commonsense legislation will help ensure that the VA answers our heroes’ calls.” September is National Suicide Prevention Awareness Month and currently 22 veterans a day commit suicide, a rate of one every 65 minutes. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) established the Veterans Crisis Line in July 2007 to provide support to veterans in emotional crisis. Between fiscal years 2008, its first full year of operation, and 2015, the number of calls received by the Veterans Crisis Line increased almost 700 percent, exceeding VA’s expectations. Both the Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General (VAOIG) and the Government Accountability Office conducted an inspection of the VCL and found numerous inefficiencies with the hotline. Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored this legislation that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to issue a quality assurance document for the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) and require VA to develop a plan to ensure that each telephone call, text message, and other communications received by the VCL (including at backup call centers) is answered in a timely manner by a person, consistent with the guidance established by the American Association of Suicidology. ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 5946 – the United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act – legislation she cosponsored to eliminate a tax penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service on medals or other prizes awarded to Team USA athletes during the Olympic and Paralympic Games. “The dedication and sacrifice all of our athletes make to represent the United States in the Olympic Games is inspiring and deserving of our nation’s full support,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district has a unique Olympic history and understands the sacrifices these athletes make on behalf of our nation. This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense fix to ensure our Olympians are not punished for being victorious.” The United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act would exempt the value of medals won and other prizes awarded by the United States Olympic Committee from an athlete’s taxable income. This legislation passed the House today by a vote of 415-1. Our district is the proud home of two Olympic Games – in 1932 and then in 1980 when we watched Team USA’s famous “Miracle on Ice” win over the Soviet National Hockey Team. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik helped lead the effort to keep USA Luge in Lake Placid. ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) sent a letter to Governor Andrew Cuomo calling for his attention to a dairy issue that affects farmers across New York’s 21st district. In her letter, Congresswoman Stefanik wrote: Trade with Canada is very important to both New York and Canada; it is essential that New York ensure that Canada is reminded of this fact as it contemplates moving even further forward with dairy policies intended to harm New York’s dairy sector. This summer, Canada’s dairy producers and processors reached an Agreement in Principle that will encourage Canadian processors to use more domestic milk, giving them a disincentive to use dairy inputs imported from the United States. Ontario also put in place a Class VI milk pricing program this spring that betrays Canada’s existing dairy trade commitments to the United States in a similar manner. These troubling initiatives represent the latest attempt by Canada to reduce its imports of ultra-filtered milk from the United States. This is a critical problem for New York as we are one of the two primary states currently shipping ultra-filtered milk to Canada. These efforts, to displace current United States exports, seek to put our dairy farmers at a competitive disadvantage as they lose a critical market for their milk. New York’s dairy producers and manufacturers have already lost out on export opportunities since Ontario put this new policy in place this spring. If the agreement is finalized this fall, I am greatly concerned that dairy sales to Canada will further erode at a time when our dairy farmers are facing some of the lowest milk prices in recent years. I urge you to not only raise this issue with Canadian officials on behalf of the North Country’s dairy industry, but to evaluate any options you may have to ensure that trade in dairy products is not further disrupted. Canada must uphold its commitments to New York’s businesses to continue to enjoy the fruits of a strong trading relationship with this great state. Using policy tools to internationally undermine investments that New York companies and farmers have made is simply unacceptable. Click here to read the full text of Congresswoman Stefanik’s letter. ###
09.22.2016	Washington, DC—Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced a bicameral resolution in support of our Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans. The resolution expresses the sense of Congress that those who served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam during the period from January 9, 1962 – May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have been exposed to the toxin Agent Orange and should be eligible for all related Federal benefits associated with the Agent Orange Act of 1991. “This resolution is an important step to ensuring our brave Blue Water Vietnam Vets get the care they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am a proud cosponsor of Congressman Chris Gibson’s legislation to deliver these benefits, and this resolution continues the push by asking our elected representatives to go on record in support of these heroes. We should never leave behind our veterans who served heroically and I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense measure.” “I was a cosponsor of the Agent Orange Act of 1991,” Senator Grassley said. “Congress intended that law to apply to all veterans who served in the territory of Vietnam, including the territorial waters. The scientific evidence is compelling that Blue Water Navy veterans were exposed to Agent Orange just like those who served on land. The VA’s current interpretation is wrong and should be changed.” Under the VA’s current interpretation of the Agent Orange Act of 1991, Vietnam Veterans must have stepped foot on the land of Vietnam or served on its inland waterways anytime between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975, to be presumed to have been exposed to herbicides when claiming service-connection for diseases related to Agent Orange exposure. This determination leaves many of our Navy vets unable to claim benefits they need. This resolution would help broaden the presumption of service connection for diseases associated with exposure by veterans to certain herbicide agents while in Vietnam. Including the territorial seas and offshore waters will provide eligibility for care to a larger group of Vietnam Veterans impacted by exposure to such herbicides. Click here for text of the resolution. ###
09.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to raise awareness of the importance of agriculture to the North Country, as well as to support apple orchards across our district. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or to watch the video, click here. Mr. Speaker, do you like apples? Because I rise today to speak about that great time of year when days grow crisp and leaves start to change – apple season. Agriculture is the backbone of our economy in the North Country, and New York State is the second largest-producing state in the country where we export our delicious products across the globe. For most families a trip apple picking is a great annual tradition this time of year. I’ve had the pleasure of touring Apple Orchards across my district – from Apple Jacks Orchards in Plattsburgh, to Forrence and Everettes Orchards in Peru, to Kaneb Orchards in Massena. Every year during apple season these orchards and many others in the North Country produce bushels and bushels of apples, for eating as fresh fruit, to be made into juice and cider, and even to fill delicious apple pies. Mr. Speaker, I’m proud to stand on the House floor today to support our North Country apple farmers. Thank you and I yield back. ###
09.20.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act – bipartisan legislation to protect North Country farmers from burdensome and unclear regulations. “Agriculture is the backbone of our North Country economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “When I travel the district meeting with our farmers, they often speak of the difficulty they are having navigating mountains and mountains of red tape from our federal government. We must help our North Country farmers thrive, which is why I have cosponsored this important legislation to help reduce regulatory uncertainty while also encouraging better stewardship of our environment.” Background: In the last several years, a disturbing trend has emerged in the American dairy and livestock industries regarding waste management. The Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), a law enacted by Congress in 1976 to govern the safe disposal of solid wastes in sanitary landfills, has been misused to inappropriately target agriculture, specifically dairy and livestock producers. In several instances farmers suspected of contributing to high nutrient levels in nearby water supplies have been approached by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or state agencies to determine the source of nitrates and develop plans to reduce levels. Activists have then obtained that information through Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests and other means, and used the information to pursue citizen suits under RCRA against these livestock producers. RCRA was never intended to govern farmers. There are other water statutes farmers are subject to, and even EPA’s original RCRA regulations promulgated in 1979 included exceptions for agricultural byproducts returned to the soil as nutrients. However in 2015, a federal judge in Washington State found several dairies culpable of “open dumping” under RCRA, deciding that nitrates do constitute a “solid waste,” despite the clear intent of Congress and the EPA’s own regulations. Disappointingly, EPA has neither denounced this misguided ruling, nor ruled out promulgating new regulations based on this activist judicial decision. We are deeply troubled that this precedent not only opens livestock and dairy producers to unintended regulation under RCRA, but any farmer who uses nutrients on their crops may also be pursued for over-application. This would place our nation’s entire agricultural community in a gray-area of legal uncertainty. Further, this unlawful application of RCRA on agriculture is punishing farmers for proactively trying to become better environmental stewards. This will only provide a disincentive for further proactive efforts. This will put farmers on the defensive, and will result in slowed efforts to identify and treat water sources in the future. The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act: The purposes of the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act are three fold. First, it will reaffirm Congress’ intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural byproducts to RCRA. It will also codify EPA regulations regarding the treatment of agricultural byproducts under RCRA. Finally, RCRA currently offers partial protection from citizen suits if a state or the federal government is already litigating or prosecuting a farmer, or if the farmer is making a diligent effort to comply with a state or federal order regarding clean-up efforts. However, this ‘double-jeopardy’-like protection is incomplete, and only offers partial protection under one-half of the citizens suits section under RCRA. This legislation will complete that protection, and prevent farmers from being targeted twice if they are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address water quality issues. The Goal: The goal of the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act is to create a legal environment where farmers have a solid understanding of which laws govern their activities and which don’t. The goal of environmental stewardship should be to help farmers improve water quality and reduce their environmental footprint, not subject them to lawsuits and put them out of business for proactive compliance. We should be creating a culture where farmers can feel comfortable working with state and federal regulatory entities, not fearful and resistant to punitive measures, slowing efforts to identify and treat water sources. ###
09.20.2016	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that her offices have recovered over $1.2 million in benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for veterans across New York’s 21st district: “My most important job in Congress is to advocate on behalf of the families in our district, and I’m pleased that my offices have been able to recover these hard earned benefits for our North Country heroes,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our nation and I look forward to continuing to work in Congress on their behalf. If you or anyone you know is having trouble with the VA, please reach out to my office.” Congresswoman Stefanik has offices in Glens Falls, Watertown, and Plattsburgh, in addition to a mobile office. Click here to read a recent post she wrote on Medium about the constituent services her offices offer. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has been awarded the “guardian of Small Business” Award for her 100 percent rating by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) in the 114th Congress. “I am committed to increasing economic opportunity for North Country families and continue to work in Congress to help our small businesses grow,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Growing up in a small business family, I know how critical these companies are to our economy and to our communities. I thank the NFIB for this prestigious award.” ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee, took to the House floor to speak in support of H.R. 5351 – legislation to prohibit the transfer of any individual detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video click here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First I want to thank my HASC colleague and friend, Jackie Walorski, for all of her efforts to prevent the transfer of terrorists from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and introducing H.R. 5351, of which I’m a proud cosponsor. I stand here today as the Representative of the Army’s 10th Mountain Division— resilient Warriors who have been an integral force in the War on Terror in Afghanistan and Iraq since 9/11. As we all know, GITMO is comprised of some the world’s most heinous iterrorists, and we have lost many servicemembers’ lives in their pursuit. And as the 10th Mountain Division and others continue to serve in harm’s way, it is our duty to provide oversight and ensure the Administration is held accountable before any American dies at the hands of a released detainee. Releasing these terrorists and closing GITMO is a true national security concern at home; therefore, I urge my colleagues to stand with our brave men and women in uniform and show them that their sacrifices have not gone to waste – and vote today in support of H.R. 5351. H.R. 5351 passed the House today by a vote of 244-174. Background: H.R. 5351 – To prohibit the transfer of any individual detained at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba H.R. 5351 will temporarily prohibit the transfer of all detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to any country. The Obama Administration is intent on closing the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay and only 61 detainees remain after transferring 46 since January. In current law, the prohibition on transfers to the United States expires on December 31, 2016. This legislation prohibits all transfers of detainees to the United States or any other country until the enactment of the FY2017 NDAA or January 21, 2017. The House-passed FY2017 NDAA prohibits the transfer of detainees to the U.S., prohibits closure of the base, and prohibits the transfer of detainees to Libya, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen. The freeze on transfers provides time for the FY2017 NDAA, which will include relevant provisions, to be enacted or will remain through the end of the Obama Administration in order to prevent the transfer of the remaining detainees. ###
09.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 5620 -- VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016. This bipartisan legislation provides the Secretary of Veterans Affairs flexibility to remove VA employees – including VA Senior Executive Service Employees – for performance or misconduct, adds protections for whistleblowers and streamlines the appeals process for our veterans waiting on claims adjudication. “Our district has more veterans than any district in New York, and I am committed to ensuring they get the care they need,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “When I speak to veterans at events across our district, I regularly hear about the need for more accountability at the VA. This important legislation makes needed reforms to the VA to bring accountability and increase performance and I was pleased to help it pass out of the House today.” This legislation included a bipartisan amendment offered by Congresswoman Stefanik and Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) to allow the VA to recruit resident physicians earlier, offering doctors a conditional job offer up to two years prior to their graduation. “In my district, the Samuel S Stratton VAMC has over 28,000 enrolled patients with an average wait time of 11.25 days for a primary care appointment,” added Stefanik. “This legislation will allow the VA to recruit on an even playing field with the private sector, providing more doctors to care for our North Country heroes.” ###
09.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, spoke on the House floor on H.R. 5587, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. This bipartisan legislation that passed the House on Tuesday empowers state and local governments and will help more Americans—especially young Americans—enter the workforce with the tools and knowledge they need to compete for high-skilled, in-demand jobs. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, in my district, industries ranging from manufacturing, to renewable energy production, to mineral production, regularly tell me about the need for a trained and qualified work force. And when I visit with students and families across our district, I hear about how eager workers are for these advanced opportunities. Over the past two years I have visited many of the BOCES, CV-TEC and P-Tech programs throughout our district and know how critical the training they provide is to preparing our students to compete in a 21st Century economy. This is why I was proud to work with my colleagues on the Education Committee to pass the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. This bipartisan bill will help equip students with the skills and experience they need to find jobs that will lead to long, fruitful careers by encouraging more local control and flexibility. I’m pleased that the House overwhelmingly passed this important legislation, and I urge the Senate to pass it and send it to the President’s desk. Thank you and I yield back. Congresswoman Stefanik helped pass this legislation out of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce in July. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act will help more individuals gain the knowledge and skills they need to succeed by: Empowering State and Local Community Leaders Improving Alignment with In-Demand Jobs Increasing Transparency and Accountability Ensuring a Limited Federal Role An amendment to the legislation offered by Congresswoman Stefanik, Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus, passed by voice vote in Committee that will allow for arts and design integration under the State Leadership Activities and Local Use of Funds sections. ###
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after her bipartisan legislation, the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act, surpassed 50 cosponsors: “I thank my colleagues for their support for this important legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As the first member of my immediately family to graduate from college, I know how important higher education is to ensuring our students are prepared to compete in a 21st century economy. This bipartisan legislation will give North Country students another tool to pay for their education, and I will continue to work in Congress and from my position on the Higher Education committee to pass this bill.” Congresswoman Stefanik introduced the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act in the summer of 2015. By making Pell grants available year round, this bipartisan legislation will help students complete a postsecondary education more quickly and at a lower cost. Student demographics have changed dramatically in recent decades. Whereas the majority of students used to enroll in a four-year, full-time program fresh out of high school, an increasing number of students – “contemporary students” – are older, have a family, and work full- or part-time jobs. These students are looking to quickly and affordably earn a degree that will help them compete and succeed in the workforce. Unfortunately, outdated higher education programs do not meet the needs of contemporary students. For example, while the Pell Grant provides support for more than one-third of all undergraduate students, the program fails to adequately support those who want to complete their studies more quickly by taking additional courses beyond the traditional academic year. Instead, students who receive Pell Grants are bound to a rigid system based on a six-year, two-semester timeline – discouraging many students from pursing higher education altogether. ###
09.09.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after Governor Andrew Cuomo signed into law legislation to expedite the professional licensure process for spouses of active duty military personnel transferred to New York who are licensed to practice in another state. “This is a step in the right direction to ease the unnecessary burden that our military spouses face, and I applaud Governor Cuomo and the New York State Legislature for their work on the issue,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was proud to introduce legislation at the federal level to alleviate the undue stress, expenses, and excessive wait times professionally employed military spouses experience when their family moves for a Permanent Change of Station on military orders. “Military spouses wear their own patches of service and share a true sense of duty to our country. These spouses are often employed in professions that require new licensing for each new location, such as teachers and nurses—vital occupations in a military community. These dedicated spouses must be allowed to maintain their hard-earned professional licenses and certifications as they relocate and I will continue to work in Congress to move my legislation forward.” Read more about Congresswoman Stefanik’s legislation, the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act, here. ###
08.18.2016	Ogdensburg, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) toured the Ogdensburg International Airport facility and held a media availability following her tour at the Port of Ogdensburg. The Ogdensburg International Airport runway extension project was made possible with a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant. “This important runway extension project will be an important addition to our North Country economy and I am pleased my office has been able to assist,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “By bringing low fare airline service to our region, we can increase tourism and commerce to our beautiful region, which means more jobs for North Country families.” “During my time in office, I have prioritized assisting our community with federal grant work. Securing federal funding can be an arduous and complicated task, and my offices across the district work to streamline the process, making it easier for North Country organizations to get funding for critical projects. I am pleased my office has been able to help organizations across our district secure needed funding and look forward to continuing to provide this important service.” Congresswoman Stefanik has worked hard to serve NY-21 by assisting organizations across the district with the federal grants process. She released a federal grants guide and has hosted events to help facilitate the process. Congresswoman Stefanik’s office has written 145 letters of support for grants across the district, and has researched funding for 167 different individuals. Organizations that have received funding with Congresswoman Stefanik’s support include the Seagle Music Colony, the City of Plattsburgh, the St. Regis Falls Volunteer Fire Department, and more. Additionally, with Congresswoman Stefanik’s support, the FAA released over $10 million in federal funding for the runway extension at Ogdensburg International Airport. ###
08.17.2016	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted a transportation roundtable in Plattsburgh at the North Country Chamber of Commerce with many area leaders. Congresswoman Stefanik discussed her work to pass the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act and issues important to the region. “I was proud to help pass this important, bipartisan legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our economy needs predictability and certainty, and this highway bill would allow us to stop passing short term, stop-gap measures so that businesses can plan and grow. This legislation also reauthorized important highway safety programs to help keep North Country families safe. I know the importance of transportation and infrastructure to our North Country economy, and I will continue to work in Congress on these important issues.” "Where things move is where prosperity occurs. That's the core of our strategic approach to economic development," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "That's why transportation matters are always a top priority for our efforts in Washington, including the December passage of a long needed five year federal transportation bill, and why we are pleased to be able to host this dialogue with Congresswoman Stefanik. We have continuing needs from roads and bridges to our airports, our border crossings and our transportation equipment companies." Congresswoman Stefanik understands the transportation needs of our region and how critical infrastructure is to our North Country economy. This is why she helped pass the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act -- the first long-term transportation package to pass in a decade, allowing us to stop passing short term, stop-gap measures so that businesses like Bombardier and NovaBus can plan and grow. In our region, where the transportation equipment business is growing - with 33 companies now employing more than 8,100 people – its passage and enactment was vital. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik and her office have strongly advocated to increase transportation and commerce to our region. With Congresswoman Stefanik’s support, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) approved over $10 million in federal funding for the runway extension at Ogdensburg International Airport (OGS). “The runway extension plan at Ogdensburg International Airport will help facilitate low fare airline service to the region, expanding commerce, tourism and our local economy. Furthermore, this important infrastructure project will help facilitate greater commerce with our Canadian neighbors as well,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. Congresswoman Stefanik has established a strong working relationship with the FAA on matters in the Plattsburgh area. She has worked to assist Clinton County with the deed of release to sell former Clinton County Airport property and has worked to support the Essential Air Service (EAS) program. ###
08.12.2016	Chateaugay, NY – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) visited Jericho Rise Wind Farm yesterday, a new site being constructed to bring renewable energy to the towns of Bellmont and Chateaugay. Congresswoman Stefanik’s office assisted in the permitting process for this wind farm with the US Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). “I was very impressed with the site and project that will bring more renewable energy to our district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I support an all of the above energy approach and was pleased to help pass critical tax credits last year to support more wind and solar power. By increasing our use of renewable energy from sites like Jericho Rise, we can continue to lower energy costs for hard working North Country families while working to increase our nation’s energy independence. Thanks to the team at EDP Renewables for the tour.” ###
08.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement ahead of the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro: “The Olympic Games bring together the best athletes across the world and I look forward to joining families across our district in rooting for Team USA,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In our district, we have a very unique Olympic history, drawing the games here twice – in 1932 and then in 1980 when we watched Team USA’s famous “Miracle on Ice” win over the Soviet National Hockey Team. “In these games, our district is proud to have one of our own representing the United States in the cycling competition. Glens Falls’ native Megan Guarnier enters these Olympic Games as the top rated female cyclist in the world and we know she will make our country proud. “The dedication and sacrifice all of our athletes make to represent the United States in the Olympic Games is inspiring and deserving of our nation’s full support. This is why, in Congress, I will be cosponsoring legislation that will exempt our athletes from burdensome tax penalties they face when they win Olympic medals. After all of the sacrifice our athletes make for years to represent us on the world stage, we should not punish them for being victorious.” Congresswoman Stefanik will be cosponsoring the Tax Exemptions for American Medalists (TEAM) Act. This legislation amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income, for income tax purposes, the value of any medal or prize money received on account of competition in the Olympic Games. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik helped lead the effort to keep USA Luge in Lake Placid. She visited the USA Luge facility in Lake Placid last summer and met with community leaders across the region to discuss ways to keep USA Luge here. Congresswoman Stefanik’s office also met and coordinated with ROOST to provide them with a letter of support for their efforts at the state level to keep USA Luge. ###
07.29.2016	Plattsburgh, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted a roundtable in Plattsburgh at the North Country Chamber of Commerce with many area leaders to discuss progress made on issues that are important to our Northern border, including commerce, tourism and funding for the Department of Homeland Security. “In the North Country, we know that Canada is more than just a bordering nation; they are our neighbors and our friends,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Today’s roundtable was a critical opportunity to speak with community leaders on issues ranging from commerce to tourism to my leadership on the landmark pre-clearance legislation that would facilitate travel and tourism between the U.S. and Canada, as well as strengthen our national security. Thank you to Garry Douglas and the North Country Chamber, as well as everyone who attended.” "Nothing is more important to the North Country economy than our relationship with Canada and fluidity at our northern border," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "That's why we look to the North Country's Member of Congress to play a leadership role in Washington in all cross border matters, and we are pleased that Congresswoman Stefanik is doing just that, as Bill Owens and John McHugh did before her. Some very important advances in U.S.-Canadian relations are currently in play, including needed Congressional approval of the Pre-Clearance Agreement which will enhance legitimate cross border movement, and we are pleased the Congresswoman is providing this opportunity to update us and to continue to identify changing needs at the border.” Congresswoman Stefanik has a deep understanding of the importance of Canada to our district. Canada is more than just a bordering nation; they are our neighbors and our friends. Plattsburgh has even branded itself as Montreal's “U.S. Suburb,” hosting more than 100 U.S. subsidiaries of Canadian companies, with 15 percent of its area workforce working for a Canadian or border-related employer. This is why Congresswoman Stefanik joined the Northern Border Caucus shortly after arriving in Congress, and why she crossed party lines early in 2015 to vote to keep the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funded. As she said at the time, “DHS funding is critical to our district because of the broad economic importance of our Canadian border, and the need to make sure that the thousands of North Country DHS employees are paid on time for their hard work.” Congresswoman Stefanik followed this work up in April by visiting with U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the Port of Champlain to learn about their best practices and interagency information sharing. In August of last year, Congresswoman Stefanik led a North Country delegation visit to Montreal to promote commerce, transportation and tourism for the area. When Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Canadian Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Steven Blaney announced a landmark U.S./Canadian Pre-Clearance agreement, Congresswoman Stefanik pledged to work “with my colleagues in Congress to pass the legislation necessary to implement this plan.” She followed up on this commitment by cointroducing the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016 – bipartisan legislation to expand preclearance operations in Canada, which will facilitate travel and tourism and strengthen our national security. In addition, she took to the House floor to urge her colleagues to support this critical legislation and is working in Congress to see it passed. ###
07.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math) Caucus, announced the 2016 NY-21 Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is open to all K-12 students in New York’s 21st Congressional District. “The North Country is home to many gifted students and the Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity for students interested in the STEAM fields to engage in computer science and grow their coding skills,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. The winner of this competition will have their app displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year where it will be seen by visitors from around the world. I look forward to seeing what our gifted students can create!” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students regardless of coding experience and provides an opportunity for students interested in computer science to design, create, and showcase an original app while giving them the chance to learn valuable technical skills. Students are allowed to participate as individuals or as teams of up to four. Entries are being accepted now through November 2, 2016. Submissions will be judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. For more rules and information visit www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us or my website. ###
07.18.2016	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that her office is sponsoring several FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Workshops in New York’s 21st Congressional District. The AFG Program was created to enhance the ability of first responders to protect the health and safety of the public from fire and related hazards. Any fire department, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Service (EMS) agency, or State Fire Training Academy can apply. “My offices are pleased to serve our North Country community, and one important way we can help is by assisting with the federal grants process,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Securing federal funding can be an arduous and complicated task, and these workshops will provide tools, additional information and guidance to help make our fire departments and EMS agencies as competitive as possible. In New York’s 21st district, we are grateful for our brave first responders and I am pleased that my office will be providing this valuable service.” Information about three AFG workshops Congresswoman Stefanik’s office is facilitating can be found below: Friday, July 22, 2016, 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM Roswell P. Flower Memorial Library 229 Washington Street Watertown, NY 13601 Tuesday, August 2, 2016, 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Wilton Fire Department 270 Ballard Road Wilton, New York 12831 Wednesday, August 3, 2016, 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Clinton County Emergency Services Building 16 Emergency Services Drive Plattsburgh, NY 12903 ###
07.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement after the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) announced that they have extended the public comment period for the potential selection of Fort Drum to be a site for an East Coast Missile Interceptor System until August 17th: “This is great news and gives our Fort Drum community an important opportunity to weigh in,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. ““Fort Drum is the best location for the Department of Defense to develop this missile defense system and I encourage our community to make their voices heard by issuing their comments to the MDA. Fort Drum and the surrounding community have a unique relationship and a site like this will positively impact our national security and our local economy. In fact, a potential site would support up to 2,000 jobs in our community.” Public comments may be submitted through the MDA website here. ###
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Precision Farming Act of 2016 -- legislation to increase access to broadband connectivity for our rural farmers. “The internet has the power to revolutionize the agriculture sector,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “For instance, a dairy farmer from Potsdam who spoke with my office uses broadband to automate feeding plans for his cows. To support our North Country farmers, I have introduced the Precision Farming Act of 2016. This legislation will encourage the construction of rural broadband connections to farms by allowing providers to receive reimbursements for the costs related to construction. Furthermore, this legislation would put our nation’s farmers first, by prioritizing their loan applications for additional construction. To compete in a 21st Century economy, our farmers must have access to broadband technology.” Precision farming is the practice of utilizing the internet to increase efficiency through data analysis and automation. This practice can encompass every aspect of the agricultural production chain from supply providers, fertilizer applicators, veterinarians and farmers all the way to consumers. These innovative practices are changing the way our nation’s farms are producing our food. Unfortunately, many rural farmers are unable to take advantage of these exciting technologies due to limited broadband infrastructure in their communities. This legislation would take a two pronged approach to addressing rural agricultural broadband challenges by making installation of a broadband line more affordable. Under this legislation, broadband providers would be eligible for a one-time $15,000 reimbursement for each line installed for a qualifying precision farming operation. Farmers wishing to apply for loans to cover additional installation costs would find their applications prioritized under the Rural Electrification Act. Click here for text of this legislation. What They’re Saying: “This bill aims to eliminate the digital divide that impacts the family farm,” said Phil Wagschal, President of Slic Network Solutions. “Fast, cost efficient fiber-based Internet is meant to be used not only by people but also by Internet-connected devices that allows for precision farming. As the region’s fastest provider, our fiber infrastructure was designed to support and connect all types of devices and services. It’s those devices and services that will allow the region’s agricultural based families to stay competitive, and to be able to continue to grow their businesses. The bill also means the more Internet connected the North Country’s farm based families are, the more their children will have access to online educational information. Faster Internet also preserves the family farm. It brings enterprise scale opportunities and approaches to the individual farm. They can now be competitive, and more modern, allowing their farms to make more money, have access to the latest technology and science available, to raise and grow more of what they can take to market, all in a far more efficient manner.” ###
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass three important measures this week to hold Iran accountable this week. “Iran is the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism and we must work to hold this dangerous regime accountable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Iran continues to illegally develop their ballistic missile program, support international terrorism, and commit human rights abuses against their own population. The legislation we passed out of the House this week will help address this rogue behavior and prevent U.S. tax dollars from subsidizing this regime.” The measures passed out of the House include H.R. 5119 – the No Heavy Water (2H2O) from Iran Act; H.R. 5631-- the Iran Accountability Act of 2016; and H.R.4992 – the United States Financial System Protection Act of 2016. ###
07.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed a series of key higher education initiatives that Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the Committee on Education and the Workforce recently worked on. These bipartisan proposals empower students and families, simplify and improve the financial aid process, and enhance existing support and accountability for institutions serving minority students. “As a Member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, I am committed to increasing access to high quality, affordable education for North Country students and families,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The bipartisan legislation that passed out of the House today will help reform the student loan process, increase transparency in higher education, and increase financial literacy. I commend my colleagues for passing these important bills.” The bills include: The Accessing Higher Education Opportunities Act (H.R. 5529), led by Reps. Joe Heck (R-NV) and Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), will help students at Hispanic-Serving Institutions pursue a career as a physician, dentist, or other health care professional and enhance existing support for Hispanic students pursuing an education. For more information, click here. The Simplifying the Application for Student Aid Act (H.R. 5528), led by Reps. Heck and Jared Polis (D-CO), will reform the federal student aid process to help students make timely financial decisions about their education and better prepare for college. Among other measures, the bill will ensure students are able to use income data from two years prior when applying for aid and receive accurate aid information as soon as possible. For more information, click here. The HBCU Capital Financing Improvement Act (H.R. 5530), led by Reps. Alma Adams (D-NC) and Bradley Byrne (R-AL), will improve access to and oversight of an existing program that enables Historically Black Colleges and Universities to improve their campuses to better serve their students. For more information, click here. The Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act (H.R. 3179), led by Reps. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), will promote financial literacy by enhancing the timing, frequency, and content of counseling for all recipients of federal financial aid. For more information, click here. The Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act (H.R. 3178), led by Higher Education and Workforce Training Subcommittee Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) and Rep. Gregorio Sablan (D-MP), will help students gain access to the facts they need to make an informed decision about where to pursue their education. For more information, click here. ###
07.11.2016	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the announcement that Norsk Titanium will be investing $1 billion for the world's first industrial-scale aerospace additive factory in Plattsburgh over the next ten years: “Plattsburgh continues to emerge as a major manufacturing and economic hub for our region, and this announcement is continued good news for the growth of our local economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This investment means hundreds of jobs for the Plattsburgh region in the high-tech aerospace industry. As a Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, I am committed to working to ensure that workforce training is available in the North Country to meet the needs of new employers such as Norsk and to make the region attractive for further 21st century manufacturers. I applaud this news and will continue working in Congress on efforts to grow our North Country economy.” ###
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice-Chair on the Readiness Subcomittee, was selected by Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI-01) to serve on the formal House-Senate conference committee charged with resolving differences over the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act. “I am grateful to Speaker Ryan for selecting me to serve again on the bicameral NDAA conference committee,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This legislation is critical to providing for our nation’s security and it’s important that our district and Fort Drum have a seat at the table during negotiations. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to secure a strong NDAA that gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe.” ###
07.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced bipartisan legislation to alleviate the undue stress, expenses, and excessive wait times professionally employed military spouses experience when their family moves for a Permanent Change of Station on military orders. “Military spouses wear their own patches of service and share a true sense of duty to our country,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These spouses are often employed in professions that require new licensing for each new location, such as teachers and nurses—vital occupations in a military community. These dedicated spouses must be allowed to maintain their hard-earned professional licenses and certifications as they relocate. Military spouses serve too – and my bill will help alleviate unnecessary stress and expenses, help ease the transition, and will give these spouses and their families some deserved predictability.” The Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act will: Require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station. Expedite license portability. Require the Department of Defense to conduct a study to determine ways to improve the military spouse unemployment and underemployment rate. This legislation is supported by the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the National Military Spouse Network, and the National Military Family Association. Joyce Wessel Raezer, Executive Director of the National Military Family Association: “Military spouses face many challenges that diminish the stability of their families…with each government ordered move, military spouses incur high costs for recertification or licensure. These delays impact their ability to work and contribute to the financial well-being of their families. This bill will help off-set the cost of government ordered moves to ensure career-military spouses can seek a new licensure or certification and become employed at their new duty location right away.” Click here for bill text. Original cosponsors of this legislation include: Reps. Brad Ashford (D-NE-02), Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Rob Bishop (R-UT-01), Barbara Comstock (R-VA-10), Paul Cook (R-CA-08), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), Chris Gibson (R-NY-19), Walter Jones (R-NC-03), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-09), Grace Meng (D-NY-09), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX-16), Martha Roby (R-AL-02), Marc Veasey (D-TX-33), and Rob Wittman (R-VA-01). ###
07.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce passed H.R. 5587, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. This bipartisan legislation empowers state and local governments and will help more Americans—especially young Americans—enter the workforce with the tools and knowledge they need to compete for high-skilled, in-demand jobs. “The Perkins Career and Technical Education Act helps to equip students with the skills and experience they need to find jobs that will lead to long, fruitful careers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is especially important in the North Country which is home to many industries ranging from bus and train manufacturing to paper mills and a workforce that is eager for continued opportunity. This important legislation provides a needed update to this program.” The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act will help more individuals gain the knowledge and skills they need to succeed by: Empowering State and Local Community Leaders Improving Alignment with In-Demand Jobs Increasing Transparency and Accountability Ensuring a Limited Federal Role An amendment to the legislation offered by Congresswoman Stefanik, Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus, passed by voice vote that will allow for arts and design integration under the State Leadership Activities and Local Use of Funds sections. “One issue I hear from businesses in my district is that they have a desire to find more employees who are not only technically proficient but also possess the creative and design skills found in the arts,” added Stefanik. “As our world’s challenges become more complex employers need workers who can think outside of the box and creatively attack problems. This holds true whether you are manufacturing a vehicle door, maintaining an automated system or designing the cockpit of a new aircraft, these skills are in demand and we need 21st Century career and technical education to train tomorrow’s workforce. My amendment will allow for arts and design integration under the State Leadership Activities and Local Use of Funds sections. This additional use of funds would support the addition of art and design skills training - when appropriate - into career and technical education programs. It is critical that programs and students who may benefit from exposure and training in the arts have the ability to do so.” Click here for more on today’s markup. ###
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) helped the House pass the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored to reform the federal mental health system and help reduce instances of gun violence. “This is a major step forward in addressing our nation’s antiquated and ineffective approach to treating mental health problems,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Sadly, millions of Americans suffer from severe psychiatric disorders that are going untreated. This bipartisan legislation reforms our mental healthcare system to focus our resources on those who need them the most. I commend Congressman Tim Murphy and my colleagues in the House for passing this important bill today.” Background: As documented in a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, 112 federal programs intended to address mental illness aren’t connecting for effective service delivery and “interagency coordination for programs supporting individuals with serious mental illness is lacking.” While the federal government dedicates $130 billion towards mental health each year, the so-called “mental health system” is best described by its deficits. To name just a few: There is a nationwide shortage of nearly 100,000 needed psychiatric beds. Three of the largest mental health “hospitals” are in fact criminal incarceration facilities (LA County, Cook County, and Rikers Island jails). Privacy rules that frustrate both physicians and family members generate nearly 8,000 official complaints yearly. For every 2,000 children with a mental health disorder, only one child psychiatrist is available. The leading federal mental health agency does not employ a psychiatrist. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015, H.R. 2646, fixes the nation’s broken mental health system by refocusing programs, reforming grants, and removing federal barriers to care. Empowers Parents and Caregivers Breaks down barriers for families to work with doctors and mental health professionals and be meaningful partners in the front-line care delivery team. Drives Evidence-Based Care Creates an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders with mental health credentials within the Department of Health & Human Services to elevate the importance of mental health in the nation’s leading health agency, coordinate programs across different agencies, and promote effective evidence-based programs. Further Refines Mental Health & Substance Abuse Parity Requires the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders to make public all federal investigations into compliance with the parity law so families and consumers know what treatment they have rights to access. Driving Innovation Establishes a National Mental Health Policy Laboratory to drive innovative models of care, develop evidence-based and peer-review standards for grant programs. Dedicates funding for the Brain Initiative (Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies Initiative). Improving Transition from One Level of Care to Another Requires psychiatric hospitals to establish clear and effective discharge planning to ensure a timely and smooth transition from the hospital to appropriate post-hospital care and services. Fixes Shortage of Crisis Mental Health Beds Provides additional psychiatric hospital beds for those experiencing an acute mental health crisis and in need of short term (less than 30 days) immediate inpatient care for patient stabilization. Reaching Underserved and Rural Populations Advances tele-psychiatry to link pediatricians and primary care doctors with psychiatrists and psychologists in areas where patients don’t have access to needed care. Focuses on Mental Health Workforce Requires the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders to study and recommend a national strategy for increasing the number of psychiatrists, child and adolescent psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, clinical social workers, and mental health peer-support specialists. Includes child and adolescent psychiatrists in the National Health Service Corps. Authorizes the Minority Fellowship Program. Advances Early Intervention and Prevention Programs Authorizes, for the first time in federal law, the Recovery After Initial Schizophrenia Episode (RAISE), an evidence-based early intervention program. Reauthorizes the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. Launches a new early childhood grant program to provide intensive services for children with serious emotional disturbances in an educational setting. Alternatives to Institutionalization Incentivizes states to provide community-based alternatives to institutionalization for those with serious mental illness, such as Assisted Outpatient Treatment and other assertive-care community approaches. Focuses on Suicide Prevention Reauthorizes the Garrett Lee Smith Suicide Prevention Program, invests in research on self-directed violence and for the first time authorizes in statute the Suicide Prevention Hotline Advances Integration Between Primary & Behavioral Care Extends health information technology for mental health providers to coordinate care with primary care doctors using electronic medical records. Increases Program Coordination Across the Federal Government Establishes Interagency Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee to organize, integrate, and coordinate the research, treatment, housing and services for individuals with substance use disorders and mental illness. Effective Protection & Advocacy Ends the decades-old prohibition on physicians seeking to dedicate time volunteering at community mental health clinics and federally-qualified health centers. For more information on this legislation, click here. ###
07.06.2016	Glens Falls, NY – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the announcement that Plattsburgh has been awarded $10 million from the state for downtown revitalization and economic development: “This is tremendous news for our Plattsburgh community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I had the privilege of speaking with Mayor James Calnon and Steve Peters recently to hear about their proposal to revitalize downtown Plattsburgh and I know this grant will go a long way to help improve this vibrant community. This is great news for the North Country and I applaud Governor Cuomo for awarding our region with this important funding.” ###
07.01.2016	Glens Falls, NY –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced NY-21 Mobile Office hours for July. “One of my most important commitments to families across the North Country is to be accessible and transparent,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In addition to our offices in Glens Falls, Watertown and Plattsburgh, our mobile office helps us provide unparalleled constituent services by coming straight to you. I hope you will let our office know how we can be of service.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s mobile office hours will be updated on her website here. For a list of constituent services our office provides, click here. Congresswoman Stefanik’s mobile office and staff will be available to serve NY-21 residents at the following times and locations in July: Town of Whitehall Town of Whitehall Town Hall 57 Skenesborough Drive, Whitehall, NY 12887 Thursday, July 7, 2016 from 10:00 AM until 12:00 PM Town of Argyle Argyle Municipal Building 41 Main Street, Argyle, NY 12809 Thursday, July 7, 2016 from 1:00 PM until 3:00 PM Town of Johnsburg Town of Johnsburg Town Hall 219 Main Street, North Creek, NY 12853 Tuesday, July 12, 2016 from 10:00 AM until 12:00 PM Town of Bolton Bolton Landing Town Hall 4949 Lake Shore Drive, Bolton, NY 12814 Tuesday, July 12, 2016 from 1:00 PM until 3:00 PM Town of Corinth Corinth Emergency Squad Building 101 Sherman Avenue, Corinth, NY 12822 Tuesday, July 26, 2016 from 10:00 AM until 12:00 PM Town of Caroga Town of Caroga Municipal Building 1840 State Highway #10, Caroga Lake, NY 12032 Tuesday, July 26, 2016 from 2:00 PM until 4:00 PM ###
06.28.2016	Watertown, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after meeting with officials at the Missile Defense Agency as part of their listening session to explore the potential for Fort Drum to be selected as a site for an East Coast Missile Interceptor System: “Today was an important step in the process of exploring Fort Drum as a potential site for an East Coast Missile Interceptor System,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I helped lead an executive session with local elected officials and community leaders to meet with representatives from the Missile Defense Agency and speak with attendees at the opening of the public session. We made a strong case that Fort Drum is the best location for the Department of Defense to develop this system. Fort Drum and the surrounding community have a unique relationship and a site like this will positively impact our national security and our local economy.” ###
06.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that Allegiant Air announced they will provide service at Ogdensburg International Airport: “This is another exciting development for Ogdensburg International Airport and for our region as this project continues to make progress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “By bringing low fare airline service to our region, we can expand tourism and commerce – critical to growing our local economy. I commend Allegiant Air on this announcement and the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority for their continued efforts to this critical infrastructure project.” Congresswoman Stefanik has been a strong advocate for the runway extension at Ogdensburg airport, meeting with FAA officials last summer to help push through funding. After the proposed expansion, the airport will support between 125 and 135 jobs, compared to 53 in 2010. In addition, the total amount of direct and indirect economic activity that Ogdensburg International Airport produces could nearly double by 2017. The runway expansion will also bring an estimated 38,000 new passengers and their resources into the North Country. ###
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and her colleagues on the Committee on Education and the Workforce advanced a series of bipartisan proposals to empower students and families, simplify and improve the financial aid process, and enhance existing support and accountability for institutions serving minority students. “As a Member of the Higher Education Subcommittee, I am committed to increasing access to high quality, affordable education for North Country students and families,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The bipartisan legislation that passed the committee today will help reform the student loan process, increase transparency in higher education, and increase financial literacy. I commend my colleagues on the Committee for their work on these important bills and look forward to helping them pass the full House.” The bills -- all approved by voice vote -- include: The Accessing Higher Education Opportunities Act (H.R. 5529), led by Reps. Joe Heck (R-NV) and Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), will help students at Hispanic-Serving Institutions pursue a career as a physician, dentist, or other health care professional and enhance existing support for Hispanic students pursuing an education. For more information, click here. The Simplifying the Application for Student Aid Act (H.R. 5528), led by Reps. Heck and Jared Polis (D-CO), will reform the federal student aid process to help students make timely financial decisions about their education and better prepare for college. Among other measures, the bill will ensure students are able to use income data from two years prior when applying for aid and receive accurate aid information as soon as possible. For more information, click here. The HBCU Capital Financing Improvement Act (H.R. 5530), led by Reps. Alma Adams (D-NC) and Bradley Byrne (R-AL), will improve access to and oversight of an existing program that enables Historically Black Colleges and Universities to improve their campuses to better serve their students. For more information, click here. The Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act (H.R. 3179), led by Reps. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), will promote financial literacy by enhancing the timing, frequency, and content of counseling for all recipients of federal financial aid. For more information, click here. The Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act (H.R. 3178), led by Higher Education and Workforce Training Subcommittee Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) and Rep. Gregorio Sablan (D-MP), will help students gain access to the facts they need to make an informed decision about where to pursue their education. For more information, click here. ###
06.17.2016	Washington, D.C. –Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Beto O'Rourke (D-TX) introduced the bipartisan Get Veterans a Doctor Now Act. This legislation allows the VA to recruit resident physicians earlier, offering doctors a conditional job offer up to two years prior to their graduation. Currently, the VA must wait to recruit resident doctors until they have completed their residency as doctors. This bipartisan bill removes this limitation, allowing the VA to compete with the private sector for the best doctors. “This important legislation will help make sure our heroes get the care they deserve,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In my district, the Samuel S Stratton VAMC alone has over 28,000 enrolled patients with an average wait time of 11.25 days for a primary care appointment. This legislation will allow the VA to recruit on an even playing field with the private sector, providing more doctors to care for these North Country heroes.” “There are more than 43,000 unfilled medical positions at the VA. This prevents the VA from providing quality care that our veterans have earned. The sooner we can hire more qualified doctors to see our veterans, the better,” said O’Rourke. ###
06.16.2016	Glens Falls, NY –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced Mobile Office hours for June. “One of my most important commitments to families across the North Country is to be accessible and transparent,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In addition to our offices in Glens Falls, Watertown and Plattsburgh, our mobile office helps us provide unparalleled constituent services by coming straight to you. I hope you will let our office know how we can be of service.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s mobile office hours will be updated on her website here. For a list of constituent services our office provides, click here. Congresswoman Stefanik’s mobile office and staff will be available to serve NY-21 residents at the following times and locations in June: Town of Martinsburg New Municipal Offices 5405 Cemetery Road Martinsburg, NY 13404 Tuesday, June 21, 2016 from 10:00 AM until 12:00 PM Town of Lisbon Hepburn Library of Lisbon 6899 County Route 10 Lisbon, NY 13658 Wednesday, June 22, 2016 from 11:00AM until 1:00PM Town and Village of Adams Town and Village of Adams Municipal Offices 3 South Main Street Adams, NY 13605 Friday, June 24, 2016 from 1:00PM until 3:00PM Town of Waddington Town of Waddington Municipal Building 48 Maple St. Waddington, NY 13694 Monday, June 27, 2016 from 1:00PM until 3:00PM Town of Parishville Parishville Town Hall 1772 State Highway 72 Parishville, NY 13672 Wednesday, June 29, 2016 from 1:00PM until 3:00PM ###
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Establishing Digital Interactive Transparency (EDIT) Act. The EDIT Act will instruct the Library of Congress to open up the legislative process by implementing a track changes style system for Congress.gov. “One of my most important commitments to families across the North Country is to be accessible and transparent,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As lawmakers, we must work to give our constituents more access to the work they send us here to do. That is why I have introduced the EDIT Act -- commonsense legislation that will allow the American public to see at what stage in the process changes are made to legislation they are following. “We live in an age of limitless information and technology that is never further than your pocket -- we should use these tools to provide the American people more open, transparent access to our work in Congress.” This legislation instructs the Librarian of Congress to ensure that each version of a bill or resolution that is made available on Congress.gov is presented in a manner which permits the viewer to follow and track online, within the same document, any changes made from previous versions of the bill or resolution. Click here for text of the legislation. ###
06.14.2016	Washington, D.C. –Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02) introduced a House Resolution to support the goals and ideals of creating a “Military Retiree Appreciation Day.” “The North Country is home to more veterans than any district in New York, and I am proud to introduce this resolution to honor those who have spent their careers serving our nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Military Retirees continue to serve as leaders across our communities, and their patriotism deserves to be honored by a grateful nation.” “For many of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines, service does not end with retirement – they are community members, family, and neighbors to us all,” said Congressman Bishop. “And so, Military Retiree Appreciation Day will honor service members’ ongoing commitment to the strength and welfare of our nation, even after the uniform has been hung up after retirement.” Background: America’s military retirees represent approximately .5% of its total population. Those who faithfully serve their country for twenty or more years show a dedication to service unrivalled by any other profession. Career military service men and women serve daily with the knowledge that they can be sent anywhere in the world and be asked to make the ultimate sacrifice to protect and defend America’s interests and ideals. Their service is voluntary and often requires decades of extreme personal sacrifices. Currently, these consummate professionals are not officially and separately recognized or honored by the government or people of the United States. The bipartisan resolution introduced today honors the prior and continued service of our military retirees by supporting the goals and ideals of a “Military Retiree Appreciation Day.” Military retirees display proven leadership and commitment to the principles that make our country great, and they deserve this recognition from a grateful nation. This resolution is supported by the American Military Retirees Association. Click here for the legislative text. ###
06.13.2016	Washington, D.C. –Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), and Suzan DelBene (D-WA) ) led 98 other Members in a letter to U.S. Labor Secretary Thomas Perez and Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services León Rodriguez regarding the administrative breakdown in the timely processing of H-2A agricultural worker program applications and visa petitions. The administrative breakdown is impacting the ability of American ranchers and growers to hire legal seasonal workers in time for planting and harvest, and the Members urge DOL and USCIS to adhere to regulatory requirements to process program applications efficiently and expeditiously: The Members wrote in the letter: “As the instability in the labor force grows, so does the use of the H-2A seasonal temporary worker program. While we acknowledge the need for broader improvements to our legal immigration system and temporary visa program, the H-2A program is the sole legal visa program available to production agriculture although it is limited to labor of a ‘temporary or seasonal nature.’ Although still accounting for less than 10 percent of all seasonal farm workers, employment of H-2A workers has nearly tripled in the past five years. Growth in the H-2A program has occurred despite extreme regulatory hurdles, government inefficiencies, and high costs.” The Members continued: “The need for a legal and reliable work force is so great that farmers use this program despite these concerns. Unfortunately, regulatory roadblocks create even more complexity. For the past two years, H-2A employers have experienced unacceptable delays in the processing of labor certifications, visa petitions, and interviews for final border crossing and arrival on farms and ranches. Already this spring, farmers from all across the country are seeing significant delays at the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). Unfortunately, it is also clear that DOL is at times not following the statutory requirement prescribed in law to respond to applications 30 days prior to the farmer’s date of need. These delays are devastating to growers and ranchers that cannot wait to plant, tend, and harvest. DOL must comply with the law, and the failure to comply is unacceptable. This trend leaves growers fearful of a major break-down in the system when peak demand for H-2A workers hits beginning in June.” The Members continued: “In view of the current situation, we urge that the agencies expeditiously process agricultural employers’ H-2A applications where possible. Our farms, our economies, and the livelihoods of our constituents depend upon timely application processing and visa issuance in advance of farmers’ dates of need. In accordance with all rules and regulations, we look forward to your response and your plans to increase the efficiency of the H-2A program to supply the agriculture sector with much-needed labor. We look forward to your timely response.” Click here for the full text of the letter. ###
06.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Chair of the House Republican Policy Committee’s Millennial Taskforce and a Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, introduced H.R. 5415, the Helping Employers Lessen Payments for Students Act, important legislation that would allow employers to make tax free payments towards their employees’ student loans. “Overwhelming student loan payments are holding millions back from buying homes, starting families and saving for retirement,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “My bill would provide graduates and our next generation workforce with a powerful tool to pay off student loans faster while starting their careers.” “Higher education is a key investment in our nation's workforce development and stimulating new economic growth opportunities," said Tony Collins, President of Clarkson University. "Representative Stefanik's legislation is fully aligned to the needs of our Clarkson students and corporate partners alike. This legislation is the kind of responsible change needed to have a positive impact on our economy." The Helping Employers Lessen Payments for Students Act would allow employers to make tax free payments on an employees’ student loans, similar to contributions to a 401(k) program. The annual maximum payment from the employer would be $10,000. Click here for bill text. ###
06.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored the Rural Guard Act of 2016 – bipartisan legislation to reduce barriers to enlistment in the National Guard and Reserve for those who live in rural areas. “Brave men and women who step forward to serve their nation shouldn’t be at a financial disadvantage because of where they live,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “My district is home to many patriotic Members of the National Guard and Reserve and this bipartisan, commonsense legislation would help ensure they are reimbursed for training.” Currently, Members of the National Guard and Reserve can receive up to $300 reimbursement for travel to training activities. While this is financially viable in many areas around the country, it can make National Guard and Reserve participation cost-prohibitive in many rural areas. The Rural Guard and Reserve Act modifies existing law to remove the $300 reimbursement cap, on a case by case basis, if certain conditions are met. Legislative Specifics: This bill authorizes the removal, on a case by case basis, of the $300 cap on travel expense reimbursements to certain members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve who: • Live in a rural area in the same state as the inactive duty training location. • Are required to travel to the inactive training location using a boat or aircraft due to limited or nonexistent vehicular routes, or from a permanent residence more than 75 miles from that location. ###
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced two pieces of legislation to help combat and raise awareness about the threat invasive species pose to our ecosystems. Click here to watch her remarks announcing these initiatives on the House floor. “Our environment is our lifeblood in the North Country and I am committed to preserving it for future generations,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These important pieces of legislation will help raise awareness about the threats these invasive species play in our natural ecosystems and will help combat these predators. This is an issue that must be addressed at the local, state and federal level, and I am proud to lead the effort in Congress.” An estimated 50,000 non-native invasive animal and plant species have been introduced to the United States, costing more than $100 billion annually. Additionally, every state and U.S. territory has at least some form of invasive plant or animal tremendously impacting the natural biodiversity of our homes. Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced the Stamp Out Invasive Species Act which would direct USPS to issue a “Combating Invasive Species Semipostal Stamp.” Net proceeds from the sale of this stamp would be directed to the United States Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior for programs that work to combat invasive species. Additionally, Congresswoman Stefanik has introduced H. Res. ___ -- a resolution expressing the commitment of the House of Representatives to work to combat the nationwide problem of invasive species threatening native ecosystems. What They’re Saying: Fred Monroe, Executive Director of the Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board: “The Review Board applauds Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership in introducing a bill today expressing the commitment of the U.S. House of Representatives to work constructively to combat invasive species and the very serious threat they pose to the environment and economy of the nation and the Adirondack region. Her companion bill to create a semipostal stamp to benefit programs to fight invasive species will help meet the urgent need of volunteers, not-for-profits and local governments for funding to preempt and prevent the introduction and spread of invasives.” Lee Willbanks, Upper St. Lawrence Riverkeeper & Executive Director Save The River: "The St. Lawrence River, gateway to the Great Lakes, has long been negatively impacted by the unrelenting assault of aquatic invasive species and our watershed now faces unprecedented threats from terrestrial invasives. We, as a community dependent on our water and upland areas for tourism, hunting, fishing and recreation, have appreciated Congresswoman Stefanik's efforts, from her bi-national invasive species roundtable, to her efforts to prevent the rollback of ballast water regulations, to these two pieces of legislation one to provide additional funding and the other to commit Congress to the fight against further introductions of invasive species." Brendan Quirion, Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program Coordinator: “In the Adirondacks, local recreation and tourism based economies are reliant upon clean water and a healthy environment. Mitigating the impacts of invasive species is vitally important in sustaining this landscape into the future for both nature and people. The Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program appreciates Congresswoman Stefanik’s efforts to address the threats that invasive species pose to our region's economy and ecological heritage.” Original Cosponsors of this legislation include: Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY-27) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY-22) Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY-26) Rep. Peter King (R-NY-02) Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY-06) Rep. John Katko (R-NY-24) Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ-03) Rep. Madeleine Bordallo (D-Guam) Rep. Dan Benishek (R-MI-01) Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA-05) Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN-03) Rep. Robert Dold (R-IL-10) Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA-06) Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN-01) ###
05.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Support Our Military Caregivers Act unopposed by voice vote. This legislation authored by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) would reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Family Caregiver Program to help better support family members caring for seriously wounded veterans. Below is a transcript of Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks urging passage on the House floor, or for video click here. Mr. Speaker, I rise today regarding H.R. 3989, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act. After working with a constituent of mine who was having trouble with the bureaucratic Military Caregiver system at the VA, I was proud to introduce this legislation last November. Military caregivers are loved ones who selflessly care for our nation’s heroes behind the scenes to enhance their everyday lives. Thankfully, the Family Caregiver Program, implemented in 2011, was designed to ensure caregivers were not forgotten. My bill would guarantee that those who dedicate their lives as caregivers receive the support they so desperately need and they so desperately deserve. My district has the largest veteran population of any district in New York State – this has provided me with a greater understanding of the selfless sacrifice our veterans and their families provide to our community and our nation. Over the last 15 years of war, our servicemembers have served bravely and their families have sacrificed an immeasurable amount, so it is vital that we ensure they receive the best possible care available. Unfortunately, the VA has had a difficult time managing the high demand of Family Caregiver enrollees, which is much larger than originally accounted for. VA medical centers lack sufficient caregiver support coordinators and the necessary clinical staff to carry out medical assessments for eligibility. Application deadlines are not being met by their own internal standards and the staff is still shorthanded. This bill would ensure that military caregivers have access to an objective third party to conduct clinical reviews in the event of an appeal. It also ensures that the process is transparent so that our veterans and caregivers are never left with an unanswered question. Military caregivers are truly silent heroes in our communities and deserve the respect and benefits proportionate to their significant contributions. Mr. Speaker, I am truly humbled to represent the veterans in my district and will continue to work to improve their lives. I want to thank Chairman Benishek of the Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee for working with me on this legislation, as well as Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Brown for their leadership and bipartisan support of this bill. I urge all of my colleagues to support this important bill to improve the lives of our veterans and their caregivers. I yield back. Background: Stefanik Introduces Support Our Military Caregivers Act Stefanik Testifies Before VA Health Subcommittee on the Support Our Military Caregivers Act House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Passes Stefanik Veterans Caregiver Initiative House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Unanimously Passes Stefanik Veterans Caregiver Legislation ###
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Readiness, released the following statement after the House passed the FY17 NDAA last night: “I am proud of the bipartisan work done by my colleagues in the House on this critical legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our most important job in Congress is to provide for our national defense and this year’s NDAA takes important steps to strengthen our defense capabilities and give our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe. I am proud that the FY17 NDAA included initiatives that my office fought for to strengthen military readiness and Fort Drum." Stefanik Fights Back Against Troop Reductions Congresswoman Stefanik is a proud original cosponsor of the POSTURE Act, which ends the misguided draw down of troops and was included in this bill. “As the Vice-Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, I am committed to ensuring we have a land forces end-strength to face the world’s challenges and protect our nation,” said Stefanik. “The language included in this bill ensures the active duty Army does not fall below 480,000 personnel and will not be depleted as a result of this Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment.” Stefanik Provision Will Increase Military Readiness Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added a provision to this bill that will positively impact military readiness at installations like Ft. Drum by allowing for the procurement of equipment to expand the use of airspace around military installations. “I was proud to secure this important provision that will help installations like Wheeler-Sack Army Airfield – a state of the art airfield that facilitates the use of multiple aircraft,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Secures Next-Generation Multispectral Improved Camouflage Systems Congresswoman Stefanik successfully fought for a provision in the NDAA that significantly impacts military readiness by allowing for the Army to procure new next-generation multispectral improved camouflage systems. “These next-generation camouflage systems will help units like the 10th Mountain Division that train in cold and inclement weather,” said Stefanik. “We must equip our brave men and women who serve in harm’s way with the equipment to combat a wide spectrum of emerging foreign threats.” Stefanik Leads Fight Against 21st Century Threats Congresswoman Stefanik was able to include language into the NDAA that requires the Department of Defense to develop a strategy to combat the radicalization and recruitment of violent extremists online through social media and to develop a social media analytical capability. “The threats our nation faces on the 21st century battlefield continue to evolve and our nation’s defense capabilities must evolve too,” added Stefanik. “I am proud to lead the effort to combat the radicalization and recruitment of violent extremists online and thank my colleagues for their support for this critical provision.” Stefanik’s U.S./Israeli Security Cooperation Initiative Included Congresswoman Stefanik’s bipartisan legislation that would provide for the sharing of research and development costs between the United States and Israel to develop directed energy capabilities to detect and defeat ballistic missiles was added to the NDAA. “We live in an increasingly dangerous and unstable world and it is critical that we do all we can to protect our nation and our interests,” said Stefanik. “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and through greater cooperation we can more effectively combat threats facing our two nations. I am pleased that this important initiative was included in the NDAA that we passed out of the House.” ###
05.18.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today during floor debate for the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke in opposition to an amendment that was offered that would have limited the ability of the Department of Defense to use alternative energy. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. I stand today opposed to this amendment as the Representative of Fort Drum, an Army post that is 100% energy independent and self-sustainable, relying solely on biomass energy. Unfortunately, this amendment would impede military facilities like Drum from continuing to pursue energy solutions that enhance national security, training capabilities and operational flexibility. Fort Drum and the North Country serve as models for operating government facilities more efficiently—where ReEnergy, our alternative energy partner, positively affects the Army and has created 300 plus jobs throughout our community. Providing our military with resilient energy ensures our servicemembers remain able to respond to any threat at any time. DoD’s use of alternative energy strengthens their ability to conduct combat operations, humanitarian response and protects our national security. I urge my colleagues to vote NO on this amendment, which would have detrimental effects on alternative energy technologies that make our troops safer, increase combat effectiveness and severely undercut programs like those at Fort Drum. I yield back. ###
05.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs unanimously passed Congresswoman Stefanik’s legislation, H.R. 3989 -- the Support Our Military Caregivers Act. Congresswoman Stefanik introduced this bipartisan legislation in November of last year. “I thank Chairman Miller and the entire Committee for their work on this important legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. ““I was proud to introduce this important legislation after meeting with a constituent from Alexandria Bay who is a caregiver facing the burden of the VA backlog. Over the last 15 years of war, our servicemembers have bravely served our nation and their families have sacrificed an immeasurable amount -- so it is vital that we ensure they receive the best possible care. This is especially true for our military caregivers -- loved ones of our servicemembers who selflessly care for our heroes behind the scenes. Military caregivers are silent heroes in our communities and deserve the respect and benefits proportionate to their significant contributions.” Background: Stefanik Introduces Support Our Military Caregivers Act Stefanik Testifies Before VA Health Subcommittee on the Support Our Military Caregivers Act House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee Passes Stefanik Veterans Caregiver Initiative ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) joined Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13) and House Republican Leadership at a press conference to discuss her work to develop the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and the importance of funding our military readiness. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Thank you. I’m Elise Stefanik and I have the honor of representing New York’s 21st District, which is home to a critical Naval nuclear training facility and Fort Drum -- home of the 10th Mountain Division, the most-deployed division to Iraq and Afghanistan since 9/11. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice-Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, I am proud of the bipartisan work on the FY17 NDAA. This NDAA takes important steps to strengthen our defense capabilities and gives our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe. It also includes an important and deserved pay raise for our troops while working to stop funding gaps that are harming our military readiness. In addition, this bill includes important legislation that I cosponsored to ensure our armed forces’ end-strength will not be depleted as a result of this Administration’s misguided reduction of troops. I was proud to help this legislation pass out of Committee by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 60 to 2, and I look forward to helping the House secure passage of this vital legislation this week. Thank you. ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to recognize National Police Week on behalf of the residents of New York’s 21st District. Below is a transcript of Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks, or for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, in my district in the North Country of New York, brave law enforcement officers dedicate their careers and risk their lives each and every day to keep our community safe. We are grateful for the outstanding service from men and women like Sergeant Jay Cook of the New York State Police, whose courageous actions put an end to the manhunt for the killers who escaped Clinton Correctional Facility just last year. Sadly, far too many of these brave men and women have lost their lives in the line of duty. Each year communities across our nation gather in honor and recognition of these heroes, and tens of thousands of law enforcement officers descend on our nation’s Capital to honor the fallen. Mr. Speaker, in commemoration of National Police Week, I rise today to thank our brave law enforcement officers for their service, and to honor the brave men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice. Thank you, I yield back. ###
05.14.2016	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the announcement that USA Luge will keep its headquarters in Lake Placid, N.Y.: “This is fantastic news for our region and I commend USA Luge for this important decision,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In Lake Placid, we have a very unique Olympic history and I have been working aggressively to urge USA Luge to stay. This is why I visited the USA Luge facility in Lake Placid last summer and have met with community leaders across the region to discuss ways to keep USA Luge here. In addition, my office has met and coordinated with ROOST to provide them with a letter of support for their efforts at the state level to keep USA Luge. USA Luge knows there is no better place than Lake Placid for a great training climate, exceptional facilities and strong local support, and I commend them for this great decision.” ###
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 4640 -- the Veteran Suicide Prevention Act. This bipartisan legislation would direct the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to complete a publicly available review of the deaths of all covered veterans who died by suicide during the preceding five-year period. “The tragedy of our nation’s heroes taking their own lives must be stopped,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line in service to their nation, and we owe it to them to provide the best care possible when they leave the service. I am proud to cosponsor this important legislation in order to help us better fight this problem and take care of our veterans.” Background: Current data suggest that every 65 minutes a veteran takes his or her own life. There is currently no data which confirms or denies that there are any associations between suicide and medical treatments our veterans may be receiving for service-related conditions. Accordingly, this bill is a first step in determining whether or not there is a correlation. Legislative Specifics: This bill would direct the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to complete a publicly available review of the deaths of all covered veterans who died by suicide during the preceding five-year period. The review will include the total number of veterans who died by suicide during the five-year period; a list of the medications prescribed to, and found in the systems of, such veterans at the time of their deaths, and a summary of medical diagnoses by VA physicians which led to the prescribing of such medications; and a description of VA policies governing the prescribing of medications. ###
05.12.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 5046 -- the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act. This bipartisan legislation would address the four corners of addiction: prevention, treatment, recovery, and law enforcement. It would provide an expansive framework for tackling this crisis, including expanded prevention and education efforts to prevent abuse, increased resources for law enforcement and first responders, and additional resources for drug courts, veterans’ treatment courts, and other non-prison diversion programs. “Heroin abuse touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The legislation we have passed this week takes critical steps to prevent drug abuse, give law enforcement the tools they need to combat it and give communities and health professionals resources for treatment. These efforts are not the end of the House’s work on this issue— we will continue to seek innovative solutions to this crisis that has touched families across my district and across our nation.” Background: Addiction to prescription painkillers, heroin, and other forms of opioids has increased at an alarming rate in recent years. The number of Americans addicted to heroin is nearly three times higher than a decade ago. In 2013, over 40,000 Americans died from a drug overdose, nearly 2 million Americans were addicted to opioid-based prescription painkillers, and over 500,000 were addicted to heroin. H.R. 5046 – Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act Summary: The bill creates a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program at the Department of Justice, which will direct federal resources for drug abuse programs directly at the opioid problem. This bill will give states and localities flexibility to attack opioid abuse issues unique to their communities. The bill establishes a streamlined, yet comprehensive opioid abuse grant program that encompasses a variety of new and existing programs, such as training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, drug courts, and residential substance abuse treatment. H.R. 5046 authorizes the appropriation of $103 million annually over the 2017-2021 period for the Department of Justice (DOJ) to make grants to state, local, and tribal governments for programs to combat opioid abuse. H.R. 5046 is fully offset from reductions in existing programs. The result is no net increase in spending authorizations. Additional Information: Stefanik Speaks on Devastating Heroin and Opioid Epidemic on House Floor Stefanik on Medium: Combating the Tragic Heroin & Opioid Abuse Epidemic Katko, Stefanik join efforts to stem heroin, synthetic drug abuse (Commentary) ###
05.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the Environmental Protection Agency’s announcement of $200,000 for green job training in Glens Falls, N.Y.: “This is great news for Glens Falls and for our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This important funding will help those seeking work get the training they need to compete in the cutting edge clean energy field, helping people get back to work while promoting these energy sources in our region. I commend the EPA for prioritizing this important project.” ###
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) joined a bipartisan group of her House colleagues to speak on the need to address the heroin and opioid epidemic impacting New York’s 21st District and communities across the country. This week, Congresswoman Stefanik will be helping the House advance a series of measures aimed at combating this problem. Below is a transcript of Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks on the House floor, or for video, click here. Over the last fifteen years, heroin-related deaths have quadrupled, leaving families and communities across this country shattered. This crisis has been felt acutely in my district where the region is a major pipeline for illicit drug trafficking. Last November, law enforcement in Washington County, New York, made eleven arrests in one morning of individuals illegally selling heroin, cocaine and prescription drugs. In New York’s North Country, I have seen and heard from those in recovery and those still struggling that heroin addiction and prescription drug abuse is a life-long challenge. In my district, heroin addiction tragedies have caused parents to bury their children, left spouses widowed and young children parentless. These drugs reach out and impact even the strongest members of our communities. Addiction is a disease that does not discriminate. The support offered by treatment centers like St. Joseph’s Addiction Treatment & Recovery Center in Saranac Lake is critical to those who suffer from this disease. Several veterans who I had the opportunity to visit with at St. Joseph’s have seen the harsh reality of war and are now fighting battles at home: one against heroin and opioid addiction, and another against Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Heroin abuse touches our communities, our homes and our families in ways that have grave effects on everyday people and everyday lives. As heroin use has increased, police departments across this nation have seen a rapid rise in related crimes, such as sex trafficking, domestic disputes, larceny, burglary and prostitution -- all tied to heroin-use. This week I’m honored to stand with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to advance legislative solutions to this widespread and insidious crisis. As a member of Representatives Guinta and Kuster’s Bipartisan Task Force to combat heroin abuse and assist law enforcement efforts, we have worked tirelessly to find solutions. The legislation we present this week provides critical tools to medical personnel and law enforcement for stemming the flow of drugs and enhancing treatment options and availability. These are real problems that need to be addressed through innovation, cooperation and thoughtful action. I am confident we can secure a better, heroin free future for our nation’s children. These efforts are not the end of the House’s work on this issue— we will continue to seek innovative solutions to this crisis that has touched families across my district and across our nation. On behalf of the families, communities and veterans in New York’s 21st Congressional District and across the country, I urge my colleagues to join those of us here tonight as we work to eliminate the heroin epidemic facing this country. ###
05.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) promoted Small Business Week in the North Country with visits at Green Goddess Natural Market and High Peaks Cyclery in Lake Placid. “I grew up in a small business family and know how critical these institutions are for our communities,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Small business week is a great opportunity to visit our local small business and I encourage all North Country families to ‘shop small’ at local businesses like Green Goddess and High Peaks Cyclery. I will continue to work in Congress on smart policies to help our small businesses thrive.” Congresswoman Stefanik is working in Congress to achieve comprehensive tax and regulatory reform. Last year she helped the House pass the REINS Act that would rein in the out of control federal rule making process and help make it easier for businesses to grow. At the end of 2015, Congresswoman Stefanik helped pass a series of tax provisions including a permanent tax rule on business expensing and a provision making the R&D tax credit permanent. ###
05.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the Environmental Protection Agency’s announcement of $1.5 million in New York grants through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative to combat invasive species, including $500,000 to Paul Smith’s College: “Invasive species threaten the health and beauty of our natural habitats and we must work together at the federal, state and local levels to combat these predators,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This important funding will help preserve the Great Lakes for generations to come, and I was pleased to recently help the House pass legislation to reauthorize this important program.” On April 26th, with Congresswoman Stefanik’s support, the House passed H.R. 223 – the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2016 – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored to reauthorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). ###
05.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Rishabh Bisht of Elizabethtown-Lewis Central School has won the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for his piece Failure to Appear. “I am excited to announce that Rishabh’s winning entry will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol for visitors from around the world to see,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The North Country is home to many gifted artists and I thank all who participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition.” Rishabh’s piece was one of three finalists that were selected from over 60 pieces submitted to Congresswoman Stefanik’s Watertown, Plattsburgh and Glens Falls offices. The final winner was chosen by voting on Congresswoman Stefanik’s Facebook page. ###
05.03.2016	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 2992 – the Merchant Marine of World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act. “The Merchant Mariners served their country honorably during World War II, supporting our troops in combat zones and engaging in battles themselves,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These brave Americans deserve the tribute of a grateful nation, and I am proud to support this legislation to award the Merchant Mariners of World War II with the Congressional Gold Medal -- the highest civilian award that can be bestowed on an individual by the United States Congress.” Background: Merchant Mariners were pulled into World War II by FDR in 1941. They engaged in multiple battles as they delivered supplies to combat zones around the world. Their charge was dangerous enough that the Merchant Mariners suffered the highest casualty rate (relative to their population) of any branch of the service in WWII. The Merchant Marine are seeking the Congressional Gold Medal Act for those who served in WWII. This would honor their service in support of the Allied Powers. This bill would require the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the award, on behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal to the U.S. Merchant Marine of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital service during World War II. ###
04.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Following her testimony before the House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee last week, today the Subcommittee unanimously passed her bill, H.R. 3989 -- the Support Our Military Caregivers Act. Congresswoman Stefanik introduced this bipartisan legislation in November of last year. “I was proud to introduce this important legislation after meeting with a constituent from Alexandria Bay who is a caregiver facing the burden of the VA backlog,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Over the last 15 years of war, our servicemembers have bravely served our nation and their families have sacrificed an immeasurable amount -- so it is vital that we ensure they receive the best possible care. This is especially true for our military caregivers -- loved ones of our servicemembers who selflessly care for our heroes behind the scenes. Military caregivers are silent heroes in our communities and deserve the respect and benefits proportionate to their significant contributions.” Background: The Family Caregiver Program, mandated by Congress in 2010, was designed to help support family members caring for seriously-wounded veterans in the post-9/11 era. Major features of the program include providing medical support for caregivers, who often suffer from health problems as they focus on the veteran's well-being, and providing stipends to compensate caregivers' time. This program is currently experiencing delays in approval of benefits. Caregivers who are denied eligibility for the program or believe the Veteran's rating is not appropriate may appeal such decisions with the VA Medical Centers (VAMC) with the assistance of VA Caregiver Support Coordinators. VA officials originally estimated that approximately 4,000 family caregivers would be approved for the program by this time. However, there were 15,600 approved with another 14,800 applications remaining. This unanticipated deluge has overwhelmed staff allocated for the program, causing a backlog. For example, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that some VA facilities were not returning caregiver phone calls. To further complicate the problem, family caregivers who have been denied program benefits are now filing appeals, leaving the VA with two issues: The inability to process the flood of caregiver applications; and An expanding backlog of appeals filed by frustrated caregivers Whether the decisions received by appealing veterans are favorable or not, they should be timely, fair, impartial and accurate. While proposals by the VA Department will help, it appears that a substantial transformation of processes and clinical reviews are still needed to significantly reduce the amount of time veterans wait for decisions on their appeals. Immediate and effective relief is required as continued delays will only increase as the number of mounting appeals. Congresswoman Stefanik’s bill, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act, would ensure that new or modified processes and systems are veteran-centric, outcomes-based and continually improved through the use of best practices. This would be done by directing the Department of Veterans Affairs to contract with a third party in order to streamline claims and reduce the Caregiver backlog. During the markup, Congressman Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) offered an amendment in the nature of a substitute to strengthen the bill, confirming that the VA was the final decision making authority and that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) must conduct a second review of the program. The amendment was adopted. ###
04.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Readiness, released the following statement after the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY2017 was passed by the Committee by a vote of 60-2: “Our most important job in Congress is to provide for our national defense and this year’s NDAA takes important steps to strengthen our defense capabilities and give our brave men and women in uniform the resources they need to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. "I am proud that the FY17 NDAA included initiatives that my office fought for to strengthen military readiness and Fort Drum." Stefanik Provision Will Increase Military Readiness Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added a provision to this bill that will positively impact military readiness at installations like Ft. Drum by allowing for the procurement of equipment to expand the use of airspace around military installations. “I was proud to secure this important provision that will help installations like Wheeler-Sack Army Airfield – a state of the art airfield that facilitates the use of multiple aircraft,” added Stefanik. Stefanik Secures Next-Generation Multispectral Improved Camouflage Systems Congresswoman Stefanik successfully fought for a provision in the NDAA that significantly impacts military readiness by allowing for the Army to procure new next-generation multispectral improved camouflage systems. “These next-generation camouflage systems will help units like the 10th Mountain Division that train in cold and inclement weather,” said Stefanik. “We must equip our brave men and women who serve in harm’s way with the equipment to combat a wide spectrum of emerging foreign threats.” Stefanik Leads Fight Against 21st Century Threats Congresswoman Stefanik was able to include language into the NDAA that requires the Department of Defense to develop a strategy to combat the radicalization and recruitment of violent extremists online through social media and to develop a social media analytical capability. “The threats our nation faces on the 21st century battlefield continue to evolve and our nation’s defense capabilities must evolve too,” added Stefanik. “I am proud to lead the effort to combat the radicalization and recruitment of violent extremists online and thank my colleagues for their support for this critical provision.” Stefanik Fights Back Against Troop Reductions Congresswoman Stefanik is a proud original cosponsor of the POSTURE Act, which ends the misguided draw down of troops. “As the Vice-Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, I am committed to ensuring we have a land forces end-strength to face the world’s challenges and protect our nation,” said Stefanik. “The language included in this bill ensures the active duty Army does not fall below 480,000 personnel and will not be depleted as a result of this Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment.” Stefanik’s U.S./Israeli Security Cooperation Initiative Included Congresswoman Stefanik’s bipartisan legislation that would provide for the sharing of research and development costs between the United States and Israel to develop directed energy capabilities to detect and defeat ballistic missiles was added to the NDAA during markup. “We live in an increasingly dangerous and unstable world and it is critical that we do all we can to protect our nation and our interests,” said Stefanik. “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and through greater cooperation we can more effectively combat threats facing our two nations. I am pleased that this important initiative was included in the NDAA that we passed out of the House Armed Services’ Committee and I look forward to helping secure passage on the House floor.” ###
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 699 -- The Email Privacy Act – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored that will modernize the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) to protect Americans’ privacy and provide law enforcement with tools needed for its investigations. “This important legislation modernizes our laws to keep pace with 21st century technologies,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Technology has changed dramatically since the ECPA was written in 1986 and we must keep our privacy laws current to protect Americans’ Constitutional rights while ensuring our law enforcement has the tools they need to keep the public safe.” Summary of H.R. 699: The Email Privacy Act modernizes ECPA to protect Americans’ privacy and provide law enforcement with tools needed for its investigations. It currently has over 300 cosponsors. Below are key provisions of the bill. Warrant requirement: The bill creates a uniform warrant standard for law enforcement to obtain the content of communications in criminal investigations. ECPA warrants will continue to be executed with the provider since, as with any other third-party custodian, the information is stored with them. It allows the provider to notify its customers of receipt of a warrant, court order, or subpoena, unless the provider is court ordered to delay such notification. Remote Computing Services: The bill maintains current law that delineates which remote computing service providers – or cloud providers – are subject to the warrant requirement for content in a criminal investigation. ECPA has traditionally imposed heightened legal process and procedures to obtain information for which the customer has a reasonable expectation of privacy, namely emails, texts, photos, videos, and documents stored in the cloud. Allows Law Enforcement to Access Public Information: ECPA currently makes no distinction between content disclosed to the public, like an advertisement on a website, versus content disclosed only to one or a handful of persons, like an email or text message. The result is that law enforcement would be required to obtain a warrant even for publicly-disclosed content. The bill clarifies that commercial public content can be obtained with a process other than a warrant. Maintains Congress’s investigative power: The bill clarifies that nothing in the law limits Congress’s subpoena authority to obtain information from third parties in furtherance of congressional oversight. ###
04.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 223 – Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2016 – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored to reauthorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). “I am pleased to help the House pass this legislation that is critical to the health of our waters,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Invasive Species Caucus, I am continuing to work at the federal level to raise awareness and work towards solutions to protect our natural ecology and our environment. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is an important, bipartisan program to protect these natural treasures and prevent and control invasive species and their impacts on these natural habitats.” ###
04.21.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) hosted a ceremony in Washington, D.C. at the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing room to present the family of First Lieutenant Elmer Jebo -- a constituent from Tupper Lake – with a Silver Star that he was awarded by the U.S. Army but never received. Earlier this week, Congresswoman Stefanik honored Lieutenant Jebo’s service on the House floor. “One of the most important jobs of a Member of Congress is representing the veterans in their district – and I’m proud to represent the district with the most veterans of any in New York State,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Lieutenant Jebo bravely served his country in campaigns across Italy and I am humbled to present the Silver Star to the family of this American hero -- it is a rare and unique honor.” Click here for video of the today’s ceremony. For higher resolution photos, contact Tom Flanagin at tom.flanagin@mail.house.gov. Background: Elmer Hiram Jebo was born on January 14, 1914, in St. Regis Falls, New York to Fred Jebo and Carrie Rivers Jebo of Conifer, New York. He attended Tupper Lake High School and graduated in 1932. He starred in football and basketball at Tupper Lake High School and attended Syracuse University on a football scholarship. After graduating in 1938, he taught at Adams Center High School where in addition to his teaching duties he was athletic director, football coach and baseball coach until 1940. In 1940, Elmer was drafted into the U.S. Army and following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, was accepted into Officer Candidate School. On June 4, 1942, he married Phyllis Edna Wright of Saratoga Springs, New York, before he was deployed overseas to Europe. Elmer participated in the military campaigns in Sicily, Naples-Foggia and Rome-Arno as a First Lieutenant and Unit Combat Commander. He was awarded the “Bronze Star” while with the 180th Infantry Regiment on October 27, 1943, for “exemplary conduct in action against the enemy.” His unit participated in the Anzio invasion in 1944 and he was awarded the “Silver Star” on February 24, 1944, while serving as Commander of L Company. He was severely wounded on May 26, 1944, and as a result of his wounds, lost his right leg. He was brought back to the United States and spent many months at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington in recovery and rehabilitation. He was awarded a Purple Heart medal as a result of those injuries. On July 21, 1945, Elmer retired from the U.S. Army due to his disability. He was a First Lieutenant at the time of his retirement. Elmer went to work in Washington with the Department of Labor in 1945. He was a senior manager with the Manpower Administration in the Department of Labor and was involved in several major labor strikes during the 1960s including the famous dispute between United Farm Workers and the Teamster Union. He and Phyllis moved to Alexandria, Virginia, and raised three sons, Donald R. Jebo, Jerry K. Jebo and Steven W. Jebo. He was active with the Disabled American Veterans and served on several Presidential committees on veterans’ rights during the 1950s and 1960s. Both Phyllis and he were involved with the Trinity Methodist Church of Alexandria, Virginia. Following his retirement, Elmer and Phyllis moved to Radford, Virginia. Phyllis died on October 4, 2000, and Elmer died on August 22, 2001. ###
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) testified at a House Veterans’ Affairs Health Subcommittee hearing on her legislation, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act, which help better support family members caring for seriously wounded veterans. This bipartisan legislation was introduced following a meeting with a constituent from Alexandria Bay who is a caregiver of a wounded warrior and shared with Congresswoman Stefanik the challenges she faces as the sole caregiver for her hero. Below is a transcript of Congresswoman Stefanik’s testimony before the Committee, or for video, click here. Chairman Benishek, Ranking Member Brownley, thank you for the invitation to testify on this important legislation. I truly appreciate the opportunity to appear before you and look forward to discussing this key issue. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee with a critical Army base and Navy nuclear training facility located in my district, I am dedicated to providing support to servicemembers, veterans and their families. Since September 11th, 2001, the Army’s 10th Mountain Division at Fort Drum has been the most actively forward deployed division in the Global War on Terror. Over the last 15 years of war, our servicemembers have bravely served our nation and their families have sacrificed an immeasurable amount -- so it is vital that we ensure they receive the best possible care. This is especially true for our military caregivers -- loved ones of our servicemembers who selflessly care for our heroes behind the scenes. These men and women are often left out when discussing veterans’ issues. Military caregivers are an essential component of the communal and family support system for our disabled veterans. They are usually spouses and other family members who spend their days transporting and caring for disabled veterans in order to provide an environment that enhances their everyday lives. In 2010, Congress passed a law implementing the Family Caregiver Program. This was an important piece of legislation that made veterans who sustained injuries in the line of duty eligible for a package of benefits that includes access to a primary caregiver. These benefits would ensure that the family members who dedicate their lives as caregivers receive access to health care, caregiver training, and stipends for additional costs associated with their disabled veteran. Unfortunately, the Department of Veterans’ Affairs has had a difficult time managing the high demand of Family Caregiver enrollees, which is much larger than originally accounted for during implementation. According to the Government Accountability Office, VA officials estimated that they would receive 4,000 enrollees and staffed the program based on this estimate. However, in the first few months of implementation there were over 15,000 enrollees to the Family Caregiver Program. VA medical centers lack sufficient caregiver support coordinators and the necessary clinical staff to carry out medical assessments for eligibility for this program. These implementation issues have led to a delay in both the application and the appeals process. Application deadlines are not being met by their own internal standards and the staff is still shorthanded. These issues are not only unacceptable, but I believe they are preventable. And after meeting with a constituent who is a caregiver facing the burden of the VA backlog, I introduced H.R. 3989, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act. This bill would use pre-existing funds already appropriated for the current review and appeals process, to then allow for an objective, independent party to conduct external, clinical reviews. This bill would ensure that new or modified processes are veteran-centric, outcomes-based and continually improved through the use of best practices. We can accomplish this by permitting a third party to work within the VA to streamline claims and reduce the caregiver backlog through a more clinical analysis rather than benefits adjudication. The VA would maintain this third party until appeals are streamlined and the backlog is down to an acceptable rate and addresses the issues highlighted by the GAO. Military caregivers are silent heroes in our communities and deserve the respect and benefits proportionate to their significant contributions. I would also like to highlight that this legislation is supported both by the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and the American Veterans I look forward to discussing this issue further in order to implement a solution and get our military caregivers the benefits they deserve. ###
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to honor First Lieutenant Elmer Jebo -- a constituent from Tupper Lake who served during World War II. On Thursday, April 21st, Congresswoman Stefanik will be hosting the family of First Lieutenant Elmer Jebo in a ceremony in Washington and presenting them with a Silver Star that he earned but never received. Below is a transcript of Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks on the House floor, or for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor an extraordinary hero from Tupper Lake in my district. First Lieutenant Elmer Jebo was drafted into the Army in 1940 where he would participate in military campaigns across Italy. On February 2st, 1944, during the Anzio Invasion, his position was attacked by six enemy tanks. For his bravery under siege and his courageous conduct to repel these attacks, he was awarded the Silver Star and the Purple Heart by the U.S. Army. Unfortunately, because of significant wounds sustained in combat, Lieutenant Jebo spent many months recovering at Walter Reed Medical Center and never received his medal - he has since passed. After his family reached out to our office, I’m honored that we were able to play a small part in preserving the legacy of this North Country hero. This Thursday my office will host his family at a ceremony in Washington, D.C. to present them with Lieutenant Jebo’s much deserved Silver Star. And today I am honored to recognize Lieutenant Jebo’s heroic service on the House floor. Thank you, I yield back. Please contact Tom Flanagin (tom.flanagin@mail.house.gov) if your media outlet would like photos of the ceremony on Thursday. ###
04.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the announcement of a $10,895,537.00 grant from the Department of Transportation for the runway extension at Ogdensburg International Airport. “This is great news for Ogdensburg and our region,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am pleased that the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority continues to make progress on this important project that would significantly help our local economy. The runway extension plan at Ogdensburg International Airport would help facilitate low fare airline service to the region, expanding commerce, tourism and our local economy.” After the proposed expansion, the airport will support between 125 and 135 jobs, compared to 53 in 2010. In addition, the total amount of direct and indirect economic activity that Ogdensburg International Airport produces could nearly double by 2017. The runway expansion will also bring an estimated 38,000 new passengers and their resources into the North Country. ###
04.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Chair of the House Republican Policy Committee’s Millennial Taskforce, held a hearing on “College Completion, Flexibility and Affordability for an emerging generation.” Among those testifying before the committee was Lauren Kent, a student from Jefferson Community College. “As the first member of my immediate family to graduate from college, the issue of college affordability and accessibility is a top priority of mine,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The millennial generation in our country is being crushed by soaring college costs and student loan debt, and as lawmakers, we must find solutions to address affordability and flexibility in higher education. Today’s hearing was an important opportunity to hear about the educational challenges facing the millennial generation. It is critical that we find solutions to this crisis. “I was pleased that we were joined by Lauren Kent from Jefferson Community College. As a millennial, non-traditional student, a veteran of the United States Navy, the wife of a soldier stationed at Fort Drum and a mother of three children, Lauren brought a valuable insight to our hearing and I thank her for joining us today.” Photos from the hearing can be located here. ###
03.30.2016	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released her office’s Grants and Federal Domestic Assistance Guide – a step-by-step guide for North Country constituents and organizations for locating and securing federal funding. “My offices are ready to serve our community, and one important way we can help is by assisting with the federal grants process,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Securing federal funding can be an arduous and complicated task, and this new grants guide aims to streamline the process, making it easier for North Country organizations to get funding for critical projects. I am pleased my office has been able to help organizations across our district secure needed funding and look forward to continuing to provide this important service.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s grant guide can be found here. For further questions about the federal grant process, or for assistance, individuals can contact her offices in Glens Falls, Watertown and Plattsburgh. Congresswoman Stefanik’s offices have submitted over 130 letters of support for federal grants. ###
03.28.2016	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that the Department of Justice is resuming payments made to local law enforcement agencies through the Equitable Sharing Program: “This is great news for the North Country as our local law enforcement depends on these critical funds to keep our community safe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Providing law enforcement with the tools they need is important for public safety and crime prevention, and I will continue to work to make sure these critical funds are available.” The Department of Justice’s Equitable Sharing program splits assets seized under civil forfeiture laws with local and state law enforcement. Congresswoman Stefanik has been working with local Sheriffs to resolve the suspension of this program. ###
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 4336 – the Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act. Congresswoman Stefanik is an original cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation that would overturn a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army rescinding inurnment eligibility for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) pilots, which they have had since 2002. “The brave women who stepped up to serve our nation during World War II deserve the respect of a grateful country,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The WASP flew 60 million miles of operation flights on behalf in service to their nation, and I am proud to vote today to give these American trailblazers the honor they have earned.” Read more about this legislation here. ###
03.21.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to celebrate the 200th Anniversary of the Founding of SUNY Potsdam. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. M. Speaker, today I rise to celebrate a tremendous milestone for a school in my district, The State University of New York at Potsdam. On March 25th, 1816, the document that would establish what is now known as SUNY Potsdam was signed, making it one of our nation’s first 50 colleges and the oldest institution in the SUNY system. Since that time, this school has developed a well-deserved reputation for providing a top flight education, especially in the liberal arts and science fields, and is the proud home of the world-renowned Crane School of Music which I toured last year. As the Co-Chair of the Congressional STEAM Caucus, I’m proud that SUNY Potsdam is leading the way in incorporating the Arts into the traditional Science, Engineering and Math curriculum. M. Speaker, it is my honor to stand on the House floor today to commemorate the 200th Anniversary of the Founding of SUNY Potsdam. ###
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, in celebration of Women’s History Month, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to honor the legacy of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, born in Johnstown, New York. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. M. Speaker, in celebration of Women’s History Month, today I rise to honor a pioneer for women’s suffrage from my district. Elizabeth Cady Stanton was born in Johnstown, New York where she attended Johnstown Academy until the age of 16. As Members of this House and people across our country know, Elizabeth would go on to be one of the true trailblazers of the women’s suffrage movement for our nation. She helped organize the Seneca Falls Convention where she presented a Declaration of Sentiments – a call for women’s rights proclaiming that men and women are equal, which was a revolutionary concept in 1848. As the Youngest Woman ever elected to Congress, I certainly would not be here today on the House floor without the passion, dedication and activism of Elizabeth Cady Stanton. And so it is my honor to celebrate her legacy today for Women’s History Month. Thank you and I yield back. ###
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Tom MacArthur (R-NJ-03) and Donald Norcross (D-NJ-01) introduced bipartisan legislation that would provide for the sharing of research and development costs between the United States and Israel to develop directed energy capabilities to detect and defeat ballistic missiles. These directed energy capabilities would detect and defeat ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, unmanned aerial vehicles, mortars and improvised explosive devices that threaten the United States, our forces overseas and Israel. “We live in an increasingly dangerous and unstable world and it is critical that we do all we can to protect our nation and our interests,” said Congresswoman Stefanik (NY-21). “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and through greater cooperation we can more effectively combat threats facing our two nations. I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation that will help ensure greater security for the United States and Israel.” “Today’s rapidly evolving threats have changed our approach to national security both at home, and abroad,” said Congressman MacArthur (NJ-03). “We must make vital investments in missile defense and further expand our partnership with Israel in this field which has made great strides in recent years, and will offer the U.S. and Israel a less expensive and highly capable defense system. As our closest ally in a highly unstable part of the world, Israel faces countless threats and challenges to her very existence, including the ballistic missile testing conducted by Iran last week which included the insult “Israel should be wiped off the earth” written in Hebrew on one of the missiles. It is abundantly clear that there is no time to waste in helping to improve the defense of both the US and Israel.” “This legislation will provide vital tools at a critical time for the United States and our ally, Israel. In an uncertain world, we must work collectively with our friends in Israel and take prudent actions to defend ourselves from the very real threats we face together,” said Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01). The intent of this legislation is similar to the U.S./Israel agreement signed on March 5, 2014, concerning Iron Dome defense procurement. This legislation would stipulate details of U.S. coproduction of directed energy components in the United States with Israel and support a 50/50 work share which would allow Israel to further its defenses against growing threats and allow the United States to share those capabilities in theater and the Homeland. Click here for text of this legislation. ###
03.16.2016	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 4596 -- the Small Business Broadband Deployment Act. This bipartisan legislation protects small businesses from burdensome requirements in the FCC’s Open Internet Order that affects smaller Internet Service Providers. This legislation also increases the threshold to protect more small internet service providers that have up to 250,000 subscribers, an increase from 100,000. “Expanding access to rural broadband is critical to ensuring the North Country can compete in a 21st Century economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan legislation protects our local internet service providers from burdensome FCC requirements, helping North Country families and businesses’ access to broadband service.” Small businesses that would be affected by this legislation include the Nicholville Telephone Company in Nicholville, the Champlain Telephone Company in Rouses Point, Crown Point Network Technologies, Inc. in Crown Point, Chazy & Westport/Westelcom in Westport, and Rainmaker Network Services in Chestertown. This legislation passed the House today by a vote of 411-0. ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C – Today, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of her support for pro-jobs, pro-growth policies in the first session of the 114th Congress. “We are pleased to recognize Congresswoman Stefanik for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” “Promoting economic growth and job creation is my top priority in Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I will continue to advocate for policies that will help North Country families and businesses, and I thank the U.S. Chamber for this great honor.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Congresswoman Stefanik received a 100 percent rating for her voting record in the 1st Session of the 114th Congress. ###
03.10.2016	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement after Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau Thursday endorsed the U.S.-Canada preclearance agreement to expedite travel and strengthen trade and national security between the two countries: “This is welcome news for U.S.-Canadian relations and I look forward to continuing to work to implement this landmark agreement,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The North Country is heavily impacted by U.S.-Canadian relations through travel, commerce and border security. We must continue to work to solidify and move forward the agreement between the U.S. and Canada, which was reached nearly a year ago, and I am proud to be a lead sponsor of the bipartisan, bicameral legislation to do this in Congress.” Last week, Congresswoman Stefanik, along with Sens. Schumer and Gillibrand, introduced H.R. 4657 -- the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016 -- legislation to solidify the preclearance agreement between the U.S. and Canada. ###
03.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 21st district. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 21st District. “The North Country is home to many gifted students and the Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to showcase their talents,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Last year we received over 50 amazing entries from all parts of the district and I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions. The winner of this competition will have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year where it will be seen by visitors from around the world.” Artwork entered in the contest must be original in execution, may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches, 4 inches in depth and cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. The artwork may be: Paintings - including oil, acrylics and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage (must be 2 dimensional) Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints Mixed Media – use of two or more mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor Computer Generated Art Photography Art submissions along with a Congressional release form must be submitted to one of Congresswoman Stefanik’s district office locations no later than April 22, 2016. The Congressional release form can be found here and more information about the competitions rules and guidelines is posted here. ###
03.02.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor following the introduction of H.R. 4657 -- the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016. Congresswoman Stefanik spoke on the importance of increasing commerce with our Canadian neighbors. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. In my district in Northern New York, Canada is more than just a bordering nation; they are our neighbors and our friends. Canadians and Upstate New Yorkers enjoy their summers together fishing along the St. Lawrence River, golfing on Wellesley Island, visiting the Thousand Islands National Park and exploring Boldt castle. Plattsburgh, a city in my district, has even branded itself as Montreal's “U.S. Suburb,” hosting more than 100 U.S. subsidiaries of Canadian companies, with 15 percent of its area workforce working for a Canadian or border-related employer. That is why I helped lead the effort and support the Promoting Travel, Commerce and National Security Act -- a necessary step to solidify the preclearance agreement between the U.S. and Canada, which was reached nearly a year ago. This significant, bipartisan legislation is great news for U.S.-Canadian relations, and I strongly encourage my colleagues to cosponsor this vital piece of legislation to maintain a secure Northern border and facilitate travel and commerce between the U.S. and Canada, and benefit our Upstate New York economy. I yield back. ###
03.01.2016	U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and U.S. Representative Elise Stefanik today announced legislation that would bring the pre-clearance program that more easily allows Canadians to travel to the North Country and Capital Region one step closer to reality. The Senators and Congresswoman explained that the bill they are introducing and pushing in Congress, the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016, would expand U.S. jurisdiction over the American Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents that are operating in Canada, pursuant to border security agreements. Schumer, Gillibrand and Stefanik said this would ensure American citizens and federal government workers are subject to U.S. law and legal protections when working at the pre-clearance location just across the border in Canada, where they would be working to pre-clear passengers traveling on Amtrak’s Adirondack line from Montreal which stops in the North Country and Albany. The Senators and Congresswoman said that, right now, passengers on this line are stopped at the border – oftentimes for more than an hour – while CBP clears the entire train, making the trip longer and a more arduous process. Schumer, Gillibrand and Stefanik said making the trip from Montreal through the North Country and Capital Region would not only boost travel efficiency, but also increase tourism opportunities for local businesses in New York. “Implementing pre-clearance for passenger trains traveling between New York and Canada will be critical to both increasing efficiency and economic opportunities for the North Country and Capital Region – and clearing these legal hurdles now will better pave the way to making this prescreening program a reality. This legislation will bring us one step closer to reducing horrible wait times and boosting tourism opportunities for local businesses for years to come,” said Senator Schumer. “I am urging my colleagues in Congress to pass this bill, which will allow the North Country to continue as an economic artery for Northern New York, pumping in vital investment and growth for a generation.” “As one of the busiest passenger crossings in the country, safety and efficiency are critical in connecting the U.S. with Canada,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Making the pre-inspection at the Peace Bridge permanent would enhance the security of the transfer of goods and services across the border. The safeguards provided by the legislation would help move along this critical process that will boost New York’s economy especially in the North Country and preserve our economic links with Canada.” “This significant, bipartisan legislation is great news for U.S.-Canadian relations and will go a long way to benefit our Upstate New York economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Increasing commerce with our Canadian neighbors is a top economic priority for our region, and this legislation will help build increased economic ties while supporting travel, commerce and tourism between our two nations as well. Furthermore, this legislation will help build integrated defense capabilities to maintain a secure Northern border. Importantly for the North Country, this legislation will facilitate Amtrak service from Montreal through our district, and will reinforce the future of small border crossings by allowing the option of joint operations on one side or the other. This is a landmark piece of legislation for U.S. and Canadian relations and I look forward to helping move it through Congress.” “Nothing is more important to the North Country economy than our relationship with Canada, and the North Country Chamber has no higher priority in Washington and Ottawa this year than approval of the preclearance agreement negotiated between the U.S. and Canada,” states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. “Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Congresswoman Stefanik continue to show real leadership in valuing and nurturing our cross border relationship and so it is no surprise they are among the original sponsors of the Senate and House bills which will provide U.S. approval to this historic agreement. This agreement will allow common sense solutions to challenges such as how to speed cross border Amtrak service, how to enhance processing at major crossings with tight space such as Massena-Cornwall, and how to secure the long term future of our smaller border crossings through sharing. Onward and upward for our U.S.-Canadian connections!” The Senators and Congresswoman said clearing this next legal hurdle is needed in order to make the pre-clearance program a reality. Schumer, Gillibrand and Stefanik said making this program a reality is the critical next step in reducing Amtrak train delays at the Canada-New York border and increasing tourism revenue opportunities for North Country and Capital Region businesses. Schumer, Gillibrand and Stefanik said providing the legal authority to help make this program possible is the next step in moving toward full implementation of passenger train pre-clearance. By pre-screening passengers and trains on the Canadian side of the border, it will reduce wait times and increase economic opportunities on the American side. The Senators and Congresswoman said this would greatly improve commerce between businesses on both sides of the border. Click here to view Congresswoman Stefanik's remarks on the House Floor in support of H.R. 4657. ###
02.26.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, at a House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness hearing, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) questioned witnesses on the status of the pending transfer of 24 Apache helicopters to Fort Drum. Congresswoman Stefanik led the effort to include language in the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure an on time transfer and today Army officials confirmed during the hearing that Fort Drum will receive the Apaches on schedule this summer. Click here to watch video of Congresswoman Stefanik’s questions. ###
02.25.2016	Washington, D.C.– At a House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel hearing last night, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) questioned witnesses on what the Defense Health Agency is doing to resolve the bureaucratic challenges facing facilities like Carthage Area Hospital, as well as what actions are being taken to ensure hospital reimbursement levels are determined in a transparent manner. Click here to watch video of Congresswoman Stefanik’s questions. ###
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) took to the House floor to recognize and celebrate the Centennial of the Farm Credit System – a critical network of institutions for North Country and American agriculture. Congresswoman Stefanik recently met with Rocky Giroux of Plattsburgh, Laurie Griffen of Schuylerville, and Andy Gilbert of Potsdam who were representing the Farm Credit System. Yankee Farm Credit has a branch in Chazy and Farm Credit East has branches in Greenwich, Watertown, and Potsdam. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Thank you Mr. Speaker I rise today to celebrate the centennial of the Farm Credit System. 100 years ago the Farm Credit System began its mission to provide American agriculture with a steady hand and dependability, which they needed to provide for our nation. Throughout its history the Farm Credit System has helped our farmers through the Great Depression, the agriculture crisis of the 1980’s, and even the market collapse of 2008. This deep rooted understanding of our nation’s complex agribusiness industry -- and the people that work tirelessly to send products to market -- is what makes the Farm Credit System so critical to our producers and their future success. And this dedication, to my district in Upstate New York and to American agriculture across this great nation, is why I am proud to stand on the House Floor today and honor the Farm Credit System on its centennial. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
02.11.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Vice-Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, joined Reps. Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) and Mike Turner (R-OH-10) as an original cosponsor of the Protecting Our Security Through Utilizing Right-Sized End-Strength (POSTURE) Act of 2016. “The American people are right to be uneasy about our nation’s security, as all one has to do is open a newspaper to see the continuing threats our nation and allies face across the globe,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This important legislation would ensure that we have a land forces end-strength to face the world’s challenges and protect our nation. I commend Reps. Gibson and Turner for their work on this critical national security legislation.” The POSTURE Act ensures that our Land Forces will not be depleted as a result of the Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment. Click here for bill text. ###
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C.–Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) took to the House floor yesterday to manage floor debate and speak in support of H.R. 3894 – Talia’s Law. This bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-02) would require military and Department of Defense civilian personnel working on a military installation to report instances of child abuse and neglect to State Child Protective Services in addition to their designated Department of Defense point of contact. This legislation passed the House unopposed by voice vote and will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. Click here for Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks in support of this legislation. ###
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) took to the House floor to speak in support of H.R. 3036 – the 9/11 Memorial Act – bipartisan legislation to designate the September 11 Memorial located at the World Trade Center in New York City, New York, as a national memorial. This legislation passed the House today by a vote of 387-12. Click here for video of Congresswoman Stefanik’s remarks. ###
02.04.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) took to the House floor to speak on the need to combat invasive species across New York’s 21st district and to preview her Invasive Species Summit that will take place this Friday, February 5th, 2016, at the 1000 Islands Harbor Hotel in Clayton, N.Y. A transcript of her remarks is below, or to watch video, click here. Mr. Speaker, from Lake George, to the St. Lawrence Seaway, to the pristine waters of Lake Champlain, and all of the beautiful mountains and maple trees that run between -- my district is home to many ecological treasures. And many of these natural wonders have fallen under siege to invasive species that threaten the health and beauty of these natural habitats. Our environment is our lifeblood in Upstate New York, and we must protect it from these predators to boost our economy and to ensure we protect our environment for future generations. This Friday, I am proud to join with stakeholders who have been working tirelessly on this issue across my district and across New York State at an Invasive Species Summit in Clayton. Together we will explore best practices and information sharing, as well as working on innovative new solutions to stop this epidemic. By working together at the federal, state and local levels, I know we can preserve our natural treasures for generations to come. ###
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued this statement following President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight President Obama spoke to a nation that overwhelmingly believes our country is headed in the wrong direction. Families across our country and across our district need better jobs and higher wages, and they are concerned that our government is not doing enough to keep our nation safe. “My top priority as a Member of Congress is to promote economic growth and job creation, which is why I was so pleased that we were able to accomplish significant achievements last year. We delivered certainty to our economy with a two-year budget agreement that lifted arbitrary sequester cuts on our nation’s defense; we passed the first long-term transportation package in a decade; and we secured important North Country economic priorities such as the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank and a delay in the medical device tax, among other measures. “This year I will continue working hard with my House colleagues on behalf of families in our district to put forth a vision for broad-based tax reform that will make our tax code flatter, fairer and simpler for our businesses to compete across the globe. I will also be working to reduce our out of control regulatory code that burdens small businesses and passes additional costs onto consumers. And I will continue to build upon my record of finding commonsense fixes to our healthcare system to reduce costs and improve the quality of care families receive. “I hope the President helps continue our recent record of bipartisan successes by working with Congress this year on these policies. And I hope the President finally moves forward with a clear, comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS. There is chaos around the globe and now more than ever we need sound policies in place to protect our national security. “President Obama’s last year in office does not have to be drowned out in an election year – he should work with Congress to help ease the concerns of the American people.” Congresswoman Stefanik was joined at this year’s State of the Union address by Brigadier General Diana Holland -- the First Female Commandant of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. ###
01.08.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Brigadier General Diana Holland will be her honorary guest to the President’s State of the Union Address on Tuesday, January 12th. Brigadier General Holland served as the 10th Mountain Division's deputy commanding general for support. She was the first female general officer at Fort Drum and the first woman to serve as a deputy commanding general in one of the Army's light infantry divisions. “I am privileged to announce that my special guest to the President’s State of the Union address this year will be Brigadier General Diana Holland,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Brigadier General Holland has served with distinction at Fort Drum and has now moved to a well-deserved appointment at West Point. I know Brigadier General Holland from my work on behalf of Fort Drum, most recently during a CODEL to Afghanistan and I am pleased that she will be able to join me in the House Chamber for this historic occasion.” Brigadier General Holland is currently serving as the first female commandant of cadets at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. BG Holland assumed command as the 76th commandant of cadets during a ceremony at West Point on January 5. ###
01.07.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to recognize Titus Mountain Law Enforcement Appreciation Weekend – an event this weekend to thank law enforcement officials and corrections officers involved with the 2015 Clinton Correctional Manhunt. Below is a transcript of her remarks; for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, last year my district was the home of a manhunt that captured the attention of the entire nation. For almost a month, local, state and federal law enforcement agents and corrections officers made Franklin County, New York their home as they searched for two killers who had escaped from Clinton Correctional Facility. Titus Mountain is a family ski area in the Adirondacks that became a part of law enforcement history as a main staging area for this intensive manhunt. I visited this past August and saw firsthand the facilities that were provided to these law enforcement agents by the Monette family. This weekend, Titus Mountain is hosting a special event for the brave men and women involved in the search for these killers to say, “Thank You” for their help protecting our community. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank these law enforcement agents and corrections officers who risked their safety to protect the families in our community and to thank Titus Mountain for hosting this event. Thank you and I yield back. ###
01.06.2016	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that U.S. Army Captain Adam Sperry of Lake Placid, N.Y., has been selected to serve in her Washington office as a military fellow for 2016. Captain Sperry begins in Congresswoman Stefanik’s office this week. “I am very excited to announce that Captain Adam Sperry of Lake Placid will be helping to serve New York’s 21st district as our 2016 Military fellow,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and the proud Representative for the Fort Drum community, I know Adam’s service, skill and knowledge will benefit our office greatly and am proud to have him on our team.” “I am honored to have the chance to work on behalf of my hometown of Lake Placid and the entire North Country community in Congresswoman Stefanik’s office,” said Captain Sperry. “I look forward to doing everything I can to help Congresswoman Stefanik serve the Fort Drum community on the House Armed Services Committee.” Captain Adam Sperry attended Lake Placid High School in Lake Placid, New York. Captain Sperry received his Bachelor’s degree in 2006 from Edinboro University of Pennsylvania where he was enrolled in the ROTC program. After graduation, he was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in Military Intelligence. He has deployed to both Iraq and Afghanistan and is currently promotable to Major. The U.S. Army Congressional Fellowship Program is a highly competitive program that includes a Master’s degree in Legislative Affairs at George Washington University and a full year of service in the United States Congress to provide an understanding of the complexities of Congress and connection to the future significance of the Army. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that the final government spending and tax package that passed the House with her support include several provisions she has fought hard for on behalf of the North Country. Among these provisions are a suspension of the medical device tax, an extension of the Land Water Conservation Fund, inclusion of the Zadroga 9/11 Health & Compensation Program, extensions of renewable energy tax credits, and funding for a Fort Drum military training academy, among other provisions. Suspends Obamacare’s Medical Device Tax “This bipartisan agreement contains several priorities that I have fought for on behalf of North Country families and businesses,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This package includes a critical suspension of the Obamacare medical device tax. This is a big win for our district, especially in Warren County – known as ‘catheter valley’ because of the numerous medical device manufacturers located there. This is an issue I hear about frequently from businesses in my district, such as AngioDynamics, NuMed, C.R. Bard, Navilyst and Precision Extrusion. The medical device tax causes undue harm to an industry that not only creates jobs, but also improves our health and well-being, which is why I am an original cosponsor of the Protect Medical Innovation Act to repeal this burdensome tax.” Important Provisions for NY-21 Military Installations and Military Families ““I am also pleased that two of my initiatives for Fort Drum have been secured in this package. Fort Drum is one of four sites being considered for an East Coast Missile Defense location, and this package includes important funds for the planning and design of this installation. And I am pleased that this package includes $19 million for the renovation and construction of a Non-Commissioned Officer Academy at Fort Drum. Fort Drum is critical to our region, our state and our national security, and I am pleased these provisions have been included. This package also includes $1.3 billion for naval reactors, which will help support the Kesselring site in West Milton. “As a military community, it’s important that this package includes $1.3 billion for Impact Aid which is a critical resource North Country schools that are home to many military families.” Land Water Conservation Fund Extension and Tax Credits for Renewable Energy “This package includes an important extension of the Land Water Conservation Fund. For 50 years this important program has supported wilderness, historical and community park projects across our district, and while this extension is good news I support making it a permanent resource so that we can end year-to-year uncertainty about its future. In addition, this includes important tax provisions to promote the use of biomass, wind, solar and hydropower. These renewable energy sources are critical to New York’s 21st district and I am pleased that this package includes tax provisions to help these industries thrive.” 9/11 Zadroga Health & Compensation Program “This legislation includes an important measure that I cosponsored to ensure the first responders who spent months working at Ground Zero following the 9/11 terrorist attacks will receive lifetime medical care for their illnesses related to this work. We must take care of our brave first responders and I am proud of the work the New York deletion has done to ensure inclusion of this important program.” Tax Reforms That Will Benefit North Country Families and Businesses “This legislation also makes the research and development tax credit that has been repeatedly extended since 1981. By delivering permanent tax relief to America’s job creators, this legislation will make it easier for North Country employers to plan ahead, hire new workers, grow their businesses, and invest in their communities. “In addition, this package lowers the excise tax imposed on hard cider so it is taxed at a lower rate than wine, which is a boon for our North Country apple orchards.” This package also includes several provisions to help North Country families and students, including: Permanent expansions of the Child Tax Credit Permanent extension of the Earned Income Tax Credit, a refundable tax credit for low- to moderate-income working families with children Permanent extension of the American Opportunity Tax Credit for college expenses Permanent Deduction for teacher classroom expenses Health Funding “When I travel throughout the district speaking with constituents, I hear regularly about the tragic heroin and opioid abuse epidemic that has emerged as a significant problem in the North Country. Heroin can have a devastating effect on all types of families from all walks of life and we must work together to raise awareness and combat this epidemic. I am pleased this package includes important funding to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic.” Lifts the Oil Export Ban “I support an all of the above approach to energy, and lifting the government’s 40-year-old ban on oil exports which will encourage investment, spur innovation, create jobs here at home.” ###
12.10.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement after President Barack Obama signed into law the Every Student Succeeds Act – bipartisan legislation to replace No Child Left Behind and improve K-12 education: “I fought hard to secure a spot on the Education and the Workforce Committee and have spent the year working with my colleagues on the Committee gathering feedback from students, parents, teachers and administrators and heard about the importance of updating our early and secondary education law. This has been a consistent theme as I’ve visited schools across the district and held many meetings with teachers and school officials. “This legislation provides the first update to No Child Left Behind in the last decade and will strengthen our education system so students are better prepared for Higher Education and a 21st Century Workforce. “Furthermore, it was important to me that this legislation addresses significant concerns that I share with my constituents regarding Common Core. I am pleased that this legislation would prohibit the Secretary of Education from forcing, incentivizing, or coercing states into adopting Common Core. “And important to the Fort Drum community, this legislation strengthens Impact Aid – an important resource for North Country schools that are home to many military families. “This is bipartisan legislation that is needed to give power back to state and local governments and I am pleased that the President has signed it into law.” The Every Student Succeeds Act passed the House last week by a vote of 359-64. ###
12.07.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, the House passed the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015 by voice vote. Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored this legislation that would prohibit the sale or distribution of cosmetics containing synthetic plastic microbeads. “When I travel throughout the North Country, one of the frequent environmental concerns I hear about from residents around our district is about the concern of microbeads,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These plastic microbeads often end up polluting waters -- including the St. Lawrence River and Lake Ontario -- because many waste water treatment plants cannot screen them. This has been an issue that I have heard from in my meetings with Save the River and with the Adirondack Association of Towns and Villages just this weekend. I am pleased to help the House pass this important measure today and urge the Senate to quickly follow suit and send this to the President’s desk without delay.” ###
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act – the bicameral conference report to reauthorize federal surface transportation programs through FY2020. “Strengthening our infrastructure is critical to improving our North Country economy, and I was pleased to help the House pass this six year highway bill today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our economy needs predictability and certainty, and this highway bill would allow us to stop passing short term, stop-gap measures so that businesses can plan and grow. This legislation would also reauthorize important highway safety programs to help keep North Country families safe. “I am also pleased that this legislation reverses cuts to the High Density States Program that our communities in Glens Falls and Watertown rely on. This was a top priority of mine for this legislation, which is why I worked aggressively to ensure the Conference Committee knew how vital this funding is to our region and this is reflected in the final package. Additionally this legislation helps North Country farmers by reversing changes to the crop insurance program that would have inflated their costs. “Lastly, I am very pleased that this legislation includes a reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. The Export-Import bank is a critical program for businesses in our district, including the Plattco Corporation and New York Air Brake. I have been a strong proponent of reauthorizing this program since coming to Congress and I am proud to help pass this critical legislation.” What They’re Saying: "The enactment of a multi-year transportation bill was our number one priority in Washington this year," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "Not only for roads and bridges but because our region is in the business of producing transportation equipment, with 33 companies now employing more than 8,100 people in the North Country as we provide the buses, trains and subway cars that keep America moving." Adds Douglas, "The last decade of short term bills has limited new investment in transit equipment, thereby limiting contract opportunities and employment in the North Country. This six-year bill is expected to prompt many new investments over the next few years, and our North Country companies and workers are ready to respond. We thank Congresswoman Stefanik for her active role in the House on our behalf, including direct assistance with several important details, and for her partnership with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand.” Mike Elmendorf, President & CEO of the Associated General Contractors of New York State said, “The recent agreement by Congress on a comprehensive five-year highway bill is welcomed news for the construction industry in New York State. For every one billion dollars invested in our state’s infrastructure, nearly 28,000 good paying jobs are created and supported. With nearly 6,000 bridges and 60% of our roads in need of repair, this highway bill will allow our leaders in state government to finally make the investment that roads and bridges require. I commend and thank Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership and hard work on this issue.” ###
12.02.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor in support of repealing Obamacare’s medical device tax. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or for video, click here. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to continue to lead the fight to repeal the Medical Device Tax. This is a tax on revenue rather than profit. It leads to some of the highest corporate tax rates in the world and creates undue harm to an industry that not only creates jobs, but also improves our health and well-being. A company located in my district, NuMed, employs over 80 people and produces stents and other vascular equipment. The medical device tax prevents NuMed from increasing their budget on research and development by 15 percent. AngioDynamics -- another company in my district -- employs 950 people and creates more than a hundred different medical devices, including the AngioVac System used to treat blood clots. Recently one of their executives said, “the one million that AngioDynamics pays in federal excise taxes on medical device company revenues could instead be used to employ another 10 to 15 people.” We must repeal this burdensome tax to help create jobs and improve patient outcomes. Thank you and I yield back. ###
11.25.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) returned from an official Congressional Delegation visit to Afghanistan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia with colleagues on the House Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee. She released the following statement upon her return: “This trip was an important opportunity to visit with our brave men and women of the 10th Mountain Division and thank them for their brave service this holiday season,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These soldiers put their lives on the line for us each day, and as the Vice-Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, this was a chance to hear firsthand from our troops. We live in an increasingly dangerous world and I am proud that we have these brave men and women defending our national security." In addition to visiting troops in Afghanistan, Congresswoman Stefanik and the Congressional Delegation met with key officials in Egypt and Saudi Arabia to receive updates on issues including the conflict in Syria, Iran’s Nuclear Program, ISIL and Libya. ###
11.24.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement on the news that Alcoa had reached an agreement to allow Massena West to continue operations: “This is welcome news for our North Country community and will keep about 600 good paying jobs in our area," said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I have been in contact with Alcoa officials throughout the year and visited the plant this past May. I saw firsthand how important this company has been as an employer to generations of North Country families. Today’s news is the culmination of advocacy from the Alcoa workforce as well as local, state and federal officials. While this is a welcome announcement, I remain committed to working in Congress to help grow the North Country economy so that we can create good paying jobs for North Country families.” ###
11.19.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. “We have a proud tradition in our country of helping those around the world who suffer from terrorism and civil war,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “But as lawmakers, our foremost job is to protect the people we represent. This legislation would halt our refugee program until we are certain that no refugee from Iraq and Syria who is a threat will be allowed in the country. Our government must work together at every level to keep our communities safe.” What is the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act? To ensure that comprehensive background checks are conducted on every refugee from Syria and Iraq seeking admittance into the United States, this bill will require two actions: The FBI director must certify the background investigation of each refugee. The Secretary of Homeland Security, the FBI director, and the Director of National Intelligence must unanimously concur that each refugee is not a security threat to the United States and make a certification to Congress. ###
11.19.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led a bipartisan group of 44 freshmen Members of Congress in sending a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI-01) urging him to include medical device tax repeal language within a larger legislative package before the end of the 2015 calendar year. Congresswoman Stefanik and the lawmakers wrote: Members from both sides of the aisle understand the negative impact that this tax has on our constituents. This tax inhibits access to the medical devices which patients need to maintain their health and also has an adverse effect on hundreds of thousands of American jobs supported by the medical technology industry. Under the 2.3 percent excise tax, medical device manufacturers are required to pay the Internal Revenue Service an estimated average of $194 million per month in medical device tax payments. In a competitive global economy, this tax threatens an innovative industry that directly employs 400,000 Americans, generates approximately $25 billion in payroll, and invests nearly $10 billion in research and development annually. The medical device tax is a tax on revenue, rather than profit, which means that the U.S. device industry is subject to one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. As you know, American companies represent 38 percent of the global market and this tax threatens our nation’s ability to innovate and stay competitive. Additionally, American companies must pay the tax even in non-profitable years. As companies look to make cuts to offset the tax, research and development is often one of the first items to go. This trade-off undermines the future of the industry and puts the discovery of new breakthrough medical technologies at risk. Congress is now in a position to mitigate the harmful effects of the medical device tax. As freshmen Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle, we owe it to our constituents to follow through on the promises we made to address this issue before the end of the year. We respectfully ask that you address the medical device tax language in legislation that has the potential to become law, in order to give our nation’s economy and millions of our nation’s citizens the certainty and care they deserve. For a digital copy of the letter, click here. ###
11.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has introduced H.R. 3989, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act – legislation to reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Family Caregiver Program to help better support family members caring for seriously wounded veterans. “Those who are hurt while protecting our nation deserve the best care we can provide, and this important legislation will help our Military Caregivers receive the benefits they need to take care of our heroes,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district is home to more veterans than any district in New York, and it is important that we do what we can to take care of our wounded warriors, and to take care of those who give them care. I am proud to introduce this commonsense legislation that will make reforms to the Family Caregiver Program to give Military Caregivers the benefits they deserve.” The Family Caregiver Program, mandated by Congress in 2010, was designed to help support family members caring for seriously-wounded veterans in the post-9/11 era. Major features of the program include providing medical support for caregivers, who often suffer from health problems as they focus on the veteran's well-being, and providing stipends to compensate caregivers' time. This program is currently experiencing delays in approval of benefits. Caregivers who are denied eligibility for the program or believe the Veteran's rating is not appropriate may appeal such decisions with the VA Medical Centers (VAMC) with the assistance of VA Caregiver Support Coordinators. VA officials originally estimated that approximately 4,000 family caregivers would be approved for the program by this time. However, there were 15,600 approved with another 14,800 applications remaining. This unanticipated deluge has overwhelmed staff allocated for the program, causing a backlog. For example, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that some VA facilities were not returning caregiver phone calls. To further complicate the problem, family caregivers who have been denied program benefits are now filing appeals, leaving the VA with two issues: The inability to process the flood of caregiver applications; and An expanding backlog of appeals filed by frustrated caregivers Whether the decisions received by appealing veterans are favorable or not, they should be timely, fair, impartial and accurate. While proposals by the VA Department will help, it appears that a substantial transformation of processes and clinical reviews are still needed to significantly reduce the amount of time veterans wait for decisions on their appeals. Immediate and effective relief is required as continued delays will only increase as the number of mounting appeals. Congresswoman Stefanik’s bill, the Support Our Military Caregivers Act, would ensure that new or modified processes and systems are veteran-centric, outcomes-based and continually improved through the use of best practices. This would be done by directing the Department of Veterans Affairs to contract with a third party in order to streamline claims and reduce the Caregiver backlog. For text of the bill, click here. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 22 – the DRIVE Act. This legislation reauthorizes federal surface transportation programs through FY2021 while providing long-term certainty for state and local governments, flexibility for states to invest in transportation infrastructure, reforms permitting processes and eliminates duplicative bureaucratic burdens. “Strengthening our infrastructure is critical to improving our North Country economy, and I was pleased to help the House pass this six year highway bill today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our economy needs predictability and certainty, and this highway bill would allow us to stop passing short term, stop-gap measures so that businesses can plan and grow. This legislation would also reauthorize important highway safety programs so help keep North Country families safe.” H.R. 22 passed the House by a vote of 363-64 and will now go to conference with the Senate. ###
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21) introduced the Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act, a bipartisan bill to expand access to nutritious meals for young children. Improvements to the existing Child and Adult Care Food Program would encourage more child care providers to participate, increasing the number of children who benefit. “Too many hardworking families struggle with food insecurity and with access to high-quality, affordable child care,” Congresswoman Bonamici said. “The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act will help more families access child care providers who offer nutritious foods that are essential to children’s healthy development and long-term success. I am glad to partner with Congresswoman Stefanik to expand a program that helps provide nutrition to millions of young children every day.” “By expanding access to nutritious food, our nation’s children can live happier, healthier lives,” Congresswoman Stefanik said. “Our government must do more to ensure all children have access to nutritious food. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act is a bipartisan, commonsense measure to increase access and I am proud to work with Congresswoman Bonamici on this important bill.” The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act makes changes to the existing Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP), which reimburses child care providers, Head Start programs, homeless shelters, and afterschool programs that serve nutritious meals to eligible children and adults. Each day, more than three million children and 100,000 adults receive meals through the program. Since the mid-1990s, the CACFP program has seen a persistent decrease in the number of family day care homes that participate. This drop-off in participation jeopardizes access to nutritious meals for children who spend time with child care providers. At the same time, the program authorizes only two meals each day, even though many working families rely on full-day child care. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act aims to increase participation by reducing paperwork, streamlining eligibility requirements, and promoting clearer guidelines for providers. The bill also authorizes reimbursements for a third meal in a day. Providers will be able to be reimbursed for offering nutritious late-afternoon meals to children who are in care for more than eight hours. By streamlining compliance measures and adding a third meal, the bill will encourage more providers to participate in the program. The result will be better, healthier outcomes for children. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act is supported by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), Child Care Food Program Roundtable, Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, Food Research and Action Center (FRAC), The Food Trust, National Association for Family Child Care, National CACFP Forum, National CACFP Sponsors Association, National Women’s Law Center, NETWORK, A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby, and RESULTS: The Power to End Poverty. ###
11.03.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor in recognition of National Farm to School month. Below is a transcript of her remarks; for video, click here. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to celebrate and recognize National Farm to School Month. The USDA Farm to School Program fosters lifelong learning and community building while providing school children with fresh, healthy foods from local food producers. Just this year, Watertown City School District and the Saranac Lake Central School District in the North Country were awarded grants for their Farm to School projects. These projects will encourage investment during the academic year on locally sourced foods, which will in turn support our North Country farmers. I trust their projects will be a success like so many others across upstate New York and the country. We need to empower our nation’s children and their families to make healthy food choices through education that not only introduces fresh produce but also teaches children about the importance of our agricultural communities. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
11.03.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the announcement that Alcoa will not modernize the Alcoa East plant and will shut down the smelting operation at the Alcoa West plant: “This is very disappointing news for our region. I have been in contact with Alcoa officials throughout the year and visited the plant this past May. I saw firsthand how important this company has been as an employer to generations of North Country families. I am working with federal, state and local officials to explore this decision and to work to ensure that any unused power that was allocated to the Massena West plant will be used to benefit the Massena community. I remain committed to working in Congress to work to grow the North Country economy so that we can create good paying jobs for North Country families.” ###
11.02.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama signed the Bipartisan Budget Act into law, which contained her proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act’s auto-enrollment mandate: “I remain committed to achieving a healthcare system that works for North Country families and businesses, and this commonsense legislation is one step in that direction,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This legislation repeals an unnecessary and duplicative part of Obamacare that reduces choice in health coverage and creates confusion that can lead to double enrollment and significant tax penalties on both the employee and employer. I am pleased that the President has signed this common sense proposal into law to protect North Country families and businesses.” Background: 7/16/15: Stefanik Introduces the Be Open Act 10/28/15: Bipartisan Budget Deal Passes House, Includes Stefanik Proposal ###
10.29.2015	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the election of Congressman Paul D. Ryan (R-WI-01) as Speaker of the House of Representatives: “There is no one more qualified to lead and unite the House of Representatives than Congressman Paul Ryan,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I am fortunate to know Paul as both a friend and colleague, and I know that under his leadership the House of Representatives will work hard to solve the tough challenges facing North Country families.” ###
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 1314 – the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation is a two year budget agreement that authorizes spending above sequester levels for FY2016 and FY2017, takes the threat of a government default off the table, and includes a provision championed by Congresswoman Stefanik to repeal the Obamacare “auto-enrollment mandate.” “I pledged to bring commonsense to Congress and ran against political brinkmanship,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan agreement brings needed certainty to our budget process so that we can stop governing from crisis to crisis. “I have fought to reverse the damaging effects of the sequester since arriving in Congress and am pleased that this agreement includes needed relief from these cuts over the next two years. This means stable funding for the Department of Defense -- including important certainty for Fort Drum -- giving our troops the necessary resources they need to keep our nation safe. “Additionally, this agreement is a win for North Country seniors. It protects Medicare Part B recipients from a dramatic rate spike and ensures that the Social Security Disability Trust Fund can continue to pay full benefits. “This budget agreement also includes a provision I authored that would repeal the Obamacare auto-enrollment mandate -- an unnecessary and duplicative part of the Affordable Care Act that reduces choice in health coverage and creates confusion that can lead to significant tax penalties on both the employee and employer. I remain committed to achieving a healthcare system that works for North Country families and businesses, and this commonsense provision is one step in that direction.” The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 passed the House by a vote of 266-167. ###
10.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. Congresswoman Stefanik helped lead the effort to bring this bill to the floor by signing a discharge petition earlier this month. “I was proud to support this important jobs program in the House today,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “While this discharge procedure is unusual I was elected to produce results, and passage of this measure means jobs for the North Country. That's my top priority and will always be the approach I take to representing my constituents. “The Export-Import bank is a critical program for businesses in our district, including the Plattco Corporation and New York Air Brake. I have been a strong proponent of reauthorizing this program since coming to Congress and I pleased to see this measure pass the House today. I hope the Senate acts swiftly to send this bill to the President’s desk so that this important economic program can be reauthorized.” What They’re Saying: “On behalf of Plattco’s employee-owners, I thank Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership on this issue. The Export-Import Bank is critical to businesses like ours that rely heavily on exports,” said Doug Crozier, President and CEO of Plattco Corporation. “Reauthorizing this program is important to helping our business expand and our economy grow.” “NYAB and its 500 employees applaud Congresswoman Stefanik's efforts to push through this vital piece of legislation that will allow NYAB and hundreds of other small businesses across the country to compete in the global market place,” added Mike Hawthorne, President of New York Air Brake. “Ex/Im will help America level the playing field.” Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act in January. She also cosponsored H.R. 3611, the Export-Import Bank Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2015, which is identical to the Senate’s Ex-Im reauthorization bill. Additional Background: 10/13/15: Stefanik Signs Discharge Petition for Ex-Im Bank To Make Congress Work 7/16/2015: Rep. Stefanik Speaks on Ex-Im Reauthorization on House Floor ###
10.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3762 -- the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. Included in this reconciliation package was a proposal introduced by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) to repeal the “auto-enrollment mandate” under the Affordable Care Act. This proposal comes from her legislation, the Be Open Act -- a commonsense fix to the Affordable Care Act. “This simply repeals an unnecessary and duplicative part of the Affordable Care Act that reduces choice in health coverage and creates confusion that can lead to significant tax penalties on both the employee and employer,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I remain committed to achieving a healthcare system that works for North Country families and businesses, and this commonsense legislation is one step in that direction. “Additionally I am pleased that this reconciliation package includes another measure that I have fought for – a repeal of Obamacare’s onerous medical device tax. This is a harmful penalty that is hurting businesses and consumers across our district, especially in Warren County, home to many medical device manufacturers. “I am pleased that the House has included this important fix in our budget reconciliation package, and I hope it is passed quickly by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk.” Background: Stefanik Introduces the Be Open Act Stefanik Leads Bipartisan Freshmen Letter to the Speaker on Medical Device Tax Repeal ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s veto of the bipartisan FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act: “Putting politics ahead of our men and women in uniform is simply unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our federal government has no greater role than to provide for our nation’s defense. Together, the House and the Senate worked to craft a strong, bipartisan NDAA that would provide our troops with what they need to protect us. This legislation passed with strong bipartisan majorities in both chambers of Congress and yet President Obama has vetoed this important national security legislation to make a political point. “At a time of increased global instability, this legislation would authorize a pay raise for service members and ensure that our military has the modern resources and support necessary to provide for the safety of our nation. This is critical for the security and safety of our brave soldiers from around our country and from Fort Drum’s 10th Mountain Division, who are deployed in harm’s way. “The NDAA has passed successfully for 53 years in a row and should pass now. My colleagues and I on the House Armed Services Committee remain committed to working to provide our brave troops with the resources they need and I hope the President will reverse course and join us.” Congresswoman Stefanik, the Vice-Chair for the House Armed Subcommittee on Readiness, was the sole freshman selected to the bipartisan, bicameral NDAA Conference Committee. In the final conference report that was passed out of Congress and now vetoed by the President, she fought for several key initiatives to help our national defense, Fort Drum and the North Country. Read more here. Background: Since it was first passed over 50 years ago, the NDAA has only been vetoed four times. In each case, the President objected to an actual provision in the bill, and each time the Armed Services Committees were able to find a compromise that earned the President’s signature. This is the first time that the Commander-in-Chief will sacrifice national security by vetoing a bill that provides pay and benefits for our troops, as leverage for his larger domestic political agenda. According to CRS and Committee Records: FY79 NDAA: Vetoed over funding for Nimitz Class Aircraft Carriers FY89 NDAA: Vetoed over missile defense policy FY96 NDAA: Vetoed over issues related to the ABM treaty FY08 NDAA: Vetoed, with the support of Congress, over a late interpretation of a provision on Iraq. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 2657, the POWER Act. Currently, the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits to consumers who purchase renewable energy producing items. This legislation would expand that provision in the tax code to include combined heat and power systems and waste heat to power systems. “Families across the North Country rely on combined heat power for their energy and heating needs,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation would put those families on an even playing field with consumers who use other alternative energy sources. This is a win for renewable energy and a win for taxpayers.” The POWER Act calls for a 20% increase in tax relief which can be applied to new purchases of renewable energy producing items from now until January 1, 2019. For more information including bill text, click here. ###
10.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 2597, the Accelerating Innovation in Medicine (AIM) Act of 2015. Currently, the newest and most innovative medical technologies are often subject to limited coverage or inadequate reimbursement under Medicare, especially when these products and procedures warrant greater reimbursement than Medicare will offer. If a Medicare beneficiary is interested in self-paying for a new device or procedure that is not covered by Medicare, there can be significant administrative obstacles. “The AIM act will help North Country seniors by allowing for easier access to new and innovative medical devices,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Furthermore, by increasing access to new medical technologies, we can spur innovation and economic growth in our vibrant medical device industry. This bipartisan, commonsense legislation is good for patients and the medical device industry.” “The AIM Act goes a long way to helping the US remain the world leader in bringing innovative medical devices to market that give both patients and their physicians greater access and choice to new, safe and effective medical technologies,” said Jessica Crawford, President of MedTech. “This legislation will promote high quality job growth in the medical device sector and provide some regulatory clarity to medical device manufacturers which in turn will drive continued investment in the medical device sector. We thank Representative Stefanik for her continued leadership on issues important to our industry.” Legislative Specifics: The AIM Act creates a new category for FDA-approved or cleared medical devices. When an application is filed or a medical device is exempted from FDA approval or clearance, manufacturers may indicate that they do not wish to seek Medicare coverage for their new technology for a period of at least three years. This means that upon FDA approval or clearance, the device will be immediately available as a treatment option for physicians and for Medicare patients who choose to self-pay—with no red tape, paperwork, administrative costs, or risk of penalty. ###
10.19.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she will be sharing stories of North Country veterans on her Congressional website throughout the month of November in honor of Veterans Day. “The North Country has been home to some of the bravest patriots this country has ever known,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our military service members have sacrificed so much to keep our nation safe, and I am honored to serve these brave veterans in Congress. Please help me honor these men and women who have served by allowing me to share their stories and photos with a grateful nation.” For those residents of New York’s 21st district who have served in the military or know someone who has, Congresswoman Stefanik is inviting them to submit photos and stories from their time in service to our office. Congresswoman Stefanik will be sharing these stories and photos on her official website (Stefanik.house.gov) and Facebook page throughout the month of November. Please submit your stories and photos to ny21vets@mail.house.gov or to our Glens Falls office at 136 Glen Street, Glens Falls, N.Y., 12801. Please do not mail original photos. Those who are submitting material are asked to include a short description of the branch, title, and assignment for photos. Also, they are asked to be sure they have permission to share photos and stories before sending. ###
10.14.2015	Watertown, N.Y. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement in response to the proposed sewage dump into the St. Lawrence River by the City of Montreal. “I am very concerned with Montreal’s plan to dump 2 billion gallons of sewage into the St. Lawrence River,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In the North Country we know the importance of our environment and the importance of protecting our bodies of water. I trust that the Canadian government agrees and will make the right decision to protect the St. Lawrence River by blocking this unwise decision. My office has been communicating with the city of Montreal and will continue to stay in touch with our Canadian counterparts to voice the North Country’s strong opposition to this plan.” The City of Montreal was planning to divert 2 billion gallons of raw sewage into the St. Lawrence River over a week long period as part of an infrastructure project. The dumped sewage would enter the river and flow towards the Atlantic Ocean impacting the natural ecosystem of the St. Lawrence River. Environment Canada, the Canadian government’s department responsible for coordinating and monitoring environmental policies is set to rule on the Montreal Sewage dump in the coming days. ###
10.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) signed a discharge petition to bypass committee and allow House consideration of H.R. 597, legislation she cosponsored to reform and reauthorize the U.S. Export Import Bank: “While this procedure is unusual I was elected to produce results, and passage of this measure means jobs for the North Country. That's my top priority and will always be the approach I take to representing my constituents.” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Export-Import bank is a critical program for businesses in our district, including the Plattco Corporation and New York Air Brake. I have been a strong proponent of reauthorizing this program since coming to Congress and I am proud to help this bipartisan effort to move forward with a vote on this critical legislation.” “On behalf of Plattco’s employee-owners, I thank Congresswoman Stefanik for her leadership on this issue. The Export-Import Bank is critical to businesses like ours that rely heavily on exports,” said Doug Crozier, President and CEO of Plattco Corporation. “Reauthorizing this program is important to helping our business expand and our economy grow.” “NYAB and its 500 employees applaud Congresswoman Stefanik's efforts to push through this vital piece of legislation that will allow NYAB and hundreds of other small businesses across the country to compete in the global market place,” added Mike Hawthorne, President of New York Air Brake. “Ex/Im will help America level the playing field.” Congresswoman Stefanik previously cosponsored H.R. 3611, the Export-Import Bank Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2015, which is identical to the Senate’s Ex-Im reauthorization bill. Additional Background: 7/16/2015: Rep. Stefanik Speaks on Ex-Im Reauthorization on House Floor ###
10.08.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the State University of New York’s (SUNY) decision to award SUNY Adirondack with a 2020 Challenge Grant. The mission of the SUNY 2020 Challenge Grant program is to elevate SUNY as a catalyst for regional economic development and affordable education and Congresswoman Stefanik provided a letter of support on behalf of SUNY Adirondack. “This is incredible news for SUNY Adirondack and I am pleased that my office could assist in this important effort,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This grant will go a long way to helping SUNY Adirondack develop and implement a one stop center to assist start-up and expanding businesses in all sectors of our economy. Additionally, this important funding will help SUNY Adirondack expand their health care and continuing education workforce training opportunities.” For more information on the SUNY 2020 Challenge Grant Program, click here. ###
10.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored H.R. 2646 – the Helping Families in Mental health Crisis Act – bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA-18) to reform the federal mental health system. “Sadly, millions of Americans suffer from severe psychiatric disorders that are going untreated,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This important legislation would take steps to reform our nation’s antiquated and ineffective approach to mental health problems and instead focus our resources on those who need it most.” Background: As documented in a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, 112 federal programs intended to address mental illness aren’t connecting for effective service delivery and “interagency coordination for programs supporting individuals with serious mental illness is lacking.” While the federal government dedicates $130 billion towards mental health each year, the so-called “mental health system” is best described by its deficits. To name just a few: There is a nationwide shortage of nearly 100,000 needed psychiatric beds. Three of the largest mental health “hospitals” are in fact criminal incarceration facilities (LA County, Cook County, and Rikers Island jails). Privacy rules that frustrate both physicians and family members generate nearly 8,000 official complaints yearly. For every 2,000 children with a mental health disorder, only one child psychiatrist is available. The leading federal mental health agency does not employ a psychiatrist. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015, H.R. 2646, fixes the nation’s broken mental health system by refocusing programs, reforming grants, and removing federal barriers to care. Empowers Parents and Caregivers Breaks down barriers for families to work with doctors and mental health professionals and be meaningful partners in the front-line care delivery team. Drives Evidence-Based Care Creates an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders with mental health credentials within the Department of Health & Human Services to elevate the importance of mental health in the nation’s leading health agency, coordinate programs across different agencies, and promote effective evidence-based programs. Further Refines Mental Health & Substance Abuse Parity Requires the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders to make public all federal investigations into compliance with the parity law so families and consumers know what treatment they have rights to access. Driving Innovation Establishes a National Mental Health Policy Laboratory to drive innovative models of care, develop evidence-based and peer-review standards for grant programs. Dedicates funding for the Brain Initiative (Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies Initiative). Improving Transition from One Level of Care to Another Requires psychiatric hospitals to establish clear and effective discharge planning to ensure a timely and smooth transition from the hospital to appropriate post-hospital care and services. Fixes Shortage of Crisis Mental Health Beds Provides additional psychiatric hospital beds for those experiencing an acute mental health crisis and in need of short term (less than 30 days) immediate inpatient care for patient stabilization. Reaching Underserved and Rural Populations Advances tele-psychiatry to link pediatricians and primary care doctors with psychiatrists and psychologists in areas where patients don’t have access to needed care. Focuses on Mental Health Workforce Requires the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders to study and recommend a national strategy for increasing the number of psychiatrists, child and adolescent psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, clinical social workers, and mental health peer-support specialists. Includes child and adolescent psychiatrists in the National Health Service Corps. Authorizes the Minority Fellowship Program. Advances Early Intervention and Prevention Programs Authorizes, for the first time in federal law, the Recovery After Initial Schizophrenia Episode (RAISE), an evidence-based early intervention program. Reauthorizes the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. Launches a new early childhood grant program to provide intensive services for children with serious emotional disturbances in an educational setting. Alternatives to Institutionalization Incentivizes states to provide community-based alternatives to institutionalization for those with serious mental illness, such as Assisted Outpatient Treatment and other assertive-care community approaches. Focuses on Suicide Prevention Reauthorizes the Garrett Lee Smith Suicide Prevention Program, invests in research on self-directed violence and for the first time authorizes in statute the Suicide Prevention Hotline Advances Integration Between Primary & Behavioral Care Extends health information technology for mental health providers to coordinate care with primary care doctors using electronic medical records. Increases Program Coordination Across the Federal Government Establishes Interagency Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee to organize, integrate, and coordinate the research, treatment, housing and services for individuals with substance use disorders and mental illness. Effective Protection & Advocacy Ends the decades-old prohibition on physicians seeking to dedicate time volunteering at community mental health clinics and federally-qualified health centers. For more information on this legislation, click here. ###
10.02.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the U.S. Navy’s decision to award a contract to MetalCraft Marine in Cape Vincent, N.Y.: “This is great news for our North Country community and the Jefferson County economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “MetalCraft Marine has a long history of manufacturing high quality boats and the U.S. Navy has chosen well by awarding them this important work.” In September, Congresswoman Stefanik sent a letter of recommendation on behalf of MetalCraft Marine to the U.S. Navy. The contract will keep 15 to 20 people fully employed for the next 5 years in addition to increased business for suppliers. ###
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, voted in support of the Conference Report to H.R. 1735 – the FY16 NDAA. Congresswoman Stefanik was the sole freshman negotiator on the bipartisan, bicameral NDAA conference committee and continues to be a leading voice in Congress against sequestration. She released the following statement upon House passage: “The federal government has no greater role than providing for our national defense and I am proud of the bipartisan hard work of the Conference Committee,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Every day seems to bring a new headline from around the world reminding us of increasing instability, and it is imperative that we pass an NDAA to give our military the resources they need to keep our country safe. I urge the President to put our national security ahead of politics and sign this NDAA.” $30 Million Provided for East Coast Missile Defense Site “Specifically, I am very proud that $30 million for the planning, design and construction of an East Coast Missile Defense Site was included in the NDAA,” added Stefanik. “Missile defense shields our nation from hostile incoming warheads, and with the escalation of threats by rogue nations, like North Korea and Iran, the United States must be ready -- not just to retaliate -- but to actually stop an attack.” Fort Drum has been identified as one potential location for an East Coast Missile Defense Site and the Pentagon estimates that the base would employ up to 1,800 military and civilian personnel and contractors if it were selected. Stefanik Amendment on Army’s Force Structure Passes House The NDAA conference report also included language offered by Congresswoman Stefanik and Congressman John Fleming (R-LA-4) that would require the Department of Defense to analyze further reductions to the U.S. Army’s Force Structure. “Since September 11th, 2001, the 10th Mountain Division has been the most actively deployed division to Iraq and Afghanistan and are currently there serving our nation in these highly kinetic combat zones,” added Stefanik. “We are asking our brave service men and women to do more with less over and over again. Representing such a high operational tempo unit, I am truly concerned about long-term impacts on force structure due the budget cap constraints, on what the Department of Defense referred to as severe deployment demands.” Stefanik Leads on Including $19 million for Fort Drum NCO Academy “I am also pleased that this conference report provides funding for the NCO Academy at Fort Drum. This project is required to provide adequate barracks, instructional, and operational space meeting current standards for NCO training,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Fights for BRAC HUBzones Congresswoman Stefanik also successfully had language added to the NDAA that will adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. This extends the length of time for eligibility to either eight years or until the next census data is released, whichever is longer, giving the former military base adequate time to take advantage of the HUBZone program. “The North Country community knows all too well the devastating effects that base closures can have on local economies after the Plattsburgh Air Force Base closed in 1995,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to introduce this important amendment to the NDAA that would expand access to the HUBZone program to the communities of recently closed military bases and help protect local economies.” NDAA Includes On Time Apache Transfer to Fort Drum “This is a big win, as any delay would prevent this transfer to Fort Drum and consequently have grave consequences on 10th Mountain’s readiness, deployment schedule and dwell time,” added Stefanik. ###
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 719 – the Continuing Resolution for FY2016. This short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) provides funding to keep the government open through December 11, 2015. “I pledged to bring commonsense to Congress and ran against political brinkmanship,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Today I continued to make good on that promise by voting to keep the government open. I oppose government shutdowns and the North Country knows all too well the devastating effects that a shutdown would have on our economy and our security. “Our district is home to thousands of government employees, including border patrol agents who help keep our communities safe while promoting important commerce with our Canadian neighbors. In addition, we are the proud home of Fort Drum and the 10th Mountain Division, and in a time of increased deployment schedules and mounting international turmoil, it would be unconscionable for us to ask these brave men and women to serve in harm’s way without the promise of a paycheck. “North Country families expect Congress to fulfill our responsibilities and live up to our commitment to work every day to help keep the American economy moving forward.” ###
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today the House Committee on Education and the Workforce marked up a proposal introduced by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s (R-NY-21) to repeal the “auto-enrollment mandate” under the Affordable Care Act as part of a reconciliation proposal introduced pursuant to S.Con.Res. 11, the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2016. This proposal comes from her legislation, the Be Open Act -- a commonsense fix to the Affordable Care Act. “This simply repeals an unnecessary and duplicative part of the Affordable Care Act that reduces choice in health coverage and creates confusion that can lead to significant tax penalties on both the employee and employer,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I remain committed to achieving a healthcare system that works for North Country families and businesses, and this commonsense legislation is one step in that direction. I am pleased the Committee has included this important fix in our budget reconciliation passage, and I hope it is passed quickly by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk.” The reconciliation proposal would repeal Section 1511 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, known as the “auto-enrollment mandate.” This mandate requires employers with 200 or more full-time employees to automatically enroll new full-time employees into employer-sponsored health care coverage if the employee fails to choose another employer plan or decline coverage. Concerns have been raised that the mandate will create unnecessary confusion for workers and employers and result in penalties for those already enrolled in health insurance coverage. Rep. Stefanik’s proposal to repeal this mandate was passed by the Education and Workforce Committee and added to the reconciliation proposal by a vote of 22 to 15. Additional Background: Stefanik Introduces the Be Open Act Watertown Daily Times Editorial: Bit by bit: Legislation would begin process of revising ACA for the better ###
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 3611 – legislation to reform and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Congresswoman Stefanik has previously cosponsored H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act, and this new legislation is identical to the Senate’s Ex-Im reauthorization bill. “My top priority in Congress is fighting for job creation and economic growth,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Export-Import bank is a critical program for businesses in our district, such as the Plattco Corporation and New York Air Brake. I will continue advocating for this important program, and I urge House leadership to bring this reauthorization measure to a vote without delay.” This legislation is a four-year reauthorization bill that will keep American jobs here at home, make the Bank’s practices more accountable, and enhance taxpayer protections by requiring the Bank to become more solvent and self-sufficient. Additional Info: 7/16/2015: Rep. Stefanik Speaks on Ex-Im Reauthorization on House Floor ###
09.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) cosponsored the Pay Our Military Act – legislation introduced by Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO-06) in response to a potential shutdown of the Federal government. This commonsense legislation would ensure that men and women serving in the armed services continue to receive pay even in the case of a shutdown. The bill would also protect the pay of Department of Defense civilians and contractors necessary to support service members, as well as National Guard troops activated in the event of a presidential emergency declaration. “I will continue to help lead the effort to pass a government funding measure and avoid an unnecessary government shutdown,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “But it would be unconscionable for our troops and defense employees to worry about their paychecks while they serve to keep our nation safe, and that’s why I am proud to cosponsor this important piece of legislation. I urge my colleagues to quickly act to pass this important, commonsense bill to give our military the peace of mind they and their families deserve.” ###
09.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Ryan Costello (R-PA-06) and nine of their freshman colleagues sent a letter to the entire House Republican Conference, urging their support for a government funding measure that will avert a harmful and unnecessary government shutdown. The lawmakers wrote: With less than two weeks until the September 30 deadline to fund federal government operations, we are writing today to express our strong support for a funding resolution that will avoid another unnecessary and harmful government shutdown. We believe Congress should complete its work and provide funding for the federal government through September 30, 2016, but we are willing to support a short-term resolution that will give both the House and the Senate the additional time necessary to negotiate final spending numbers. As freshman Members of the House Republican Conference, we were elected by our constituents to be principled, pragmatic leaders. They expect us to fulfill our responsibilities, avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, and live up to our commitment to work every day to help keep the American economy moving forward. The sixteen-day government shutdown in 2013 cost our economy an estimated $24 billion and stalled the creation of over 100,000 private sector jobs. It also imposed unacceptable delays in life-saving NIH research studies and payment of veterans’ disability claims, cost over $500 million in lost revenue at our national parks, and shut thousands of children out of Head Start programs. In short, the shutdown not only hurt taxpayers with the loss of important government services — it actually cost more taxpayer money to close the federal government than to keep it open. We are living in challenging times that require serious, thoughtful leadership. We are proud of the many accomplishments that House Republicans have achieved this year, including passage of the first real entitlement reform in two decades, measures to strengthen veterans’ health care, new efforts to combat human trafficking, and legislation to accelerate the discovery and delivery of life-saving medical innovations. These legislative achievements will make a real difference in the lives of all Americans. We need to build on that record by passing fiscally responsible spending bills that will cut wasteful spending, rein in our debt, and reform government. We stand together in the effort to keep the government funded beyond September 30 as we continue the fight to pass responsible spending bills that put the taxpayers first. Freshman House lawmakers who signed the letter included Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Ryan Costello (R-PA-06), Mimi Walters (R-CA-45), Daniel Donovan (R-NY-11), John Katko (R-NY-24), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), Amata Radewagen (R-American Samoa), Cresent Hardy (R-NV-04), Bruce Poliquin (R-ME-02), Martha McSally (R-AZ-02), and Tom MacArthur (R-NJ-03). A digital copy of the letter can be found here. ###
09.22.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that her office is accepting applications for qualified students to be nominated to a U.S. Military Service Academy. “It is one of my highest honors as a Member of Congress to nominate deserving students from New York’s 21st Congressional District to our nation’s military service academies,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Serving in our nation’s military is one of the most honorable callings and I look forward to hearing from our district’s prospective nominees.” Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Congresswoman Stefanik may nominate up to ten individuals for each vacant academy slot allotted to our district. Interested students are asked to complete, print, sign and submit a nomination form, available on our official congressional website: https://stefanik.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. This completed form should be mailed to our Glens Falls district office, along with the following application materials, prior to November 1, 2015: Current high school transcript Standardized test scores (SAT or ACT) Resume detailing extracurricular activities and any employment history 500-word essay describing your reasons for wanting to serve as an officer in the United States military Three letters of recommendations Successful applicants will have a broad academic background, the ability to pass a physical aptitude test, and strong leadership potential. An applicant must also be a U.S. citizen, a high school graduate between the ages of 17 and 23, unmarried, have no dependents, and be of high moral character. Acceptance of a service academy appointment requires at least a nine-year service obligation, including four years at an academy and five years of active duty service. A member of the Congresswoman's staff will be in contact later this fall to schedule an interview with the Service Academy Nominating Committee. ###
09.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) approval of $7,597,458 in federal funding for the runway extension at Ogdensburg International Airport (OGS). “This is wonderful news for Ogdensburg International Airport and our North Country community, and I am happy that my office could assist in securing this important funding,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The runway extension plan at Ogdensburg International Airport will help facilitate low fare airline service to the region, expanding commerce, tourism and our local economy. Furthermore, this important infrastructure project will help facilitate greater commerce with our Canadian neighbors as well.” After the proposed expansion, the airport will support between 125 and 135 jobs, compared to 53 in 2010. In addition, the total amount of direct and indirect economic activity that Ogdensburg International Airport produces could nearly double by 2017. The runway expansion will also bring an estimated 38,000 new passengers and their resources into the North Country. Background: 6/8/2015: Congresswoman Stefanik Urges FAA Approval of Important Funds for Ogdensburg International Airport 7/21/2015: Stefanik Commends Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority on Bid Openings for Airport Expansion Project ###
09.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) joined Congressman Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) to introduce a resolution calling for improved environmental stewardship. The measure calls on the House to commit to working on economically viable solutions that address the threat of climate change, saying it is “a conservative principle to protect, conserve, and be good stewards of our environment.” “Climate change is a serious issue that we must address and I am proud to join Congressman Gibson on this resolution,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This resolution strikes the careful balance between the priority of addressing the global threat of climate change and the importance of protecting and creating American jobs. New York’s 21st district is the proud home of the Adirondacks and we understand that protecting our environment plays an important role in promoting economic growth and opportunity.” “All too often, the conversation about appropriate and balanced environmental stewardship gets caught up in partisan politics. Yet, this conversation is key to the preservation of our great country for generations to come, as important as ensuring we have fiscally responsible policies to secure our future,” said Congressman Gibson. “For that reason, I believe the most important first step forward is recognizing that this is also a fundamentally conservative issue, and finding common ground on how to address it.” The resolution calls for better environmental stewardship through “economically viable, and broadly supported private and public solutions to study and address the causes and effects of measured changes to our global and regional climates.” The resolution was developed working with a non-partisan network of faith-based, national security, environmental, business, and community organizations for this outline of conservative goals and policies for ensuring the proper stewardship of our environment and natural resources. Pope Francis is expected to also call for action on improved environmental stewardship to mitigate the causes and effects of our changing climate during his visit to Congress next week. The text of the resolution can be found here. ###
09.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has cosponsored H.R. 721, the Short Line Railroad Rehabilitation and Investment Act of 2015— bipartisan legislation to reauthorize a vital tax credit for small railroad companies to incentivize investment and maintenance of their rail lines. “This legislation would spur important investment in our district, specifically at the Massena Terminal Railroad Company that services businesses like Alcoa,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Promoting economic growth and job creation in the North Country is my top priority in Congress and I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation.” Background: The Short Line Railroad Tax Credit expired on Dec. 31, 2014. This legislation would reauthorize it retroactively for all of this year and for all of 2016. ###
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted against H.R. 3461 – legislation to approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, relating to the nuclear program of Iran. This resolution failed by a bipartisan vote of 162-269. “I strongly oppose any nuclear deal with Iran that would grant the world’s leading sponsor of terror $150 billion in sanctions relief while failing to shut off their path to a nuclear bomb,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. ““In March I joined 366 of my House colleagues in writing to President Obama insisting that any nuclear deal with Iran must last for multiple decades, include full disclosure of Iran’s past efforts to build a nuclear weapon, include a dramatic reduction in the number of centrifuges and include intrusive inspection and verification measures. On all four counts, I believe the deal made by the President does not meet these standards.” “This is a bad deal, and throughout my stops across the district in August, constituents who are heavily engaged on the issue expressed their deep opposition to this agreement,” Congresswoman Stefanik added. “The disapproval of this deal is overwhelming and crosses party lines, therefore I hope President Obama listens to a bipartisan majority of Congress and changes course.” In addition to voting against the Iran nuclear deal, Congresswoman Stefanik voted in support of H.Res. 411 – a resolution finding that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. Section 2 of the bipartisan INARA requires the President to submit to Congress a nuclear agreement with Iran which includes all additional materials, including annexes, appendices, codicils, side agreements and implementing materials made between Iran and the United States and any other nations. Congresswoman Stefanik also supported H.R. 3460 – legislation to suspend the authority of the President to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran. ###
09.04.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the announcement by the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) of several grants for projects across New York’s 21st district: “This is great news for our North Country community and I thank the NBRC for providing this important funding,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “With this funding, organizations throughout our district will be able to upgrade infrastructure, increase access to goods and services, and provide new jobs for North Country families. These grants are tremendous news for the North Country and I applaud the NBRC for this announcement.” Of the slate of approved grants, the St. Lawrence Industrial Development Agency will receive $234,155 to partially fund the rehabilitation of the 46 mile section of rail that will encourage reinvestment at the former paper mill site at Newton Falls and the Benson Mines/J&L Steel Property in Star Lake. The Commission approved a $111,000 grant for the Village of Massena and partners to partially fund the upgrading of existing telecommunications infrastructure in the Village’s commercial district as well as extend the current fiber optic networks to the St. Lawrence Centre Mall, a regional retail and services center for northern New York. In keeping with the region’s outdoor sporting sector, Essex County will receive $234,153 to improve local roads that will provide an attractive and safe venue for the Wilmington area’s growing triathalon and mountain bike endurance races. Fulton County Industrial Development Agency’s application was approved for $184,153 and will partially fund the renovation of one building at the former Tyron Juvenile Detention Facility into a business incubator that will support and house new start up companies. Clarkson University in Potsdam will receive $234,153 to renovate a floor of a downtown campus building that will provide space for up to 15 new business that will start at the location with support from the University’s Shipley Innovation Center. Created by the US Congress in 2008, the NBRC is a federal-state partnership whose mission is to help alleviate economic distress and encourage private sector job creation throughout the northern counties of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York. ###
08.25.2015	Jefferson County, N.Y. – Today, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) and Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) held a listening session at Fort Drum to collect servicemembers and their families’ thoughts and perspectives on proposed changes to retirement and healthcare benefits in the FY16 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This listening session is the result of an amendment to the NDAA offered by Rep. Gibson and supported by Rep. Stefanik to delay changes to these benefits in order to give the Department of Defense an opportunity to hear from servicemembers and their families regarding any impacts, concerns or positive reactions to the proposed changes. “As the proud representative of Fort Drum in Congress and the sole freshman conferee on the NDAA conference committee, this was an important opportunity to gather thoughts directly from servicemembers and their families on these proposed changes,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I look forward to bringing their important perspectives with me to Washington for our negotiations and I thank Fort Drum and Congressman Gibson for their participation today.” “Having lived at Fort Drum with my family and been a proud member of the 10th Mountain Division, I am always delighted to travel to Jefferson County to spend time with troops and their loved ones and share my appreciation for the many sacrifices they make in defense of our freedoms,” said Congressman Gibson. “Today’s session was very helpful. Congresswoman Stefanik and I will continue our efforts to see that reforms to the military retirement system are carried out in the most thoughtful way possible, following ample opportunities for elected officials and the Department of Defense to talk with service members and build consensus across the Armed Forces.” ###
08.19.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led a North Country delegation visit to Montreal August 17th-18th to promote commerce, transportation and tourism for the area. “Promoting economic development and job creation in our district is my top priority and I was proud to lead this trip to meet with Canadian officials on how we can best promote economic opportunity between our two countries,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This trip was an important step to building on our mutual interests of promoting trade and tourism between our regions and I was grateful to have the opportunity to speak with Canadian officials and businesses on behalf of our district.” Congresswoman Stefanik was joined on this delegation trip by New York State Senator Betty Little; North Country Chamber President Garry Douglas; Plattsburgh City Mayor James Calnon; St. Lawrence County IDA Executive Director Patrick Kelly; Clarkson University President Tony Collins; Essex County IDA Executive Director Carol Calabrese; and Susan Matton, Vice President of Economic Development at the North Country Chamber. Among their stops in Montreal, the delegation met with the Honorable Christine St. Pierre, Quebec Minister for International Relations; U.S. Consul General Nina Fite, FPInnovations; Montreal International; Montreal's Circle of Young Leaders; Hydro Quebec; Cargo M; AeroMontreal; and McGill University. For more pictures of their visit, click here. ###
08.11.2015	Ballston Spa, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Chairman of the House Republican Millennial Task Force, held a roundtable with millennial panelists from New York’s 21st district in Ballston Spa. Congresswoman Stefanik is working with the House Republican Policy Committee to develop policies that address concerns facing the millennial generation. “Our district is home to many millennials who can speak to the concerns of this generation, which is now the largest generation in our labor force,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Through a series of hearings and roundtables in the district and in Washington, I want representatives of the millennial generation to have a say in policies that are crafted by our conference and that are passed through Congress. Today’s roundtable in Ballston Spa was an important opportunity for millennial leaders in our district to offer their insights into the policy making process.” The panelists at today’s roundtable included Alyson Slack, Economic Development Analyst, Camoin Associates; Falon Ferraro, Account Services, Fingerpaint; Alyssa Felio, Group Marketing Specialist, Adirondack Coast Visitors Bureau; and Ethan Allen, Machine Shop Manager, Allenwaite Farms. Niche.com, an online resource that offers rankings and statistics on every neighborhood and city in the U.S. to help people find the best places to live, visit, and raise a family, recently released a ranking of the Best Towns in New York for Millennials to live. Based on their data for the number of millennials in the town, job opportunities, and access to bars, restaurants, and affordable housing, New York’s 21st district had four of the top 20 towns – Glens Falls, Watertown, Plattsburgh, and Ogdensburg. ###
08.04.2015	Lake Placid, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) continued her focus on working to ensure that our veterans receive the highest quality care and services they have earned at a Lake Placid Veterans Forum. “Those who put their lives on the line to defend us deserve the best from their government,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “That’s why my office has prioritized our work on behalf of veterans both through casework as well as through pursuing legislative solutions to address the problems facing our nation’s heroes. I was pleased to discuss these issues with so many North Country heroes in Lake Placid today.” This year, Congresswoman Stefanik was pleased to see legislation she supported -- H.R. 203 – the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act – be signed into law that will help provide resources to combat the tragedy of our nation’s veterans committing suicide while waiting for the care they need. Also, with Congresswoman Stefanik’s support, the House has acted and passed: H.R. 1994 -- the VA Accountability Act H.R. 2499 – the Veterans Entrepreneurship Act H.R. 474 – the Homeless Veterans' Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act H.R. 1313 – the Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act H.R. 1382 – the Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act H.R. 1382 – the Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act H.R. 294 -- the Long-Term Care Veterans Choice Act In addition, Congresswoman Stefanik is proud to cosponsor many veterans’ initiatives, including: H.R. 577, To require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to use existing authorities to furnish health care at non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities to veterans who live more than 40 miles driving distance from the closest medical facility of the Department that furnishes the care sought by the veteran H.R. 1247, the Improving Veterans Access to Quality Care Act of 2015 H.R. 2894, the CARE for All Veterans Act Congresswoman Stefanik will continue to advocate on behalf of North Country veterans, and in her first six months, her office successfully recovered over $235,000 in earned veterans benefits for constituents in New York’s 21st district. Additionally, she is working on legislation to support the VA backlog for caregivers. ###
08.03.2015	Plattsburgh, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) pressed the need for stronger economic growth and good paying jobs for North Country citizens at an Industry and International Business Roundtable in Plattsburgh. Congresswoman Stefanik previewed business stops throughout Plattsburgh that she would be making over the course of the day, including at the Georgia Pacific Plattsburgh Tissue Plant, Plattsburgh Airport, Bombardier, and Swarovski Lighting “Promoting economic growth and helping get North Country families back to work is my top priority in Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to have the opportunity to speak with so many business owners and job creators today. We had great conversations about what I’ve been working on so far this year, as well as what they want to see from the federal government so they can grow their businesses and hire more workers.” This Congress, the House has passed several job creating initiatives with Congresswoman Stefanik’s support, including: H.R. 37 -- Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Small Business Burdens Act H.R. 427 -- the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act H.R. 636 – America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act H.R. 3 – Keystone XL Pipeline Act H.R. 30 – Save American Workers Act H.R. 527 – Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act Congresswoman Stefanik is working to create an environment that is pro-job creation and pro-economic development and continues to be a strong advocate for comprehensive tax reform to grow our economy by making our tax code flatter, fairer and simpler. ###
07.28.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act – bipartisan legislation she cosponsored to give Congress a say on any major rule or regulation coming from the executive branch that is estimated by Office of Management and Budget to impact the economy by $100 million or more. “Whenever I travel throughout the district, one of the most common problems I hear from our small business owners and job creators is how out of control regulations are hurting their ability to grow,” said Congresswoman Stefanik.” The REINS Act would simply require that any major rule or regulation coming from the executive branch require a vote before Congress before it can be implemented.” HR 427, the “REINS Act” (Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act) would require that Congress vote on any major rule or regulation coming from the executive branch that is estimated by OMB to impact the economy by $100 million or more. Federal government regulations pose enormous burdens and cost on Americans - $1.88 trillion in 2014 according to one study -- affecting the country’s ability to innovate, grow, and create jobs. The pace and volume of federal regulations and rules is increasing - according to one review, last year’s Federal Register contained 77,687 pages, making it the sixth highest page count in its history. Under the REINS Act, Congress would have 70 legislative days to approve a major rule with economic impact over $100 million (as certified by OMB) and send it to the President for signature, otherwise the rule would not take effect (with process exceptions for national emergencies). One important result of the REINS Act would be to increase Congress' accountability for the content of Federal legal requirements, fostering more deliberation before the Federal Government expands its reach into the lives of Americans through added regulation. According to CBO, last year federal agencies published 80 major rules; based on historical data, over the last five years, the average was 82 major rules a year This legislation passed the House today and will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.23.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act -- common sense legislation that expands flexibility for Pell Grants so that these important education resources are available for qualifying students all year round. “Over the past few months I’ve been working on this legislation as a result of concerns that were raised from my Higher Education roundtables throughout the district, and from Carole McCoy, President of Jefferson Community College,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Right now, Pell Grants are only available for qualifying students during the fall and spring semesters. By expanding the eligibility window to include summer classes and increasing the possible maximum Pell Grant award by 50 percent, we can make sure that low and middle income families have added flexibility to achieve a college degree. As the first member of my immediate family to graduate from college, making higher education more affordable and more accessible is a top priority of mine as a Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. I am proud to introduce this commonsense legislation to help North Country families and students.” Student demographics have changed dramatically in recent decades. Whereas the majority of students used to enroll in a four-year, full-time program fresh out of high school, an increasing number of students – “contemporary students” – are older, have a family, and work full- or part-time jobs. These students are looking to quickly and affordably earn a degree that will help them compete and succeed in the workforce. Unfortunately, outdated higher education programs do not meet the needs of contemporary students. For example, while the Pell Grant provides support for more than one-third of all undergraduate students, the program fails to adequately support those who want to complete their studies more quickly by taking additional courses beyond the traditional academic year. Instead, students who receive Pell Grants are bound to a rigid system based on a six-year, two-semester timeline – discouraging many students from pursing higher education altogether. To modernize the Pell Grant program for all students, Reps. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), and Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX) have introduced the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act. This bipartisan legislation will help students complete a postsecondary education more quickly and at a lower cost. What they’re saying: Carole A. McCoy, President, Jefferson Community College: “The Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act will positively impact low income students’ ability to meet their educational goals. With access to Pell during the summer months, students may continue their studies year-round and accelerate degree completion. We believe adult students, in particular, who desire to complete their degree and enter the workplace as quickly as possible will greatly benefit from the act. Additionally an increase in the annual Pell maximum helps to make higher education more affordable for the neediest students who work diligently throughout the year to obtain their educational credentials and graduate.” Tony G. Collins, President, Clarkson University: “As an institution with more than 30% of our student body eligible for Pell awards, Clarkson University applauds Congresswoman Stefanik’s introduction of the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act. This legislation addresses the needs of contemporary students by giving them more options on when they complete degree requirements and gets them into the workplace faster. Clarkson students take a semester off to pursue internships or cooperative educational experience in order to apply classroom learning, gain practical skills, and confirm further specialization of knowledge in upper level courses. By providing year round flexibility in accessing aid, this Act allows students to stay on pace to graduate in four years or less and immediately compete for the best jobs.” Kristine Duffy, President, SUNY Adirondack: "I support the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act introduced by Congresswoman Stefanik. Allowing our students to utilize PELL to continuously enroll through a summer session should support the Completion Agenda in a very tangible way and recognizes the need to support our under resourced students to achieve their goals. At SUNY Adirondack nearly 50% of our students receive a PELL grant and this legislation would remove one significant barrier to completion." Todd Moravec, Director of Student Financial Services, SUNY College at Plattsburgh: “By introducing the Flexible Pell Grant for 21st Century Students Act, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik is providing high-need students with a means to graduate faster and accumulate less student debt along the way.” THE FLEXIBLE PELL GRANT FOR 21ST CENTURY STUDENTS ACT: Provides students the flexibility to draw Pell Grant funds at an accelerated pace in order to pay for additional courses within an award year. Encourages students to complete degrees more quickly, leading to less debt and faster entry into the workforce. Maintains maximum lifetime Pell Grant award eligible students can receive over the course of their education. Assists students in making informed decisions about their academic progress by directing the Secretary of Education to provide an individualized federal financial aid status reports to each student annually. ###
07.21.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement in support of the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority for moving forward with bid openings today for the proposed FAA airport expansion project: “I am pleased that the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority continues to make progress on this important project that would significantly help our local economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The runway extension plan at Ogdensburg International Airport would help facilitate low fare airline service to the region, expanding commerce, tourism and our local economy. I am proud to support this project and I urge the FAA to allocate these important funds to begin providing construction jobs and low air fare to our North Country residents.” Today bid openings will begin for construction of the proposed airport expansion project at Ogdensburg International Airport. Right now the FAA is considering the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority’s application for more than $14 million for this runway extension project. After the proposed expansion, the airport will support between 125 and 135 jobs, compared to 53 in 2010. In addition, the total amount of direct and indirect economic activity that Ogdensburg International Airport produces could nearly double by 2017. The runway expansion will also bring an estimated 38,000 new passengers and their resources into the North Country. ###
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Be Open Act – commonsense legislation to help ensure that employer-sponsored coverage – the backbone of the US health care system – remains a competitive option for employees. “I am proud to introduce this commonsense legislation to help ease an unnecessary and punitive burden placed on employees and employers under the Affordable Care Act,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This legislation simply repeals an unnecessary and duplicative part of this law that reduces choice in health coverage and creates confusion that can lead to significant tax penalties on both the employee and employer. I remain committed to achieving a healthcare system that works for North Country families and businesses, and this commonsense legislation is one step in that direction.” The Be Open Act would repeal a requirement under the Affordable Care Act that new employees of certain employers be automatically enrolled in the employer’s health benefits plan. The text of this legislation can be found here. Reps. Richard Hudson (R-NC-08) and Tim Walberg (R-MI-07) are original cosponsors of this legislation. In addition, this legislation has the support of industry groups such as the American Builders and Contractors, the National Association of Convenience Stores, the National Grocers Association, and the National Restaurant Federation, among others. Additional Information: Under section 1511 of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) (section 18A of Fair Labor Standards Act), employers with more than 200 full-time employees must automatically enroll a new full-time employee in a health plan within 90 days if he or she fails to choose or decline coverage. Employers are also required to continue to enroll current employees in a health plan. This requirement is in addition to the ACA’s individual and employer mandates, and other employee benefit laws. Implications to employees health needs and paychecks Auto-enrollment does not provide employees the opportunity to select the coverage that best meets their own health care needs Auto-enrollment of employees into coverage could result in coverage that is unaffordable to an employee and lead to unanticipated reductions in take home pay; in some cases, premiums could exceed the amount of the paycheck Young adults, seniors, and veterans and their family members who are enrolled in other coverage such as a parent’s or spouse’s plan, Tricare or Medicaid will experience a disproportionate impact from auto-enrollment Unlike auto-enrollment in a 401K plan, in which contributions that are often based on a percentage of wages earned and belong to an employee and increase in value over time, health insurance premium contributions are fixed and immediately expended even if the employee is unaware of the coverage and does not use it Employees who are double-enrolled in coverage are potentially faced with paying multiple health premiums, paying a penalty to the plan they are seeking to cancel and/or triggering a tax penalty Employers may also be paying premium shares for coverage the employee does not want or will not use Potential tax penalty liability for employees under auto-enrollment Auto-enrollment could trigger ACA tax penalties under the individual mandate (Code section 36B) for employees that are receiving tax-credits for coverage through an Exchange Auto-enrollment into a non-high deductible health plan could trigger tax penalties under Code section 223 for employees contributing to a health savings account (HSA) Redundant and conflicts with the ACA and other federal laws Auto-enrollment is unnecessary and duplicative to the ACA’s individual and employer mandates Provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA), the Internal Revenue Code and the FLSA already require plan sponsors to provide multiple notices and opportunities to opt-in or out of coverage Employers already provide comprehensive assistance and significant resources to help employees enroll and take advantage of the benefits available to them Mandatory auto-enrollment would likely result in confusion between employers’ and employees’ coverage responsibilities ###
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement commending New York State’s efforts to combat invasive species: “Our environment is our life blood in upstate New York,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Preserving and protecting our natural ecological wonders is a top priority for New York elected officials at every level, and I commend Governor Cuomo, the State of New York, as well as counties and cities across the state for taking the initiative this week to highlight the threats posed by invasive species. “At the federal level, I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 223, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act – bipartisan legislation to protect these natural treasures and prevent and control invasive species and their impacts on these natural habitats. “Our environment must be protected for the welfare of our community, our economy, and for future generations.” The text of H.R. 223, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act, can be found here. ###
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that the U.S. Department of Education is awarding FY 2015 Grants through the TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) Program to several colleges and universities in New York’s 21st district: “The North Country is home to many excellent institutions of higher education and I applaud the U.S. Department of Education for awarding these grants,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “As a Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, ensuring that our students have an opportunity to achieve a college degree is a top priority of mine in Congress and I know these grants will go a long way to helping students succeed.” The U.S. Department of Education announced TRIO awards for Fulton Montgomery Community College, Paul Smith’s College, SUNY Potsdam, Jefferson Community College, Clarkson University, SUNY Plattsburgh and SUNY College of Technology at Canton. For more information on the TRIO Student Support Services Program, click here. ###
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to thank the law enforcement and community involved in the NY-21 prison break to find two convicted killers who escaped from Clinton Correctional Facility. Below is a transcript of her remarks. or click here for video. Mr. Speaker, as Americans across this country know, my district was the unfortunate home of a recent manhunt that captured the attention of our country. For more than three weeks, two killers remained at large in our North Country community after escaping from Clinton Correctional Facility. During this time period, hundreds and hundreds of brave law enforcement officers worked diligently to find these escaped convicts and protect our community. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank these brave law enforcement officers who risked their safety to protect the families in our neighborhoods. And I rise to thank our local communities for their patience and support during this difficult time. Going forward, we must find answers as to how this prison break occurred and do what is needed to stop this from ever happening again. But for now, our North Country community can sleep safer knowing these two killers are no longer at large. Thank you Mr. Speaker, and I yield back. ###
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C – Six months into office, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s offices are proudly serving constituents in New York’s 21st district. What they’re saying: “I am a very happy man right now. Thanks to Congresswoman Elise Stefanik and her staff, I received a much needed total right knee replacement. My son-in-law made several calls to the Veterans Affairs Choice Program for surgery approval without much success. He finally made the right call to Ms. Stefanik's Glens Falls office. Ms. Stefanik travelled to my hometown in Tupper Lake and met with me and other fellow veterans. There was no timetable for her departure . She was a great listener and did not leave until we all had a chance to air our many concerns. Shortly after Ms. Stefanik's involvement I received permission from the VA's Choice Program to have my surgery. I was especially touched to receive a phone call from Ms. Stefanik's office a few days after my operation to inquire how I was feeling. Congresswoman Stefanik has gained my utmost respect and full support the old fashion way. She earned it.” Herbert “Bucky” Kentile Tupper Lake, NY “It was apparent that our Congresswoman spent a great deal of input in order to offer her assistance in such a way that showed a most positive, ethical, determined, and truly concerned effort on her part just to help me. I was so impressed that someone of her stature would be so inclined to help the citizens she serves on a level surpassing so much more than simply performing her duties. She proved to me that she possesses the kind of leadership qualities we desperately need today. It is about time we have a leader like Elise Stefanik.” Dr. Susan Trentecoste Lake Luzerne, NY “After 8 months of denied health care claims, I, as a retired federal government employee, requested assistance from Congresswoman Stefanik. The Congresswoman and her staff were able to resolve the issues and activate the long-awaited federal retirement benefit this summer.” Jane Gore Chazy, NY “I can definitely say that your office is: professional, courteous, reliable, helped my husband and I out in a medical time of need, can be counted on when you need help when no one else will and follows up with phone calls to see how the situation is progressing, they listen to and care about the people that they serve. I am indebted to Congresswoman Stefanik and her office staff for their help.” Joan Ducharme Plattsburgh, NY ###
07.09.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the force structure cuts from Fort Drum and the Army’s 10th Mountain Division due to sequester: “This is incredible news for Fort Drum and our entire North Country community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Fort Drum is a critical installation for our community, our state and the security of our nation, and I am grateful that the Army has spared this pivotal installation and the 10th Mountain Division from significant reductions in force structure like those seen at other bases across the country. “I thank the entire New York delegation, including Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, for joining me in support of Fort Drum during this spring’s listening session, and I thank the FDRLO and entire Fort Drum community for all the work they put in to make sure the Army understands just how vital Fort Drum is to our state. Most importantly, thank you to the service men and women of the 10th Mountain Division who continue answering the call of duty to protect our national security. “While this news is welcome and our community can breathe a sigh of relief, the arbitrary cuts made to military installations across the country are a reminder that we must redouble our efforts to end the arbitrary sequester cuts that continue to wreak havoc on our national defense. As the proud Representative of New York’s 21st District, and Vice Chair of House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, I remain committed to leading this fight on behalf of Fort Drum.” Background: Rep. Stefanik Leads Letter from Entire New York Congressional Delegation to Secretary of Defense on Fort Drum Ahead of Listening Session ###
07.08.2015	Washington, D.C – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement commending Senator Patty Ritchie for securing $650,000 in funding to help Fort Drum: “Fort Drum is critical to our North Country community and economy, and I commend Senator Ritchie for her work to secure this important funding,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Anything we can do to help this installation and the brave men and women who serve in the 10th Mountain Division is important to our community and I am so glad to have partners like Senator Ritchie in the State Legislature to help protect Fort Drum.” ###
06.28.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement after the conclusion of the manhunt to find Richard Matt and David Sweat: “Our North Country community can sleep safer knowing these two killers are no longer at large,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I thank the law enforcement officials involved for their diligence and our local communities for providing their support. Going forward, we must find answers as to how this prison break occurred and do what is needed to stop this from ever happening again.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice-Chair on the Subcommittee on Readiness, was selected by Speaker John Boehner (R-OH-08) as the only freshman negotiator to serve on the formal House-Senate conference committee charged with resolving differences over the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act. “I thank Speaker Boehner and Chairman Thornberry for the privilege of serving on this conference committee as a freshman Member,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The federal government has no greater role than providing for our nation’s defense, and I look forward to working together with my fellow conferees on both sides of the aisle to negotiate a strong NDAA that will give our troops the resources they need to keep our nation safe.” “Congresswoman Stefanik has quickly impressed her colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee with her commitment to being a strong advocate for Fort Drum and working on both sides of the aisle to promote a strong national defense,” House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13) said. “I look forward to working alongside her during these negotiations and know that the conference will be well served by her strong work ethic and desire to find common ground." ###
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s ruling on King v. Burwell: “I remain committed to helping North Country families receive access to high quality, affordable healthcare,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Affordable Care Act has sadly caused too many to have to make painful healthcare decisions and has hurt businesses seeking to expand and hire new workers. I will continue to advocate in Congress to reduce this law’s burdensome mandates, taxes and penalties and to promote choice in healthcare delivery so that North Country families can get access to high quality, patient-centered healthcare and so that our small businesses can grow.” ###
06.19.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced the launch of her new mobile office that will help provide constituent services to residents across New York’s 21st district. “One of my key goals as the Representative of New York’s 21st district is to ensure that our residents have unparalleled access to constituent services,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Our district is one of the largest districts on the East Coast, and in order to make sure everyone who needs our help can be served, I’m proud to launch this mobile office to help North Country residents who reside in areas across the district. Please let us know how we can be of service to you.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s mobile office hours will be updated on her website here. The following is a schedule of upcoming mobile office hours and locations – for a list of constituent services our office provides, click here. Town of Moreau – Wednesday, 24 JUNE 2015 – 1:00-3:00 PM Moreau Municipal Complex 351 Reynolds Road Moreau, NY 12828 Town of Salem – Thursday, 25 JUNE 2015 – 11:00 AM-1:00 PM Salem Town Hall 214 Main Street Salem, NY 12865 Town of Lake Luzerne – Monday, 29 JUNE 2015 – 11:00 AM-1:00 PM Lake Luzerne Town Hall 539 Lake Avenue Lake Luzerne, NY 12846 ###
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 160 – the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015 – legislation she cosponsored to repeal the Affordable Care Act’s excise tax on medical device manufacturers. In March, Congresswoman Stefanik led a letter from a bipartisan group of 43 freshman lawmakers to Speaker John Boehner calling for a vote to repeal this tax. “This is an extremely important issue for our district, especially in Warren County, home of what is called ‘catheter valley’ because of the numerous catheter manufacturers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan legislation would repeal the Affordable Care Act’s onerous medical device tax that is limiting access to the healthcare devices that North Country families need and undermining the medical device industry that is so important to our local economy. Furthermore, repealing this legislation would help these important small businesses create jobs for North Country families and protect employees who are currently at risk from this job killing tax. I commend the House for passing this important legislation today and call on the Senate to act swiftly to send this to the President’s desk.” The Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015 passed out of the House by a vote of 280-140. ###
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015. This legislation reauthorizes Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and establishes a process for negotiating and considering trade agreements that is needed in order for U.S. trade negotiators to get the best deal possible by giving our trading partners confidence to put their best offer forward. “From day one, my key priority in Congress has been to help our economy grow and to help North Country families find good, high paying jobs,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is why I was proud to vote in support of this bipartisan measure to promote free trade and help our North Country businesses expand in the global marketplace. Simply put, TPA is a tool that helps the United States enter into trade agreements with other countries around the globe as we seek to lower trade barriers and help our businesses and manufacturers sell their products to the 95 percent of the global marketplace that lives outside our borders. “Trade is an invaluable part of our American economy. In fact, trade supports one in five jobs in the United States, and in New York, international trade supports as many as 2.6 million jobs. Furthermore, and contrary to what some have suggested, TPA does not provide President Obama the power to negotiate secret trade deals behind closed doors. In fact, TPA puts Congress in the driver’s seat at the front end of trade negotiations by allowing us to set negotiating priorities through nearly 150 clear and ambitious objectives, like rules for intellectual property rights, agricultural trade, labor standards, and environmental protections. “Increasing international trade can be a significant boon to our North Country economy and traditionally has been an issue with strong, bipartisan support. I will continue to work my hardest in Congress to help our economy grow and to help North Country families find good paying jobs.” The Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 includes historic transparency measures and will require the President to publish the text of any trade agreement in an open and transparent fashion for 60 days for Congress and the public to review before he can sign it. Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce, said: “There are few areas where international business is as important a part of the present and future as the North Country, and Congresswoman Stefanik has supported jobs in our region by her vote for TPA. From paper to machinery, lighting fixtures to plastics, dairy products to maple syrup, we are an exporting region with real opportunities for more exporting with more open markets. The world is recognizing the North Country as a place to invest and produce, including Plattsburgh's recent ranking by fDi Magazine as the #2 micro city of the future. More open markets through a process of strong negotiation that TPA simply allows to take place, with proposed agreements still subject to debate and Congressional action, keeps our economy in the global market where the greatest growth will come in the decades ahead." Dean Norton, New York Farm Bureau president, said, “Farms in the North Country, including the large dairy sector, are competing with farmers from around the world. It is imperative that we have a fair playing field to be able to sell our quality products and to increase farm exports. New York Farm Bureau commends Rep. Stefanik on her vote for TPA. In the end, strong trade policy will boost farm revenue and support jobs in our rural economy.” Mark S. Sutton, Chairman and CEO of International Paper, said, "Global trade is an important component of our business as we export nearly 25% of our U.S. manufactured products with approximately 8,000 International Paper jobs linked to exports. The Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA-2015) will help open markets for International Paper products, increase our exports and create new opportunities for our customers." Joseph M. DeVivo, President and Chief Executive Officer of AngioDynamics, said, “I know first-hand how important access to global markets is to our economy. In New York, the medical technology sector supports over 19,000 good paying jobs, with my company, Angiodynamics, providing 1,000 of those jobs in upstate New York. I especially appreciate the efforts of U.S. Rep. Elise Stefanik, who is steadfastly working on our behalf to eliminate barriers and give U.S. businesses a more level playing field when we enter new markets, which will fuel job growth here in New York." The text of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 can be read here. Additionally, a recent Reuters/Ipsos poll, conducted May 21-27, “found that 56 percent of Americans support new trade deals to promote the sale of U.S. goods overseas, with just 13 percent opposed.” A fact sheet on this legislation can be found here. ###
06.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement urging the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to approve funds to complete the Ogdensburg International Airport’s proposed runway extension: “The runway extension plan at Ogdensburg International Airport would help facilitate low fare airline service to the region, expanding commerce, tourism and our local economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to meet with representatives of the FAA recently in my Washington office to discuss this important project, and I urge the FAA to allocate these important funds to immediately begin providing construction jobs and low air fare to our North Country residents.” Right now the FAA is considering the Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority’s application for more than $14 million for this runway extension project. After the proposed expansion, the airport will support between 125 and 135 jobs, compared to 53 in 2010. In addition, the total amount of direct and indirect economic activity that Ogdensburg International Airport produces could nearly double by 2017. The runway expansion will also bring an estimated 38,000 new passengers and their resources into the North Country. ###
05.26.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has recently cosponsored two pieces of good governance legislation, including H.Res.250 - legislation expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Congress should pass no law that would exempt from its obligations or provide any other special consideration to elected or appointed Federal officials or any other Federal employee. “Lawmakers should be subject to the same laws that they write for the American people, and I am proud to cosponsor this commonsense piece of legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I remain committed to honoring my pledges to the constituents of New York’s 21st district, which means continuing to support this type of good governance legislation and providing transparency to the issues I am working on in Congress.” In addition, Congresswoman Stefanik recently cosponsored H.Res.17 -- the 'Stay on Schedule Resolution – legislation to prohibit the House from taking August recess unless there was agreement by July 31 on all regular appropriations bills for the coming federal fiscal year. “I am proud of the work the House has done so far on behalf of the American people,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “We are off to a strong pace passing legislation, but in order to make sure we are getting our jobs done here in Congress, I have cosponsored this resolution to make sure that our work is done before Congress breaks for the August district work period. I pledged to work my hardest on behalf of the constituents of New York’s 21st district and will continue to work to live up to that promise.” ###
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced the Common Sense Waiver Act -- legislation that ensures local governments have the authority they need to protect their citizens and keep their communities safe by working to make sure that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations do not hinder the removal of unsafe buildings. “Small towns across the country have buildings that are a danger to our neighbors and a hazard to our environment,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Recently, the town of Malone, New York, brought this important issue to my attention as they face crumbling infrastructure and a specific building that may soon collapse into a local stream. Local governments know what is best for their communities and this legislation would ensure that local governments are able to take the appropriate action when the EPA will not. This was a priority of my predecessor, Congressman Bill Owens, and I am proud to introduce this legislation in the 114th Congress.” "We thank Congresswoman Stefanik for listening to us and to our partners in Malone," said Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "This proposal would do just what it says. Allow common sense to prevail when communities such as Malone, and many others dealing with collapsing structures, need to move quickly and cost effectively to address dangerous situations without compromising real environmental concerns. Public process needs to serve the public interest and not confound it, and this act is a practical step in that direction and can help North Country communities, taxpayers and residents." The Common Sense Waiver Act would allow, at the request of state or local government, the Administrator of the EPA to waive any emission standard or other requirement under section 112 of the Clean Air Act applicable to the control of asbestos emissions in the demolition or renovation of a building. A requested waiver may be approved if the building is condemned or there is a reasonable expectation of the building’s structural failure. Additionally, all waivers must be approved or disapproved within 90 days. Any applications not responded to within 90 days will be deemed approved. Click here for text of the bill. ###
05.19.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – On Wednesday, May 20th, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik’s (R-NY-21) office will co-host a jobs fair from 2pm-6pm with the Regional Office of Sustainable Tourism (ROOST) for Lake Placid. We encourage all those looking for part-time, seasonal or full time participants to join us on Wednesday, May 20th from 2pm-6pm. What: Lake Placid Jobs Fair Hosted by ROOST and Congresswoman Stefanik’s Office When: From 2 to 6 p.m. on Wednesday, May 20th Where: 2nd floor of the Conference Center at Lake Placid For your business to participate, call Bethany at 518.523.2445 or email her at Bethany@roostadk.com with a completed form: LP-JobFair-Application Summer 2015. ###
05.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, announced that she will co-chair the Congressional STEAM (STEM+Arts and Design) Caucus alongside Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR-01). The caucus will host briefings and advocate for policy changes that will encourage educators to integrate arts, broadly defined, with traditional Science, Technology, Engineering and Math curriculum. The goal is to encourage the creativity needed to drive our innovation economy forward. “I’m excited to work with Congresswoman Bonamici and the STEAM Caucus,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “By incorporating the artist’s perspective into the important work being done in the STEM fields, we can challenge our students to think outside the box and create new solutions to complex problems. The work being done by these students will be of critical importance to our 21st century economy, both in New York’s 21st district, and across the country.” “Congresswoman Stefanik will be an excellent co-chair and advocate for STEAM education," Congresswoman Bonamici said. "We will be working with the caucus to highlight how STEAM can help students develop the skills needed in an economy that thrives on innovation. Students benefit from a well-rounded education, and incorporating arts and design into STEM subjects helps students gain a fuller understanding of the material and think creatively.” Caucus members will work to increase awareness of the importance of STEAM education and explore new strategies to advocate for STEAM programs. ###
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, released the following statement after H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for 2016, was passed by the full House by a bipartisan vote of 269-151. “The federal government has no greater role than providing for our national defense, and I am very proud that the House has passed this vital piece of legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I commend Chairman Thornberry for his leadership and our Subcommittee Chairs for their exhaustive efforts on this legislation that makes important steps to enhance and strengthen our military.” $30 Million Provided for East Coast Missile Defense Site “Specifically, I am very proud that $30 million for the planning, design and construction of an East Coast Missile Defense Site was included in the NDAA,” added Stefanik. “Missile defense shields our nation from hostile incoming warheads, and with the escalation of threats by rogue nations, like North Korea and Iran, the United States must be ready -- not just to retaliate -- but to actually stop an attack.” In addition, Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added an amendment to the MilCon Appropriations bill that passed the House to include this funding as well. Fort Drum has been identified as one potential location for an East Coast Missile Defense Site and the Pentagon estimates that the base would employ up to 1,800 military and civilian personnel and contractors if it were selected. Stefanik Amendment on Army’s Force Structure Passes House The House also included an amendment offered by Congresswoman Stefanik and Congressman John Fleming (R-LA-4) that would require the Department of Defense to analyze further reductions to the U.S. Army’s Force Structure. “Since September 11th, 2001, the 10th Mountain Division has been the most actively deployed division to Iraq and Afghanistan and are currently there serving our nation in these highly kinetic combat zones,” added Stefanik. “We are asking our brave service men and women to do more with less over and over again. Representing such a high operational tempo unit, I am truly concerned about long-term impacts on force structure due the budget cap constraints, on what the Department of Defense referred to as severe deployment demands.” Stefanik Leads on Including $19 million for Fort Drum NCO Academy “I am also pleased that this legislation provides funding for the NCO Academy at Fort Drum. This project is required to provide adequate barracks, instructional, and operational space meeting current standards for NCO training. “More must be done to strengthen our national defense, but this legislation is a step in the right direction and I am proud to see it pass the House,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Fights for BRAC HUBzones Congresswoman Stefanik also successfully had an amendment added to the NDAA in Committee that will adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. This amendment extends the length of time for eligibility to either eight years or until the next census data is released, whichever is longer, giving the former military base adequate time to take advantage of the HUBZone program. “The North Country community knows all too well the devastating effects that base closures can have on local economies after the Plattsburgh Air Force Base closed in 1995,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to introduce this important amendment to the NDAA that would expand access to the HUBZone program to the communities of recently closed military bases and help protect local economies.” ###
05.08.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that Keely O’Connor of Carthage Central High School has won the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 21st District for her piece, The Beauty of a Cold Winter’s Day. “I am thrilled to announce that Keely’s piece will be displayed for a full year at the U.S. Capitol, proudly representing the talent of our North Country artists,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The volume of amazing art that was submitted for this contest was overwhelming and I thank each and every student that participated. The North Country is a proud home to many gifted students and I look forward to continuing this competition next year.” Keely’s art was one of four finalists selected by a committee from 59 total pieces of art submitted to Stefanik’s Glens Falls, Watertown and Plattsburgh district offices. In addition to having her work showcased at the Capitol, Keely will also have the opportunity to visit Washington for a reception in June. The other semi-finalists will have the opportunity to have their work showcased in Congresswoman Stefanik’s district offices for the next year. To view the semi-finalists, click here. ###
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for 2016, was passed by the Committee by a vote of 60-2. “I am very proud of the work my colleagues and I on the House Armed Services Committee have done on this vital piece of legislation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The federal government has no greater role than providing for our national defense, and I am very pleased that this legislation makes important steps to enhance and strengthen our military.” $30 Million Provided for East Coast Missile Defense Site “Specifically, I am very proud that $30 million for the planning, design and construction of an East Coast Missile Defense Site was included in the NDAA,” added Stefanik. “Missile defense shields our nation from hostile incoming warheads, and with the escalation of threats by rogue nations, like North Korea and Iran, the United States must be ready -- not just to retaliate -- but to actually stop an attack.” In addition, yesterday Congresswoman Stefanik successfully added an amendment to the MilCon Appropriations bill that is pending before the House to include this funding as well. Fort Drum has been identified as one potential location for an East Coast Missile Defense Site and the Pentagon estimates that the base would employ up to 1,800 military and civilian personnel and contractors if it were selected. Stefanik Leads on Including $19 million for Fort Drum NCO Academy “I am also pleased that this legislation provides funding for the NCO Academy at Fort Drum. This project is required to provide adequate barracks, instructional, and operational space meeting current standards for NCO training. “More must be done to strengthen our national defense, but this legislation is a step in the right direction. I look forward to seeing it come to the House floor in the coming weeks,” said Stefanik. Stefanik Fights for BRAC HUBzones Congresswoman Stefanik also successfully had an amendment added to the NDAA that will adjust the requirements of the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program under the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Act. This amendment extends the length of time for eligibility to either eight years or until the next census data is released, whichever is longer, giving the former military base adequate time to take advantage of the HUBZone program. “The North Country community knows all too well the devastating effects that base closures can have on local economies after the Plattsburgh Air Force Base closed in 1995,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I was pleased to introduce this important amendment to the NDAA that would expand access to the HUBZone program to the communities of recently closed military bases and help protect local economies. I thank my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee for passing this important amendment.” ###
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) offered her first Amendment as a Member of the House of Representatives. Her amendment was offered to H.R. 2029 -- the FY 2016 Military Construction & Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act – and provides $30 million for the planning, design and construction of an additional missile defense site. The bipartisan amendment was adopted unanimously by voice vote and the House is scheduled to consider the complete package this evening. Click here for video of Congresswoman Stefanik’s statement introducing the amendment, or read the transcript below: Thank you, Mme. Chair. I would also like to thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. Dent and his staff, for allowing this important discussion of an East Coast Missile Defense Site, as well as the gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Turner, for his continued efforts and support. Mme. Chair, my amendment would provide for the planning, design, and construction of an additional missile defense site. Simply put, missile defense shields our nation from hostile incoming warheads, and with the escalation of threats by rogue nations, like North Korea and Iran, the United States must be ready -- not just to retaliate, but to actually stop an attack. We must be able to defend our nation and shoot it down. North Korea does indeed have a nuclear weapons capability and is a real concern given their unstable and erratic behavior. Iran has clearly demonstrated key technologies required for ICBM development. This is about maintaining our nation’s readiness, and an East Coast Missile Defense Site provides increased battle space, more decision time, increased reliability, more inventory and a different angle of intercept. General Jacoby stated that a third site would give him an increased battle space and increased opportunity for him to engage threats from either Iran or North Korea. An East Coast Missile Defense Site would increase our nation's defense capability against those very real threats. M. Chairman, this amendment provides for the security and protection that our nation needs and now I would like to yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Turner. ###
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation that Congresswoman Stefanik cosponsored would amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the estate and generation-skipping transfer tax, commonly referred to as the “death tax”. “Whenever I travel throughout our district, one of the key tax issues that I have heard about from small businesses and the agriculture community is the negative impact that the Death Tax continues to have on our economy,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I remain committed to working to achieve comprehensive tax reform to make our tax code flatter, fairer and simpler, and repealing the death tax is one commonsense reform we can make to protect North Country small businesses and family farms.” Under current law, the Federal Government takes 40% from taxable estates when a person dies. The death tax is a major reason why family farms and businesses are not able to be passed down from generation to generation. Repealing this tax would allow more North Country farms and businesses to stay in North Country families. This legislation passed the House by a vote of 240-179 and will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. ###
04.16.2015	In Case You Missed It: Congresswoman Stefanik’s Op-Ed in Denton Publications: 100 Day Report When I ran for Congress, I pledged to work my hardest on behalf of New York’s 21st District in Washington. Now that I am one hundred days into office, I am happy to report that we have hit the ground running on your behalf. In fact, I am proud to have helped the House of Representatives pass dozens of pieces of legislation that would help North Country families and businesses. For instance, with my support, the House has passed the Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Small Business Burdens Act and the Regulatory Accountability Act – both of which are bipartisan bills to reduce burdensome federal regulations to help our small businesses grow and get people back to work. We have passed legislation aimed at improving “529” college savings plans so that families can better save for higher education and reduce the debt that too often comes with a college degree. And I was proud to support the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act -- important legislation that President Obama has signed into law that will help provide resources to help combat the tragedy of our nation’s veterans committing suicide while waiting for the care they need. Most recently I was proud to join Congressman Chris Gibson as an original cosponsor of the Family Farm Relief Act of 2015 – legislation that would help North Country farmers by making reforms to our H-2A visa program. This legislation would make it significantly easier for farmers to find, hire, and keep H-2A workers. When I ran for Congress I pledged to reach across the aisle and work on bipartisan solutions for our district. Last month I was proud to lead the entire New York Congressional Delegation’s effort to defend Fort Drum against the devastating sequester cuts that threaten this installation, and in turn, threaten our local economy, our state and the security of our nation. Recently I led a bipartisan effort on behalf of 43 Freshmen lawmakers to urge Speaker John Boehner to fast track consideration of H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act. This bipartisan legislation would repeal the Affordable Care Act’s onerous medical device tax that is limiting access to the healthcare devices that North Country families need and undermining the medical device industry that is so important to our local economy. This is an extremely important issue for our district, especially in Warren County, home of what is called "catheter valley" because of the numerous catheter manufacturers. Read Congresswoman’s Stefanik’s Op-Ed in full on Denton Publication’s website here. ###
04.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 21st district. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 21st District. “The North Country is home to many gifted students and the Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity for them to showcase their talents,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The winner of this competition will have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year where it will be seen by visitors from around the world. I look forward to seeing what our students can create!” Artwork entered in the contest must be original in execution, may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches, 4 inches in depth and cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. The artwork may be: Paintings - including oil, acrylics and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers Collage (must be 2 dimensional) Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen and block prints Mixed Media – use of two or more mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor Computer Generated Art Photography Art submissions along with a Congressional release form must be submitted to one of Congresswoman Stefanik’s district office locations no later than April 24, 2015. The Congressional release form can be found here and more information about the competitions rules and guidelines is posted here. ###
03.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), Freshman Representative to the Policy Committee, led a bipartisan group of freshmen lawmakers in sending a letter to Speaker John Boehner (R-OH-08) urging him to bring H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, up for a vote in the House. The lawmakers wrote: We write to urge you to consider fast-tracking consideration of H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, authored by our colleague Erik Paulsen. It is critical that the House acts to protect the medical device industry prior to any action by the United States Supreme Court this spring. This legislation enjoys broad bipartisan support as members of both parties recognize the impact this has on our constituents, both in access to the healthcare devices they need, and in hundreds of thousands employed by the industry. The medical device industry directly employs 400,000 Americans. The industry is primarily comprised of small businesses and American companies represent 38% of the global market. Of the 6,500 medical device manufacturers in the United States, 80% employ fewer than 50 employees. The 2.3% tax on revenue, rather than income, means that the U.S. device industry is subject to one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. And many smaller early-stage companies must pay the tax even though they are years away from becoming profitable. As companies look to make cuts to offset the tax, one of the first items to go is research and development. This undermines the future of the industry, and puts the discovery of new breakthrough medical technologies at risk. Additionally, the tax revenue generated from medical devices is approximately $2 billion annually. Relative to the federal budget, this represents roughly one half of one tenth of one percent of government spending. Repealing the tax will not have a meaningful impact on the budget, but will be significant for these small businesses and their ability to continue to grow. As freshmen members, we made a promise to our constituents to usher in a new era of cooperation in order to restore faith in our government institutions. Repealing the medical device tax is too important to our constituents and small businesses not to act immediately, and proves that we can come together with solutions. We ask that you consider fast-tracking consideration of H.R. 160 during the three-week Congressional work period in April and work with us to include repeal in any legislative packages that develop this year in order to give our nation’s small businesses the certainty they need. For a digital copy of the letter, click here. Joining Congresswoman Stefanik on the letter were Reps. Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Brad Ashford (NE-02), Brian Babin (TX-36), Mike Bishop (MI-08), Rod Blum (IA-01), Mike Bost (IL-12), Dave Brat (VA-07), Ken Buck (CO-04), E.L “Buddy” Carter (GA-01), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), Ryan Costello (PA-06), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Robert Dold (IL-10), Tom Emmer (MN-06), Gwen Graham (FL-02), Frank Guinta (NH-01), Crescent Hardy (NV-04), Jody Hice (GA-10), French Hill (AR-02), Will Hurd (TX-23), Evan Jenkins (WV-03), John Katko (NY-24), Steve Knight (CA-25), Mia Love (UT-04), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Tom MacArthur (NJ-03), Martha McSally (AZ-02), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Gary Palmer (AL-06), Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), John Ratcliffe (TX-04), David Rouzer (NC-07), Steve Russell (OK-05), Dave Trott (MI-11), Mark Walker (NC-06), Mimi Walters (CA-45), Bruce Westerman (AR-04), David Young (IA-03), Ryan Zinke (MT). ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on the news that Secretary of Defense Ash Carter will be visiting For Drum next week: “I am very pleased that Secretary Carter is visiting Fort Drum on Monday, and I look forward to welcoming him in person,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I recently had the privilege of leading the entire delegation in sending the Secretary a letter outlining the importance of this vital installation and this will be a great opportunity for him to see it first-hand and to visit with the soldiers and their families that make the installation so great.” ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act -- legislation that would permanently replace the Medicare physician Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. This legislation passed out of the House by a vote of 392-37. “This important, bipartisan legislation puts an end to the 12 year cycle of ‘doc fix’ bills and gives doctors and hospitals a reprieve from the uncertainty they have faced waiting for Congress to approve short term patches, seventeen of which have been passed over the last several years, many reducing payments to hospitals to cover the cost of the patches. Since 2003, nearly $170 billion in short-term patches has been spent to avoid unsustainable cuts imposed by the flawed SGR.” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Earlier this week, I had a robust conversation with hospital officials in New York’s 21st district who are very pleased that this legislation will fully protect hospital outpatient clinics, rural payments, and give a two and a half year extension of the Medicare Dependent Hospital and Medicare Low Volume programs. These programs are critical to healthcare providers in my district and I hope the Senate acts swiftly to send this legislation to the President.” New York’s 21st district is home to five hospitals who are part of the Medicare Dependent Hospital and/or Medicare Low Volume programs, including Adirondack Medical Center, Alice Hyde Medical Center, Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center, Massena Memorial Hospital, and Nathan Littauer Hospital. H.R. 2 was also supported by the Healthcare Association of New York State. ###
03.19.2015	Washington –Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) led the effort to have the entire New York Congressional delegation send a letter today to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter highlighting the importance of Fort Drum and the need to protect this installation from drastic cuts to our nation’s military under sequestration and the Budget Control Act. The lawmakers wrote: As members of the New York Congressional Delegation we wanted to highlight the importance of Fort Drum and New York’s commitment to the installation. Additionally, we wanted to bring to your attention a listening session which will occur on Friday, March 20, 2015. This listening session is an opportunity for the state of New York and the North Country community to raise awareness for the potential loss of 16,000 soldier and civilian jobs to Fort Drum due to the drastic cuts to our nation’s military under sequestration and the Budget Control Act. Fort Drum is a critical and imperative installation to our U.S. armed forces because of its training facilities and capabilities, power projection, quality of life, expansibility and geographic distribution. The installation is home to the 10th Mountain Division, the army’s most-deployed division since 1990. The 10th Mountain Division is a light infantry division and is comprised of confident, resilient and competent warriors. Fort Drum’s training capabilities also provide each branch of our armed forces, as well as the National Guard, with the necessary skills to rapidly deploy anywhere around the world, trained and combat-ready. In fact, over 25,000 reserve and National Guard soldiers train annually at Fort Drum. The installation is capable of meeting the needs to support not only our nation’s army and joint forces, but also international forces in order to maintain relations or coordination with our allied nations. Fort Drum is unique in its ability to provide training for law enforcement agencies which include federal, New York state, county and local entities. New York State and its federal representatives are dedicated to sustaining Fort Drum, its service members and their families, by investing in the community and infrastructure in order to maintain a well-positioned and proven integral asset to our nation’s armed forces. Please feel free to contact our offices in regard to the importance of Fort Drum or the listening session. For a digital copy of the letter to Secretary Carter, click here. Congresswoman Stefanik was joined on this letter by Sens. Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Reps. Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Chris Collins (NY-27), Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Eliot L. Engel (NY-16), Chris Gibson (NY-19), Richard Hanna (NY-22), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Steve Israel (NY-3), John Katko (NY-24), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8), Peter King (NY-2), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Grace Meng (NY-6), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Charles B. Rangel (NY-13), Tom Reed (NY-23), Kathleen Rice (NY-4), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Nydia Velázquez (NY-7) and Lee Zeldin (NY-1). ####
03.16.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) applauded the announcement that Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Canadian Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Steven Blaney today signed the Agreement on Land, Rail, Marine, and Air Transport Preclearance Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada. “This landmark agreement is welcome news for our North Country community,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “In addition to helping increase efficiency along our northern border, this agreement will help increase trade with our Canadian neighbors. This is good for our North Country economy and for hard working North Country families. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass the legislation necessary to implement this plan.” "The Beyond the Border process has provided an important opportunity for the U.S. and Canada to jointly build our economic connections while valuing and supporting the flow of legitimate travel and commerce at ours hared border," states Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce. "And today's agreement on pre-clearance is nothing short of historic as it sets the stage for a number of advances in the years ahead." According to Douglas, the North Country Chamber and other partners on both sides of the border have been supporting an agreement that would specifically facilitate three long sought advances for the North Country: 1)The agreed terms for the pre-clearance of New York bound Amtrak trains in Montreal by U.S. Customs & Border Protection personnel, eliminating the current long stoppages at the border. 2)The possibility of Canadian Border Service Agency operations in Massena on the U.S. side of the Massena-Cornwall crossing, addressing space limitations on the Cornwall side and enhancing flow at this important North Country gateway. 3)Agreement on how U.S. and Canadian personnel can jointly staff and operate small, rural crossings from one side or the other without two separate operations. thereby saving resources for both countries while securing the future operation of many small crossings in the North Country and elsewhere which, while low volume, represent important connections between rural U.S. and Canadian communities. "We thank both governments for this historic agreement, as well as our representatives in Washington who have been steadfast advocates, including Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and a continuity of engagement and attention from fromer Congressman Owens and now Congresswoman Stefanik,” added Mr. Douglass. ####
03.04.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement applauding the Plattsburgh, Ogdensburg, and Massena communities for being recognized by Site Selection Magazine as top U.S. "micropolitan areas" ranked by number of new or expanded corporate facility projects. “This is great news for the North Country community as it recognizes the strong efforts by our community leaders to promote and expand economic activity,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Making this national list is an honor, and I look forward to working in Congress to help our North Country community’s economy grow and continue to make this exciting progress.” According to the U.S. Census Bureau, “a micropolitan area contains an urban core of at least 10,000 residents but less than 50,000 in total population.” To read the full list of rankings from Site Selection Magazine, click here. ####
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – With consideration of funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) scheduled for later today, six Republican Members of the New York Congressional Delegation released the following statement: “We will be voting in support today of legislation to fund DHS for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2015. While we strongly disagree with the unilateral actions that President Obama has taken, we believe the courts – not cutting off funding for the entire Department – is the most effective way to stop his actions. We support the federal lower court decision that put an injunction on the executive actions taken by the President, and we believe it should be upheld. Furthermore, moving forward, we hope to work in a bipartisan way to reform our broken immigration system through legislative action. “However, DHS is critical to our national security – ISIS is a real threat to America, and we must provide full funding to keep New York and our country safe. We urge the rest of our colleagues to join us in supporting legislation to fund DHS.” Republican Members of the delegation issuing the statement are: Rep. Peter King, Rep. Chris Gibson, Rep. Richard Hanna, Rep. Chris Collins, Rep. John Katko, and Rep. Elise Stefanik. ####
03.03.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress: “Today I was honored to attend Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address to a joint session of Congress. “As our nation’s greatest ally in the region, hearing directly from the Prime Minister of Israel about the existential threat they face from a nuclear Iran was a powerful experience. “A nuclear Iran is simply unacceptable, and our nation must work with our allies in the region to do everything to prevent this from happening. “I thank Prime Minister Netanyahu for addressing my colleagues and me today, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to maintain our strong alliance.” ####
03.02.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor about Fort Drum, her recent visit to the Middle East and the damaging effects that the sequester is having on our military. A transcript of her remarks is below, or to watch video, click here. I rise today to recognize and honor the 10th Mountain Division, their service to Fort Drum, the 21st District of New York, our North Country community and our nation. For thirty years now, the brave men and women of the 10th Mountain Division have stood in harm’s way to protect and defend our country. Since September 11th, 2001, the 10th Mountain Division has been the most actively deployed division to Iraq and Afghanistan. Too many of our soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice and lost their lives in service. As leaders in Congress, we have an obligation to protect and serve our constituents and members of our armed forces. We cannot repay the debt we owe these service members and their families, but we can work to honor their legacy and recognize what they have done for us. We must protect the promises we have made to these brave individuals and strengthen our nation’s commitment to helping them as they return from combat. In Congress, I will do everything I can to protect the interests of Fort Drum and to ensure the 10th Mountain Division has the necessary resources they need to do their work. It is critical for Fort Drum and the entire 21st Congressional District to have a voice at the table to fight on behalf of our military families and veterans. To that end, I am honored to serve on the House Armed Services Committee as the Vice-Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness, and as a member of the Subcommittees on Personnel and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. As a member of these subcommittees, I will work to ensure the Defense Department, our troops and Fort Drum have the necessary tools they require to defend our nation from those that wish to do us harm. However, we continue to see threats to our national security increase, and reductions to our military remain due to the Budget Control Act and sequestration. These substantial budget cuts will have significant negative impacts to Ft. Drum and the U.S. military. Under sequestration, the Pentagon’s proposal states that Fort Drum could lose up to 16,000 soldiers and civilian jobs. This loss of jobs would have severe and devastating effects to the installation, the North Country community and New York. General Dempsey and our military leaders have declared time and time again that sequestration reduces our armed forces readiness and their capabilities. And it unnecessarily puts our men and women in uniform at increased risk. Here we expect our service men and women to protect our nation; however the imposed budget cuts, due to sequestration, inhibit their readiness and threaten our national security. It is our duty to ensure our nation is protected, and in doing so, maintain the operational readiness of our military. I pledge to work to preserve and strengthen our nation’s armed forces and follow in the footsteps of Representative John McHugh by advocating for our troops and veterans stationed in the 21st District of New York and in our surrounding communities. Two weeks ago I had the honor to attend a small congressional delegation visit to Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Iraq and Afghanistan. On this trip, I was privileged to meet with soldiers who are based out of Fort Drum as well as many others who have trained there. What an opportunity it was to visit with the troops from the Resolute Support Head Quarters Forces, USFOR-A Soldiers and Counterterrorism Operations Forces. I thanked them for their service and discussed ways we can work to strengthen and protect Ft. Drum for our district. This trip was truly essential in order for me to gain a personal perspective of the circumstances under which so many of our brave soldiers from Fort Drum have served abroad. Additionally, I was able to meet with many important foreign dignitaries, including King Abdullah II of Jordan, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, and Iraqi President Fuad Masum to discuss issues of concern to the region. These nations and their leaders play a key role in the effort among Arab nations to combat ISIS and other terrorist organizations. The discussions and meetings with these dignitaries were informative and useful. I believe that continued open dialogue and conversation with these leaders will be incredibly beneficial to maintain and establish our nation’s perspective on defense policy. This trip gave me a chance to hear from our service men and women on the ground and other national leaders about real solutions related to stabilizing the region, continued threats to our own national security, the readiness of our armed forces and the tools they need to keep our country safe. Serving the Fort Drum community in Congress and as a Member of the House Armed Services Committee is an incredible honor. I am beyond thankful to our men and women in uniform and grateful to their families for their service to our country. Thank you to you and your loved ones for keeping our nation safe. ####
02.27.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement after the House passed a seven day short term extension for DHS funding: “I voted for this one week extension to prevent a shutdown and maintain funding for this critical agency. A one week extension is not the way to run our government, and I hope the Senate passed DHS funding measure will be brought to the floor next week. “DHS funding is critical to our district because of the broad economic importance of our Canadian border, and the need to make sure that the thousands of North Country DHS employees are paid on time for their hard work.” ####
02.27.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement after the House failed to pass a short term funding extension for the Department of Homeland Security: “Today I crossed party lines to vote against rejecting the Senate bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security through September. I support the Senate measure and hope to see it come to the floor as soon as possible. “Furthermore, I voted on a bipartisan basis to try and pass a short term funding measure to keep DHS funded, but unfortunately that vote failed in the House. This is extremely disappointing to me – I do not support government shutdowns and will continue to vote to keep DHS funded. “DHS funding is critical to our district because of the broad economic importance of our Canadian border, and the need to make sure that the thousands of North Country DHS employees are paid on time for their hard work.” ####
02.27.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement: "I don't support government shutdowns, and this impasse is an example of the kind of Washington dysfunction that I pledged to help stop. "The Department of Homeland Security provides critical services to help keep our nation safe. In New York's 21st district, DHS funding is crucial because of the broad economic importance of our Canadian border, and the need to make sure that the thousands of North Country DHS employees are paid on time for their hard work. "Therefore, when brought up for a vote in the House, I will vote to fund the Department of Homeland Security and I support the clean Senate bill." ####
02.25.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, voted in support of H.R. 529—legislation to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve 529 college savings plans. This bipartisan legislation would expand 529 college savings plans by allowing tax free computer and equipment purchases, repealing an outdated reporting requirement, and allowing tax-free reinvestment of refunds from colleges. “As a Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, expanding access to high quality, affordable education for North Country families is a key priority of mine,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This bipartisan measure will help families save for college and help lower the staggering amounts of student debt that too often result from attaining a college education. I was proud to support this measure and hope the Senate will act swiftly to send it to the President’s desk.” For more information on H.R. 529, click here. ####
02.24.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s veto of S.1, bipartisan legislation approving the Keystone XL pipeline: “I am incredibly disappointed that President Obama would veto this commonsense, bipartisan energy project,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This project would create as many as 42,000 jobs and help lower energy prices for hard working North Country families, which is why I supported passage of this legislation in the House. Not only is this project supported by bipartisan majorities in Congress, but it is strongly supported by the American public as well. Furthermore, this project is supported by organizations ranging from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to the AFL-CIO. I hope President Obama’s decision to veto this bipartisan legislation is not a sign of things to come over the next two years, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the House to find ways to advance this important project.” ####
02.24.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) spoke on the House floor to commemorate the 35th Anniversary of the “Miracle on Ice” that occurred at the 1980 Lake Placid Olympic games. Below is a transcript of her remarks, or to watch video, click here. Thank you, Mme. Speaker. “Do you believe in Miracles?” These were the iconic words uttered by legendary sportscaster Al Michaels with just three seconds left in the historic match between Team USA and the Soviet National hockey teams in the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid. With the eyes of the world on the Lake Placid games, through sheer grit and determination, an amateur Team USA proudly did what many thought would be impossible by defeating the favored Soviet team. Decades of cold war politics made this event more than just an ordinary hockey game, and for many it was one more proud reminder of what a determined and united America can accomplish. I grew up hearing this story firsthand from my Dad who was in Lake Placid with his best friend Doug Brownell when the underdog Team USA won and the crowds erupted in cheers. It was an awe-inspiring moment for our entire country and the world. Our community in Lake Placid and the North Country still celebrates this incredible occasion. This past weekend Lake Placid was proud to host a reunion celebrating the 35th anniversary of this game and hosting the players from the 1980 Team USA men’s hockey team. Our North Country community is proud to be a home for this historic and inspiring event. And I am proud to stand on the House floor today to commemorate the 35th anniversary of the “Miracle on Ice.” Thank you, and I yield back. ####
02.20.2015	Washington – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee, returned from an official bipartisan Congressional Delegation visit to Afghanistan, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Stefanik was one of few Members invited to attend this Congressional delegation. Upon returning from her visit, she released the following statement: “Over the last week, I had the honor of being invited to attend a small congressional delegation visit to Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Iraq and Afghanistan. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and the Representative to Congress for the Fort Drum community, this trip was essential to gain a personal perspective of the circumstances under which so many of our brave soldiers from Fort Drum have served abroad. “On this trip, I was privileged to meet with soldiers who are based out of Fort Drum as well as many who have trained there. I thanked them for their service and discussed ways we can work to strengthen and protect Ft. Drum for our district. "Additionally, I was able to meet with many important foreign dignitaries, including King Abdullah II of Jordan, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, and Iraqi President Fuad Masum to discuss issues of concern to the region and to our national security. “Our nation and our world face enormous threats right now and this trip was a historic opportunity to hear from our service men and women on the ground about real issues related to the readiness of our armed forces and the tools they need to keep our country safe. Serving the Fort Drum community in Congress and as a Member of the House Armed Services Committee is an incredible honor and I thank our men and women in uniform and their families for their service to our country.” Attached is a photo of Congresswoman Stefanik from her visit during a visit with troops in Afghanistan. Congresswoman Stefanik will be posting additional photos of her trip throughout the weekend which you can follow on Twitter and Instagram. XXXX
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Readiness, issued the following statement on the 30th anniversary of the activation of the 10th Mountain Division at Fort Drum on February 13th, 1985: “Today we recognize and honor the 10th Mountain Division and everything they have done for Fort Drum, our North Country community and our nation. For the past thirty years, the brave men and women of the 10th Mountain Division have stood in harm’s way to protect and defend our country. Too many of our soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice and lost their lives in service. We cannot repay the debt we owe these service members and their families, but we can work to honor their legacy and recognize what they have done for us. “In Congress, I will fight to protect the interests of Fort Drum and to ensure the 10th Mountain Division has the necessary resources they need to do their work. Since September 11th, 2001, the 10th Mountain Division has been the most actively deployed division to Iraq and Afghanistan. We must protect the promises that have made to these brave individuals and strengthen our nation’s commitment to helping them as they return from combat. To that end, I am pleased that this week a measure was signed into law that will help our veterans struggling with mental health issues after returning from deployment, and that the House of Representatives has already begun work to help our veterans find work. But more can and must be done. “On this 30th Anniversary, let us honor and reflect on all that the 10th Mountain Division and Fort Drum has done for our community and our nation, and let us pledge to work together to preserve and strengthen this institution for many years to come.” ####
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Readiness, announced the hiring of Ms. Courtney Carrow to serve as her Legislative Assistant for Military Affairs. “I am excited to have Courtney join our team,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Protecting and strengthening the interests of Fort Drum and working to undo the damaging effects the sequester is having on our military are key priorities of mine in Congress and in my work on the House Armed Services Committee. Courtney brings a wealth of experience and skill that will help me accomplish these goals and serve our North Country constituents.” Ms. Carrow has a bachelor’s degree from Florida State University and a Master’s degree from the Naval War College. As an officer in the U.S. Navy Reserve since 2011, she has been deployed to Afghanistan and served as the Navy conduit throughout to the International Security Assistance Force during the Afghan Presidential election. Ms. Carrow most recently has served as Senior Legislative Assistant to House Armed Services Committee Member Rob Wittman (R-VA-01). She begins work in Congresswoman Stefanik’s office effective immediately. ####
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of S. 1 – the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. This bipartisan legislation that has passed out of the Senate would authorize construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. “I am proud to support this commonsense, bipartisan energy project,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This project will create as many as 42 ,000 new jobs and help lower energy prices for hard working North Country families. The President will now have a chance to demonstrate that he is willing to work with Congress and stand with a strong majority of Americans who support the construction of this pipeline by signing this measure into law. I hope he does so quickly and I commend my colleagues in the House and Senate for their work on this important, bipartisan legislation.” ####
02.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – The House Armed Services Committee has announced that Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has been selected by her colleagues on the Committee to serve as Vice-Chairman for the Subcommittee on Readiness. “I am grateful to Chairman Thornberry and my colleagues on the Committee for the opportunity to serve in this important position,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “The Readiness Subcommittee has extraordinary responsibility overseeing the budget for the Department of Defense. From this position, I will be able to work to undo the damaging effects that the sequester is having on our military readiness as well as bring a strong voice to protect and strengthen the interests of Fort Drum. I look forward to working closely with Subcommittee Chairman Rob Wittman on these important issues.” “I am pleased to announce that Congresswoman Stefanik will be serving in this important position in the 114th Congress,” said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13). “From day one, Congresswoman Stefanik has displayed a strong desire to advocate on behalf of the needs of the Department of Defense, and specifically Ft. Drum in New York’s 21st District. From her seat as Vice Chairman on the Readiness Subcommittee, she will be well positioned to help advance her goals and protect the capabilities of our armed forces.” About the Readiness Subcommittee: The Readiness Subcommittee is responsible for the single largest account within DOD’s budget. It oversees military readiness, training, logistics and maintenance issues and programs, military construction, installations and family housing issues, and the BRAC process. It also oversees civilian personnel, energy security, and environmental issues that affect DOD. The Readiness Subcommittee makes sure that our troops are properly trained and their equipment is properly maintained so they can succeed in their missions, and that they have the facilities and services they deserve when they return home. ####
02.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced the opening of her Plattsburgh office: “I am excited to have our doors open to serve the Plattsburgh community,” said Rep. Stefanik. “Whether you need help with a federal agency, information about services my office can provide, or wish to share your opinion on issues before Congress, I encourage anyone in the area to stop by our Plattsburgh office for assistance.” Congresswoman Stefanik’s Plattsburgh office is located at 23 Durkee Street, Suite C, Plattsburgh. The phone number is (518) 561-2324. In addition, Congresswoman Stefanik announced new hires in her district offices. Serving as Regional Director for the Plattsburgh office will be Renee Hertz. Renee is a graduate of Rutgers School of Law and lives in Keene Valley. Congresswoman Stefanik also hired two key staffers who worked for Congressman Bill Owens. Matt Scollin is a graduate of University of New Hampshire who worked for Congressman Owens and will serve as Regional Director for Congresswoman Stefanik’s Glens Falls Office. Also, Maddie Donovan who graduated from Nazareth College of Rochester and worked for Congressman Owens will serve as Regional Director for Congresswoman Stefanik’s Watertown Office. “I am so pleased to have Renee, Matt and Maddie on our team,” said Rep. Stefanik. “Their experience and knowledge of the district will help us greatly as we serve constituents in the North Country and I am excited to have them on board.” ####
02.03.2015	Glens Falls, N.Y. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) will be hosting a grand opening of her Glens Falls District Office on Saturday, February 7th. This event will be open to all constituents of New York’s 21st District. Who: Congresswoman Elise Stefanik What: Grand Opening/Open House of her Glens Falls District Office When: Saturday, February 7, 2015, 10:00AM to 11:00AM Where: Glens Falls District Office, 136 Glen Street, Glens Falls ####
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) released the following statement in reaction to the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal: “I commend President Obama for putting forth his budget on time this year. While there is much I disagree with, I am pleased that the President’s plan includes needed relief from the sequester’s automatic defense spending cuts. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, restoring this funding will be a key priority of mine as well to help maintain our military readiness as well as protect and strengthen Fort Drum. “The President’s plan calls for $2.1 trillion in new taxes and never manages to balance our budget. In fact, it would add $8.5 trillion to our national debt over the next ten years. This would be irresponsible, and the best way to reduce our deficits and begin paying down our $18 trillion national debt is to get our economy growing. To do this we need to work together to pursue comprehensive tax reform to close loopholes, lower rates and make our economy more competitive. The President’s tax proposals pick winners and losers in our tax code and I favor a comprehensive approach to get our economy growing. “In the coming weeks I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House on a budget plan that will restore funding for key priorities like national defense, while preserving our nation’s finances for future generations by bringing our books to balance.” ####
01.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement in response to the news that the White House had reversed its decision to propose new taxes on 529 college savings plans: “I am pleased that President Obama has changed his mind over his proposal to tax college savings plans. These 529 plans are an important tool to help middle class families save to attend college and it would be misguided to begin discouraging this with new taxes. As a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, I look forward to pursuing policies that will help expand access to higher education and lower the cost so that hard working North Country families and students can pursue their dreams.” ####
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Armed Services Committee announced that Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has been selected by her colleagues to serve on the Subcommittees on Readiness, Personnel, and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. “I am grateful to Chairman Thornberry and my colleagues on the Committee for the rare opportunity to serve on three important subcommittees as a freshman in Congress,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These subcommittee assignments will give me a significant platform to advance the needs of our Defense Department, our troops, and to protect and strengthen Fort Drum. Furthermore I will be continuing in the legacy of North Country Congressman John McHugh who served on the Subcommittees on Personnel and Readiness.” ####
01.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed a series of measures aimed at combating human trafficking. Among those measures was legislation cosponsored by Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21), H.R. 350 – the Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act of 2015. “Sadly, the horrific crime of human trafficking is far too prevalent in our society,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “That’s why I was happy to support these commonsense proposals to help victims of trafficking as well as to help law enforcement go after the perpetrators of these heinous crimes. Specifically I was proud to see legislation I cosponsored to help ensure that our nation’s law enforcement agencies and communities have the best information on how to prevent and deter these crimes pass unopposed by voice vote.” Below is a list of trafficking legislation that passed out of the House today: 1) H.R. 350 – Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Rep. Kristi Noem / Judiciary Committee) 2) H.R. 159 – Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act of 2015, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Erik Paulsen / Judiciary Committee) 3) H.R. 285 – Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Rep. Ann Wagner / Judiciary Committee) 4) H.R. 181 – Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Ted Poe / Judiciary Committee) 5) H.R. 460 – Human Trafficking Detection Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Rep. Mark Walker / Homeland Security Committee) 6) H.R. 469 – Strengthening Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Rep. Karen Bass / Education and Workforce Committee) 7) H.R. 246 – To improve the response to victims of child sex trafficking (Sponsored by Rep. Joyce Beatty / Education and Workforce Committee) ###
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address: “I will work with the President and anyone of any party who will bring solutions to the table that will benefit North Country families and businesses. For too long Washington has been divided and has not been serving the will of the American people and it is time to turn the page. “I am happy that in the House of Representatives, we have already moved forward this Congress with several bipartisan measures to help veterans, families and businesses. We have also passed legislation to approve the Keystone pipeline – a bipartisan project that my predecessor Congressman Bill Owens supported that will create jobs and help lower energy prices for Americans across the country. “There is much more work to be done. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I want to work to stop the sequestration cuts to the Department of Defense and work to ensure that Fort Drum is protected and strengthened. And as a member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, I want to work to improve access to high quality education and pursue policies to make sure our labor force is ready to compete in a 21st century global economy. “I hope that the President will work with Congress on behalf of the American people. Americans are tired of divisive politics and sent a clear message in the last election that they want us to work together, solve problems, and protect the future of our nation. “I was proud to have Katie and Mary McCurry of Carthage High School join me as my guests tonight. These two twin sisters are seniors in high school who plan to serve their nation by enrolling in a U.S. Military Service Academy upon graduation. They are an inspiration and a reminder of the importance of the work I am here to do. I look forward to doing everything I can to protect their American Dream.” ###
01.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) has invited Carthage Central High School students and twin sisters, Mary McCurry and Katie McCurry, to attend President Obama’s State of the Union Address in Washington on Tuesday, January 20th. The McCurry sisters are seniors at Carthage and both plan to attend U.S. Military Service Academies. “I am beyond excited that Mary and Katie will be able to attend this year’s State of the Union address with me at the U.S. Capitol,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I had the privilege of meeting these two young ladies in the fall and was immediately impressed by their dedication and love for their country. I look forward to showing them around the Capitol and hope this is a memorable, rewarding experience for them before they begin serving their country.” Mary and Katie are identical twins who were born at Samaritan Medical Center in Watertown, N.Y. when their parents were stationed at Ft. Drum in the mid-90's. ###
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 240 – the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. Congresswoman Stefanik issued the following statement after House passage: “This legislation provides critical funding for DHS while blocking funding for the President’s unilateral actions on immigration, which constitute significant executive overreach. Just last week I took the oath of office to uphold the Constitution; part of that oath is to uphold our Constitution’s system of checks and balances and that means working to stop an overreaching executive action by the President, which is what my vote did today. To be clear, we must fix our broken immigration system. I look forward to pursuing real, substantive immigration reforms legislatively and on a bipartisan basis that will help our local economy grow, promote commerce along our Northern border, and reform our agricultural workers program to provide certainty for our farmers.” H.R. 240 passed out of the House today by a vote of 236-191. For more information on this legislation, click here. ###
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of H.R. 203 – the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act. Congresswoman Stefanik issued the following statement after House passage: “This important, bipartisan legislation will help provide resources to combat the tragedy of our nation’s veterans committing suicide while waiting for the care they need. This legislation is named for an individual who heroically served his nation in Iraq and Afghanistan, just as so many of our brave soldiers at Fort Drum have done. Our veterans deserve the best care we can give them, and I was proud to support this important legislation.” H.R. 203 passed out of the House last night unanimously by a vote of 403-0. For more information on this legislation, click here. ###
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) announced that she will be releasing a weekly e-newsletter to keep her North Country constituents informed: “As part of my commitment to transparency, I want to share each week with my constituents what I have been working on in Congress,” Stefanik said. “I want my constituents to stay informed with the issues we are working on in Washington, and I want them to have an easy, accessible and digital way to share their opinions with me.” To sign up for Congresswoman Stefanik’s weekly e-newsletter, please visit: https://stefanik.house.gov/contact/newsletter ###
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, upon the opening of the House floor, the entire U.S. Constitution was read to kick off the 114th Congress. Congresswoman Elise Stefanik released the following statement: “This week I was proud to take the oath of office and swear to protect and defend the Constitution,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “This is a duty that I will faithfully uphold as I represent the people of New York’s 21st District in Congress, and I can’t think of a more fitting way to begin the 114th than to have the entire House reminded of the words of this historic founding document.” ###
01.09.2015	Plattsburgh, N.Y. – Rep. Elise Stefanik will be hosting a ceremonial swearing in at the Clinton County Government Center in Plattsburgh on Saturday, January 10th. Plattsburgh Ceremonial Swearing InWhen: Saturday, January 10th 12:00pm - 2:00pm Where: Clinton County Government Center 137 Margaret Street, Plattsburgh 2nd Floor Legislative Chambers Special Guest: Former State Supreme Court Justice Jan Plumadore ###
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) voted in support of House passage of H.R. 22 – the Hire More Heroes Act -- and released the following statement: “Far too many of our nation’s bravest remain unemployed,” said Rep. Stefanik. “This is unacceptable, as those who put their lives on the line to defend our freedom deserve the support of their government. That’s why, with my support, I was so happy to see the House unanimously pass the Hire More Heroes Act. This important legislation will help our nation’s bravest get back to work by exempting veterans who already have health insurance from being counted as full-time workers under Obamacare’s employer mandate. Business owners should be able to hire veterans without worrying about being slapped with an Obamacare penalty, and I urge the Senate to quickly send this bipartisan, commonsense legislation to the President’s desk.” The Hire More Heroes Act passed the House unanimously on January 6th, 2014 by a vote of 412-0. ###
01.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) was officially sworn in to represent New York’s 21st district in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am thrilled and humbled by this opportunity to serve the wonderful people of New York’s 21st district,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I pledge to be a strong voice for our community in Congress and to work my hardest to advance bipartisan solutions. Washington is broken and now is the time for leaders to work together on behalf of the American people. I am grateful for this incredible opportunity.” Attached is a high resolution photo of Rep. Stefanik being sworn in by Speaker John Boehner. XXXX
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
