02.25.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) is once again inviting high school students to submit their works of art to his office for the 2019 Congressional Art Competition. Winning students will have the honor of displaying their artwork on the grounds of the United States Capitol and will receive an invitation to visit Washington to celebrate their achievement. Rep. Maloney’s office is accepting artwork until April 19th, 2019. “The Hudson Valley is full of talented young artists who make our area proud every year by submitting exemplary works of art – I hope every high school artist will consider submitting their work this year, and I look forward to viewing the submissions.” said Rep. Maloney. All submissions of student artwork must be framed, and a Student Information and Release Form should be mailed to or dropped off at Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh Office located at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY. The competition is open to high school students, but exceptions may be made for schools that have grades 7 through 12 on one campus. Contestants will compete with other students from the district and the winning student will be recognized at awards ceremonies in the Hudson Valley and in Washington, DC in the Spring. The winning work of art will be chosen by a panel of local judges in the Hudson Valley. All works of are submitted to the office will be posted on Rep. Maloney’s Facebook page for a period of one week starting on April 22nd and the work with the most “likes” will receive a separate award as the Facebook Fan Favorite. All participants will be recognized at a reception hosted by Rep. Maloney this spring. More relevant information can be found on Rep. Maloney’s website. The grand prize winning artwork will be displayed in the Capitol for one year, and the winning student will receive complimentary airfare or an equivalent prize to use while in Washington, D.C. You can view last year’s art competition entries on Rep. Maloney’s Facebook page. Entries must be submitted by Friday, April 19th, 2019. For further information, contact Paige Banfield by phone at 845-561-1259 or via email at Paige.Banfield@mail.house.gov.
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has signed on as an original cosponsor of a privileged resolution to terminate President Trump’s manufactured national emergency. The resolution relies on the official termination mechanism included within the National Emergencies Act (NEA), which provided the statutory basis for the president’s declaration. “It is obvious that the president’s declaration does not meet the legal standard for a national emergency, and Congress will defend the rule of law. The president has been clear about what is behind this move - politics not policy. “There is nothing wrong with a president declaring a national emergency – presidents, including President Trump, have done it many times before without incident. But what President Trump is attempting to do — going around both Republicans and Democrats in Congress and robbing military funding key to our readiness and drug interdiction efforts because he didn’t get his way — is both dangerous and blatantly unconstitutional. “We’ll get this passed in the House. And I hope my colleagues in the Senate, many of whom vocally opposed the emergency declaration before it was announced, will have the backbone to protect the Constitution and our military.”
02.21.2019	WASHINGTON - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement in response to the arrest of Coast Guard Lieutenant Christopher Paul Hasson, a white nationalist who served at Coast Guard Headquarters and was actively planning a large-scale terrorist attack on members of the government and the media. "Christopher Hasson's dangerous and racist beliefs are a threat to the public and we’re all safer now that he’s been caught. His extreme views obviously don't represent the brave men and women of the Coast Guard, who dedicate their lives to protecting our country. "I want to thank the Guard's Investigative Service for working alongside the FBI to apprehend this terrorist before he could carry out an attack."
02.21.2019	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to the Department of the Air Force’s refusal to pay for expenses the City of Newburgh incurred as the result of water contamination emanating from Stewart Air National Guard Base. “The City of Newburgh didn’t contaminate its own water supply. Its citizens shouldn’t have to pay to clean up a mess they didn’t make. The federal government contaminated the water and they have the responsibility to pay for remediation. “We worked to include millions of dollars in funding to pay for remediation efforts in last year’s defense bill, and that funding should be directed to places like Newburgh. I will continue fighting to ensure that the City of Newburgh doesn’t have to break the bank to pay for a mess the Department of Defense made.”
02.20.2019	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced an investment of $3,998,729.00 through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to the state of New York to fund the construction of a microgrid to provide electricity to the Four Corners, East Fishkill electrical service area. The area has been previously identified as an area at-risk for long power outages after storms. This funding will allow local residents and businesses to maintain their access to electricity during an outage on the larger grid. The funding is made available through the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act as part of ongoing federal recovery efforts in response to Hurricane Sandy. “We need to upgrade all of our electrical grids, but this is an important place to start since these improvements are long overdue,” said Rep. Maloney. “I mean, this is the United States of America in 2019 - we shouldn’t have folks sitting in the dark for days on end every time there’s a storm.” Microgrids are local energy grids that can generate and distribute electricity to an area independent of its connection to a larger grid. During normal operation, the microgrid is integrated into a larger electrical grid, but during a severe storm or other power outage, the microgrid can function independently. The microgrid project will include the construction of a new generator and associated equipment to serve approximately 327 residential, 19 non-residential, and 7 public properties in the event of supply interruption. The project is expected to be completed in 2022. The Four Corners area has been historically vulnerable to electric service interruptions due to storm events outside the area. The microgrid will provide power to customers in the event of such a disruption. Additionally, should a disruption occur within the service area of the microgrid, this project will minimize that disruption due to only the local interruption needing to be repaired.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump will sign compromise legislation to keep the government funded, but will also declare a national emergency to build a wall on the southern border. “This is a declaration of presidential weakness and failure. “Make no mistake – this is the president robbing Peter to pay Paul because he couldn’t get his way. In this case we’re talking about stealing from the next generation of military leaders or people reeling from natural disasters across the country. This will hurt people for no good reason and threaten actual national security priorities, like a state-of-the-art engineering center at West Point. “This is the wrong move, and you don’t have to take my word for it. Republicans in Congress have been warning against this decision for weeks because it exceeds the president’s constitutional authority and sets a precedent they wouldn’t be happy with. It’s not going to work.” Last week, Rep. Maloney cautioned that an emergency declaration could threaten over $250 million in funding for four projects at the United States Military Academy at West Point.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) action plan on PFAS contamination. The plan will establish criteria for cleaning up contaminated sites, but stops short of setting an immediate, enforceable safe drinking water level. “I appreciate the fact that the EPA is finally getting in the game on PFOS and PFOA cleanup criteria, but we need an enforceable drinking water standard to protect our communities right now,” said Rep. Maloney. “I urge the EPA to act quickly to protect people’s health. I’m going to continue watching this process like a hawk.” In 2016, studies revealed that the City of Newburgh’s municipal water supply was contaminated by PFOS runoff from firefighting foam used at Stewart Air National Guard Base. Although safe alternative water sources have been in use for years, many of the city’s residents show blood levels of PFOS and PFOA above the national average, and the original water source contains levels of PFOS above what the EPA has deemed to be safe.
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON – LGBTQ parents Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Rep. Angie Craig (MN-02) and fellow Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Katie Hill (CA-25), led a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar opposing his department’s decision to issue a waiver to South Carolina allowing the state to sidestep Obama-era regulations preventing child welfare agencies from discriminating on a religious basis. Last month, HHS issued the waiver to South Carolina allowing state-contracted child welfare agencies to discriminate against otherwise qualified prospective parents who do not share their religious beliefs. Since the waiver was issued, President Trump has spoken out in support of continued federal funding for foster care agencies that turn away same-sex couples applying to be foster and adoptive parents. Last Friday, the Washington Post reported that the administration intends to propose broad authorization for foster care and adoption agencies nationwide to discriminate in child welfare services and “reject LGBTQ parents, non-Christians, and others.” Ninety-five members of the House signed the letter. “Our goal should be finding loving parents for kids who need them – that’s all that matters,” said Rep. Maloney, the first and only out member of Congress from New York and a father of three. “This isn’t about religious freedom – it’s a taxpayer-funded license to discriminate that will only hurt people – the innocent children who need a good home and the parents who are ready, willing, and able to provide one but are turned away.” "I urge Secretary Azar to stand with all loving families," said Rep. Craig, who has four sons with her wife Cheryl. "As a mother who faced adoption challenges decades ago, I cannot stand by and allow this decision to proceed unchecked. Turning away prospective parents on the basis of an agency’s religious litmus test is harmful to families, to children, and to religious minorities and the LGBTQ community.” “Through my work as the Executive Director of California's largest homelessness nonprofit, I became very familiar with the work of foster organizations and our critical need to find displaced children loving homes,” said Rep. Hill. “This system has absolutely no room for discrimination – our first and only priority is making sure kids are given safe and nurturing homes and that parents who are looking to provide those safe and nurturing homes have the opportunity to do so." The Rev. Stan J. Sloan, CEO of Family Equality Council, said: “We are grateful to members of Congress for standing with the faith, child welfare, and LGBTQ communities to say ‘no’ to discrimination in foster care and adoption, thus ensuring that America’s 440,000 foster children are not needlessly denied the loving, supportive families they deserve.” Rabbi Jack Moline, President of Interfaith Alliance, stated: "By granting [the South Carolina] waiver, HHS has placed the full weight of the federal government behind policies that presume there is a ‘right’ and ‘wrong’ religion – exactly the type of religious favoritism the Establishment Clause prohibits. Congress cannot stand idly by as foster youth, people of different faiths, and LGBTQ prospective parents bear the burden of state-sponsored discrimination." Chris James-Brown, President & CEO of Child Welfare League of America, stated: “We recognize and support the critical and important role that religious-affiliated agencies have played and continue to play in our nation’s human services programs. The decision by HHS, however, would offer broad authority to violate the central principle of the nation’s child welfare system by not placing the best interest of children and youth first.” In January, HHS granted the governor of South Carolina a waiver exempting federally-funded child welfare agencies in the state from Obama-era regulations preventing religious discrimination. The decision will allow state-contracted and federally-funded religious child welfare organizations to reject prospective parents’ bids to adopt or foster children on a religious basis. Rep. Maloney has successfully defeated measures allowing discrimination with federal dollars in the past. Last year, he whipped votes on the House floor against an amendment introduced by Rep. Vicki Hartzler (R-MO), which would have prevented the use of federal funding to pay for hormone therapy and gender affirmation surgery for members of the armed services who are transgender. That amendment ultimately failed to pass in a Republican-controlled House. In 2016, Rep. Maloney successfully led the charge to remove anti-LGBTQ language from the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which would have rolled back a 2014 Obama executive order preventing discrimination against LGBTQ people in federal contracting. The text of the letter is available below and an original copy can be found here. Dear Secretary Azar, We write to you to express our strong opposition to a waiver your Department granted to South Carolina from nondiscrimination requirements for its state-contracted child welfare agencies. Under this waiver, Miracle Hill Ministries – and other South Carolina faith-based state-contracted foster care agencies – will be permitted to continue to turn away foster and adoptive parents who do not share the agency’s specific Christian beliefs. This harmful decision allows federally-funded child welfare agencies in South Carolina to discriminate on the basis of religion – an egregious violation of the very principles our nation and our child welfare system were founded upon. This waiver wrongly uses the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) as a justification to bypass nondiscrimination protections that apply to volunteers and parents in the foster care and adoption system. This means that taxpayer-funded child welfare agencies could discriminate against foster parents based on their religious beliefs, ignoring the best interests of our most vulnerable children and exacerbating the shortage of qualified foster parents. This misinterpretation of the original intent of RFRA violates the U.S. Constitution by allowing religion to be used to harm others. It represents a drastic departure from long-standing federal protections that have applied to partnerships between the government and faith-based providers for decades. Allowing child placing agencies to ignore federal nondiscrimination requirements undermines the primary rule of child welfare: that the best interests of children come first. Permitting these agencies to use a religious litmus test to turn away qualified adoptive and foster parents reduces the number of loving families available to the over 4,000 children in South Carolina’s foster care system and the more than 400,000 children in foster care nationwide. Many of those children live in group homes, are separated from siblings, or age out of foster care without ever becoming part of a family because of the shortage of foster and adoptive families to care for them. With nearly one in five foster youth identifying as LGBTQ, this puts LGBTQ children particularly at risk. When diverse foster and adoptive families are turned away, these youth are harmed by not finding accepting, affirming families who will love them for who they are and respect their identities. This reprehensible decision demonstrates that extremists within the Trump administration value a narrow set of religious beliefs over the need to find loving, stable homes for children currently in state care. We are writing to express our strong condemnation of this waiver because it will deny children the safe, loving, and happy families they deserve and turn away qualified potential parents. We strongly urge you to stop this despicable taxpayer-funded discrimination and uphold the essential nondiscrimination protections that ensure that every child has a loving home.
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON – Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Grace Meng (NY-6), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) applauded House Administration Committee Chairperson Zoe Lofgren’s response to their request to clarify official policy regarding the use of official funds to purchase feminine hygiene products and their request that the House Office Supply Store be directed to carry such products. The members made the request only yesterday and received a swift response in a letter from Chairperson Lofgren announcing the new policy, expressly allowing the use of official funds for the purchase of feminine hygiene products and requiring the House Office Supply Store to stock them. Last year, under Republican leadership, Rep. Maloney was denied the use of official funds to buy a box of tampons and was directed to write a personal check to reimburse the House for the purchase. “Thanks to Chairperson Lofgren’s leadership, policies on Capitol Hill are finally catching on to the fact that women work here,” said Rep. Maloney. “After last year’s chaos, it’s helpful to have this clarity. I thank Zoe Lofgren for being a champion for workplace equality.” “This decision is a tremendous step forward in providing greater access to menstrual hygiene products on Capitol Hill,” said Rep. Meng. “It will ensure that House offices are able to provide these necessary items to staff and visitors who require them. I commend Chairperson Lofgren’s decision and leadership, and I thank her for her swift response to our call for guidance on this issue. I’m thrilled that there will no longer be any uncertainty or confusion over purchasing these essential products.” “I am grateful for Chairperson Lofgren’s swift action on this matter. While this decision will benefit Congressional staff, access to menstrual products is a global equity issue,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The inability to access or afford menstrual products, known as ‘period poverty,’ has a wide ranging impact, from leading girls to miss school to creating significant health risks. Florida is among a majority of states that have abolished the sales tax on menstrual products, but there is still significant work to do to address this healthcare issue and treat women’s health needs with dignity.” The MRA is the annual allowance provided to each Congressional office to pay staff, fund official travel, and for the purchase of official supplies and office necessities. Congressional offices are permitted to use the funds to pay for other necessary hygienic products, as well as embellished letter openers, brass bookends, gavel sets with engravable plates, and wooden “executive tissue holders.” On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received an email from the Committee on House Administration alerting him that the purchase was not permissible and that he would be required to personally reimburse the funds. More than half of Rep. Maloney’s Washington staff are female, and the office hosts constituents and other visitors who may need access to these products on a daily basis.
02.11.2019	Letter Also Asks House Admin to Make Such Products Available in House Office Supply Store WASHINGTON – Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Grace Meng (NY-6), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) have asked House Administration Committee Chairperson Zoe Lofgren to issue guidance on the House’s policy regarding the use of official funds to purchase feminine hygiene products in a letter. The letter also asks the committee to make these products available in the House Office Supple Store, which already offers stain removal pens and rubber gloves. In June, Rep. Maloney used his Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA) to purchase a box of tampons, but was told by the House Finance Office that the purchase was not allowed, and that he would instead have to personally reimburse the office for the expense. The outgoing House Administration Committee Chairman failed to provide official guidance to House offices after the incident, and instead gave conflicting statements to members of the press regarding the policy. “The whole ordeal was ridiculous – the old committee chair told us we couldn’t use the MRA for tampons, then walked it back. But to this day, I don’t know what the official policy is – we just need some clarification, and Chairperson Lofgren is the best person to provide it,” said Rep. Maloney. “Like I said repeatedly last year, saying tampons are superfluous but other hygiene products like hand sanitizer and tissues are totally necessary reinforces the idea that our rules are written by men, for men, and that women are merely second-class citizens on Capitol Hill.” “It is critical for all women to have access to menstrual hygiene products and that includes those who work on or visit Capitol Hill,” said Congresswoman Meng. “Providing clear and appropriate guidance would ensure that House offices are able to provide these necessary items to women who require them. These products are basic and essential necessities, just like hand soap and toilet paper, and there should be no confusion or vagueness over how to pay for them. I am proud to have championed many initiatives over the past several years that have increased women’s access to menstrual hygiene products, and I’m pleased to help undertake this effort as well.” “It is past time to address outdated policies that were written without consideration of women inside the chambers of Congress,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “For years, I have advocated for the House of Representatives to facilitate consistent and easier access to necessary menstrual products. This is a basic, but critical health concern for most women, and failing to provide access to these products reflects a disregard for the needs of women and the leadership they bring to the Capitol.” The MRA is the annual allowance provided to each Congressional office to pay staff, fund official travel, and for the purchase of official supplies and office necessities. Congressional offices are permitted to use the funds to pay for other necessary hygienic products as well as embellished letter openers, brass bookends, gavel sets with engravable plates, and wooden “executive tissue holders.” On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received an email from the Committee on House Administration alerting him that the purchase was not permissible and that he would be required to personally reimburse the funds. More than half of Rep. Maloney’s Washington staff are female, and the office hosts constituents and other visitors who may need access to these products on a daily basis. After the incident, the House Administration’s spokesperson claimed the purchase was not denied in the first place. In response to that claim, Rep. Maloney released the text of the email and conducted a “dramatic reading” on video of the email’s text. Personal details on the staffers involved were withheld to protect their personal privacy. The text of the letter is available below and a scanned copy is available here. Dear Chairperson Lofgren and Ranking Member Davis, As you begin your tenure as the leaders of the Committee on House Administration, we ask that you clarify in your guidance that Members may use their Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA) to purchase menstrual products and that you provide these products in the House Office Supply Store. According to the Members’ Congressional Handbook, the MRA must only be used for “ordinary and necessary” expenses in support of the Member’s official and representational duties. This has been interpreted to include hygienic products such as lotion, tissues, first aid kits – and even a tissue box engraved with a congressional seal has qualified as an MRA-approved purchase. Just as these items are necessary for employees of the House of Representatives, so too are menstrual products. Under current leadership, the Committee initially provided unclear guidance on the purchase of menstrual products leading to confusion over what the MRA covers and what it does not. For thousands of House employees, menstrual products are a necessity, not an optional luxury. In addition to clarifying your guidance, we ask that you make menstrual products available for purchase in the House Office Supply Store. Currently, Members and staff may purchase MRA-approved products in the store. These include items ranging from a stain removal pen to rubber gloves. Menstrual products, which are only available in limited locations across the Capitol, should be included among this collection of items. The record number of women who were elected to the 116th Congress have shown us the power, diversity, and representation that women bring to the table. As they joined our ranks – many of them proud champions of gender equity – Congress will need to evolve with the needs of Members and their staff. And this begins with meeting the basic needs of women on Capitol Hill. These changes are a small, but important step towards greater gender equity in Congress. We thank you for considering our request.
02.11.2019	Newburgh, NY – For the fifth year in a row, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney has ended his “Valentines for Veterans” initiative by hand-delivering thousands of valentines to veterans at Castle Point. Thanks to overwhelming support from the Hudson Valley, Rep. Maloney expanded the initiative this year and delivered additional valentines to veterans service organizations at his local office in Newburgh. A final set of valentines will be sent to the deployed airmen of the 105th Airlift Wing, based at Stewart Air National Guard Base. Rep. Maloney Stands with Members of the 105th Airlift Wing based at Stewart Air National Guard Base. “The veterans get a huge kick out of receiving a valentine – it may seem like a small gesture, but it makes a big impact and it’s a great way to show our appreciation for our veterans' service and sacrifice,” said Rep. Maloney. “I want to thank everyone who took some time to show some love for our veterans.” “It’s great Congressman Maloney is having this event to recognize veterans on Valentine’s Day,” said Commander Tommy Zurhellen of American Legion Post 170 in Poughkeepsie. “A lot of times veterans who are disabled or in hospice don’t get the connection a lot of us take for granted on holidays like this.” Dozens of schools, scouting troops, and businesses from across the Hudson Valley participated in the event and sent in thousands of valentines over the past month. Walden Savings Bank in Orange County alone collected over 2,000 valentines.
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) last night honored fallen Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer Michael Kozloski of Mahopac in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. Kozloski was only 35 and is survived by his wife, Brie, and four children. A link to the speech and its transcript are available below. In addition to delivering the speech, Rep. Maloney will send a copy of the Congressional Record including the speech to Kozloski’s family. Rep. Maloney’s Speech can be viewed here A transcript of Rep. Maloney’s remarks is available below. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise to honor a young man from my district in New York's Hudson valley who passed away last week while serving his country. A Coast Guard Chief Warrant officer Michael Kozlowski, originally from New York, was only 35 years old he died of injuries sustained in a crane accident serving in Alaska. He leaves behind his wife of 15 years, Brie, and four young children. He dedicated his entire adult life, 17 years, to protecting our country as a member of the Coast Guard. We owe Mike and his family an enormous debt of gratitude for his service and making the ultimate sacrifice in defense of his country. I spoke to Mike's wife earlier and she said the community of Homer, Alaska, has been at her side, and family has flown in. How fitting to be reminded that as Americans we still rally to our heroes and their families at these difficult times. I ask all of us to join in prayer for Michael and his family. We'll be closely monitoring the ongoing investigation in this incident and offering our assistance as needed. Our hearts go out to Michael’s family, his friends, and the entire Coast Guard community. We thank them for their service. We remember Michael for his sacrifice. A web version of this release is available here.
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has signed on to a resolution committing the House of Representatives to establishing and defining a “Green New Deal.” This resolution is the first step toward crafting a bold set of measures which aim to combat climate change, support our unions, and get more Americans working. A House Resolution is used to express nonbinding positions of the House of Representatives and does not require action by the Senate or the president. The ultimate climate goal for the resolution is for America to reach zero net carbon emissions by 2050. “Climate change is a clear and present danger. We can’t sit on our hands or wait around anymore – it’s time to find bold solutions,” said Rep. Maloney. “The Green New Deal will help us find a strategy to take action in time for it to do us some good. Time is not our friend in this fight. The sooner we find real solutions, the easier it will be to stop the problem.” The Green New Deal Resolution would commit the House of Representatives to leading a ten-year national mobilization to move America to a net contribution of zero carbon emissions by 2050 while investing in jobs and infrastructure. The resolution does not make prescriptive policy recommendations on how to achieve these goals. Some of the goals of the resolution include: Meeting 100% of power demand through clean, renewable, and zero-emission sources by 2050. Creating millions of good-paying jobs. Investing in 21st century infrastructure. Securing a basic standard of living for all Americans that includes a clean environment and access to nutrition. Last year, Rep. Maloney introduced the Carbon Reduction and Tax Credit Act, which would price carbon and return the proceeds to taxpayers. Specifically, the bill would price carbon at $40 per ton and index the price to inflation. It would then create a tax credit up to $1,000 for each taxpayer and each dependent.
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s second State of the Union Address. “I’ll believe it when I see it. It’s one thing to talk about being bipartisan, but it’s another thing to actually do it. If the president wants to work together on rebuilding our failing infrastructure and fighting HIV, count me in. If he wants to keep throwing fits and flying solo, we’re going to miss important opportunities to get things done for the people.”
02.04.2019	Trump Noted Emergency Declaration Could be Announced During State of the Union WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) is cautioning that a national emergency declaration could threaten $252 million worth of funding already allocated for construction projects at the United States Military Academy at West Point, which he represents in Congress. A national emergency declaration would allow the president to raid funds from the military construction budget to pay for his proposed wall along the border with Mexico. The president noted in an interview last Friday that he may announce an emergency declaration during the State of the Union. Threatened projects at West Point include a state of the art engineering facility, the West Point Cemetery, a water treatment plant, and a parking structure. “It doesn’t matter if you support building a wall or not – we can’t steal funding from the next generation of military leaders to do it,” said Rep. Maloney. “We set money aside to pay for projects like the engineering center and getting clean water for our cadets – not a wall. Congress has the power of the purse and we make the calls on where money is going. It would be incredibly irresponsible of the president to exceed his authority and raid other funding which was set aside by Congress because of a contrived national emergency.” If the president declares a national emergency and directs the military to build his proposed wall, he has the authority to draw “unobligated” funds in the military construction budget to pay for it. In this context, “unobligated” means funding that has been appropriated by Congress, but not obligated by a contract. Funding for four projects that fit this criteria could be on the line if the president declares a national emergency. Additional projects, like the ongoing renovation of the barracks at West Point, would not be affected by a potential national emergency declaration. Four of nine barracks involved in the project have already been completed, and additional funding has not yet been appropriated by Congress for the completion of the five remaining barracks. Projects that could see their funding raided include: Engineering Center – $95,000,000 Funding will be used by the Army’s corps of cadets to support the work of the Military Academy’s Center for Innovation and Engineering. This will allow the cadets greater access to project based learning, a unique aspect of the USMA chemical and manufacturing engineering curriculum. Many of the projects undertaken by cadets directly support the Army Research Development and Engineering Command (RDECOM). West Point Cemetery – $22,000,000 These funds were allocated as part of a larger effort to expand the number of burial plots available at the West Point Cemetery. The project will develop the Old PX Gas Station into burial grounds that will accommodate official government upright headstones. Water Treatment Plant – $70,000,000 Funding will allow the construction of a new wastewater treatment plant on campus. This will play a large role in the general modernization of West Point that will provide cadets with the best possible facilities as they prepare to defend our nation. Parking Structure – $65,000,000 These funds will be used to build a new parking garage in the central post area of campus. This will allow more visitors to park in the central area of campus and provide more cadets to bring cars to the base.
02.03.2019	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to the death of Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer Michael Kozloski of Mahopac. “My heart goes out to Michael Kozloski’s family, his fellow Guardsmen, and the community in Mahopac. “Michael dedicated his entire adult life to protecting our country as a member of the Coast Guard, and his service will not be forgotten. I ask the Hudson Valley to join me in praying for Officer Kozloski’s family and offering support during this difficult time. “I will continue to monitor this situation as additional details come to light. The Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation stands ready to provide support to the Guard as they seek answers and work to ensure we prevent accidents moving forward.” Chief Warrant Officer Michael Kozloski died after being injured in a crane accident in Homer, Alaska this week. Kozloski was 35 years old and had served in the Coast Guard for 17 years. The Coast Guard is currently investigating the incident. Rep. Maloney serves as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation.
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has once again signed on to the Paycheck Fairness Act as an original cosponsor. The legislation aims to eliminate the gender pay gap – which still sees women paid an average of only 80 cents per dollar earned by men – by strengthening the 1963 Equal Pay Act and closing existing loopholes which have prevented women from taking action on unfair payment practices. “The reality of fair pay has not caught up with its promise – people should be paid based on the substance of their work, not their gender,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s long past time to close the loopholes that have allowed women to be treated unfairly and empower our businesses and oversight agencies to level the playing field for everyone.” The Paycheck Fairness Act would strengthen the 1963 Equal Pay Act by requiring businesses to prove that pay disparities between men and women working the same job are based on legitimate job-related reasons, not on their gender. It would also ban retaliation against employees who discuss their salary, remove obstacles for women to engage in class-action lawsuits over unfair pay practices, provide assistance to businesses to help implement equal pay practices, and prohibit employers from seeing prospective employees’ salary history information. Finally, the legislation would provide the Department of Labor (DOL) and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) with additional tools necessary to uncover wage discrimination. In the Hudson Valley, the gender pay ratio is one cent below the national average, with women making 79 cents to every dollar earned by men, according to data compiled by the National Partnership for Woman and Families. Nationally, this distinction can translate to a loss of $400,000 over the course of a woman’s career. The disparity is even larger for women of color. Ending the gender pay gap is the first priority on Rep. Maloney’s Agenda to Improve Economic Opportunities for Women. He has cosponsored the legislation every term since joining Congress in 2013. With Democrats in the majority, the House is finally poised to pass the legislation through the House of Representatives.
01.30.2019	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released emergency contact information to provide folks in the Hudson Valley with the information they need to get help in the event of emergency situations in advance of tonight’s frigid temperatures, which are forecasted to dip well below freezing. Warming stations, county emergency services, and utility contact information is available below to help constituents prepare for and respond to tonight’s weather. Constituents are reminded to call 911 only in emergency situations. Warming Center Information Orange County Middletown – HONOR, 38 Seward Ave., Middletown – St. Paul’s Church, 58 Main St., Newburgh – Newburgh Ministry, 104 South Lander St., Port Jervis – St. Peter’s Lutheran Church, 31 West Main St., Dutchess County Beacon – Salvation Army, 372 Main Street Beacon – Howland Public Library, 313 Main Street Poughkeepsie – Public Safety Building, 505 Main Street Poughkeepsie – Salvation Army, 19 Pershing Avenue Putnam County Brewster – 52 Main Street, Brewster (arrive at 8:45) For questions, call Putnam County DSS: 845-808-1500 x45100 or x45233 Westchester County Jan Peek House, 200 N Water St, Peekskill Phone: (914) 736-2636 Emergency Services Information Orange County – (845)-615-0479 Dutchess County – (845) 486-2080 Putnam County – (845) 808-4000 x41107 Westchester County – (845) 486-2081 Utility Information ConEdison power outage or gas and electrical service problems: (800) 75-CONED NYSEG electricity power outage: (800) 572-1131 NYSEG natural gas power outage: (800) 572-1121 Central Hudson: 845-452-2700
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has called for Congressional action in response to a recent report that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is preparing a plan to refrain from regulating PFOS and PFOA, chemicals found in some household products and firefighting foams. In 2016, studies revealed that the City of Newburgh’s municipal water supply was contaminated by PFOS and PFOA runoff from firefighting foam at Stewart Air National Guard Base. Although safe alternative water sources have been in use for years, many of the city’s residents show blood levels of PFOS and PFOA above the national average, and the original water source contains levels of PFOS and PFOA above what the EPA has deemed to be safe. “People in Newburgh were put in danger when their drinking water was contaminated with PFOS – we can’t let the EPA get away with turning their backs on us and refusing to regulate chemicals we know are dangerous,” said Rep. Maloney. “If the EPA has decided to protect polluters instead of human health, it’s up to Congress to pass legislation to force them to do the right thing.” At the direction of Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, the EPA is reportedly preparing a plan to decline to regulate PFOS and PFOA in drinking water nationwide even though studies have found that it can be damaging to human health. Last year, after news reports revealed that former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and other administration officials conspired to cover up the results of a study on the health effects of PFOS and PFOA exposure, Rep. Maloney demanded that the EPA and Department of Health and Human Services immediately release the results of the study. The draft study was ultimately released the next month. In May of 2016, abnormally and unacceptably high levels of PFOS and PFOA were found in Newburgh’s water supply. Since the discovery, Rep. Maloney has worked to secure blood testing, pressured the EPA to provide immediate material assistance, and has attempted to force the Department of Defense (DoD) to remediate the issue. On May 19, 2016, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water after the agency had relied on a provisional advisory since 2009. Less than a week later, the EPA released a full health advisory. Rep. Maloney’s Investing in Testing Act was signed into law as part of a larger bill in December, 2017. The provision requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a five-year, $7 million federal study into the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA exposure. Rep. Maloney originally introduced the legislation in October of 2016 and reintroduced the bill in February of 2017 in response to water contamination concerns in Newburgh.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s agreement to support legislation to temporarily end the partial government shutdown and pay federal workers. Now, Congress will have to pass a three-week continuing resolution or “CR” to temporarily provide funding through February 15th. “Of course I am happy that government employees will get paid and that this particular chaos has ended for now, but this is the exact same "deal" the President rejected five weeks ago. His pointless shutdown did nothing but hurt people and weaken our country. “Now that the lights are back on, we can have a serious conversation about additional border security. I am hopeful that we can come to a bipartisan agreement on what having a “secure border” means and how we can achieve that worthwhile goal.
01.24.2019	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will hold four “Speak with Sean” town halls this weekend in Orange, Putnam, and Westchester Counties. Amid the ongoing government shutdown, Rep. Maloney wants to give his constituents the opportunity to make their voices heard and get help with federal services. More information on each event is available below. Interested press outlets should RSVP to Ian Lee, Ian.Lee@mail.house.gov. Saturday, January 26th Highland Falls Town Hall Saturday January 26, 2019, 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Highland Falls Intermediate School Auditorium, 52 Mountain Ave, Highland Falls NY 10928 Goshen Town Hall Saturday January 26, 2019, 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Orange County Emergency Center Auditorium, 22 Wells Farm Rd, Goshen NY 10924 Sunday, January 27th Bedford Hills Town Hall Sunday January 27, 2019, 12:30 PM - 1:30 PM Justice Court Room in the Town of Bedford Town House, 321 Bedford Rd, Bedford Hills NY 10507 Putnam Valley Town Hall Sunday January 27, 2019, 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM Putnam Valley High School Auditorium, 146 Peekskill Hollow Rd, Putnam Valley NY Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has hosted 81 “Speak with Sean” town halls and neighborhood office hours to give folks in the Hudson Valley a chance to make their voices heard directly and to get help with federal services.
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) was elected by his fellow Democrats on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to serve as the next Chairman of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee. The subcommittee has jurisdiction over the United States Coast Guard, the regulation of seafaring vessels and their crews, the regulation of commerce and the merchant marine, and more. “The Hudson River is a natural treasure, a site of recreation for thousands of people, and a key to local and national commerce – my top priority as the next Chairman of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee will be protecting it from all threats,” said Rep. Maloney. “The men and women of the Coast Guard protect our waterways and prevent drugs from reaching our shores. I’m absolutely committed to ensuring Coast Guard personnel receive the tools and resources they need to get the job done – and that includes paying them for their work. We have to end this shutdown and restore their funding immediately.” “I have complete confidence in the leadership of Sean Patrick Maloney and can assure my Coast Guard brothers and sisters that they are in great hands with him as the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation,” said Robert K. Lanier, U.S. Coast Guard Chief, retired, and member of Rep. Maloney’s Service Academy Selection Board. “Coast Guard leadership is receiving a chairman who has emulated the service’s motto of ‘honor, respect and devotion to duty’ throughout his career and I know he is ‘Always Ready’ to work across party lines, weigh all issues carefully and make the right decisions no matter how tough.” The Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has jurisdiction over a wide array of issue areas ranging from the oversight and support of the Coast Guard – to the regulation of shipping, ports and waterways, and environmental protection. Rep. Maloney is committed to making strategic investments in the Coast Guard to improve drug interdiction and other national security operations. He will also focus on strengthening environmental safeguards for New York and the nation’s waterways. Rep. Maloney will also work to protect the Hudson River from all threats. In 2016, the Coast Guard issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which would have allowed the construction of ten new anchorage sites on the river between Yonkers and Kingston. After receiving approximately 10,000 negative comments and overwhelming bipartisan opposition, the Coast Guard suspended its proposal and instead opted to hold a series of Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) workshops, which concluded that no additional anchorage sites were necessary. Rep. Maloney worked to pass his legislation, the Anchorages Away Act, into law, which would require the Coast Guard to brief Congress prior to making any future proposals to construct anchorage sites in the Hudson River. Last week, Rep. Maloney was appointed to serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), commonly known as the Intelligence Committee. In addition to the Intelligence and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees, Rep. Maloney will also once again serve on the House Committee on Agriculture.
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has reintroduced his package of bills to honor late Hudson Valley Congressmen Maurice Hinchey and Ben Gilman by adding their names to local landmarks. The first bill would honor former Rep. Hinchey by adding his name to the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area, which Hinchey worked to establish. The second bill would honor former Rep. Gilman, who served on the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee, by adding his name to the post office at 40 Fulton Street in Middletown. Every member of the New York delegation has signed on to each bill as an original cosponsor. “The Hudson Valley lost two beloved representatives over the past couple years, and it’s only fitting that we honor them by adding their names to local landmarks,” said Rep. Maloney. “We have overwhelming support from the New York Delegation and a bunch of members in the majority party – we’re going to get these bills passed into law.” “I served with both Maurice Hinchey and Ben Gilman – they were excellent representatives who fought for their constituents and the environment,” said Rep. Peter King (NY-2). “I can think of no more fitting tribute to their service than adding their names to the local landmarks they fought to invest in and protect.” Rep. Maloney originally announced the legislation last March at press conferences at Locust Grove Estate in Dutchess County and the Middletown City Hall. Republican Rep. Pete King (NY-02), who served alongside the former Hudson Valley Congressman, will once again co-lead the effort. Every other member of the New York Delegation has joined the effort as a cosponsor. The Maurice Hinchey Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area To honor Rep. Hinchey’s commitment to our natural world, Rep. Maloney announced a bill to add Rep. Hinchey’s name to the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area. Rep. Maurice Hinchey died in November of 2017 after serving the Hudson Valley in Congress for years. One of his greatest legacies is his commitment to cleaning up the Hudson River and protecting the environment, including authoring the bill that established the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area. The Benjamin Gilman Post Office in Middletown Rep. Ben Gilman died in December of 2016, after representing the Middletown area in Congress for 30 years, including time serving as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Although he rose to national prominence in this position, Rep. Gilman was renowned for his commitment to local communities in Orange County, especially Middletown. He served on the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee and believed that the mail was the one part of government that touched every American.
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Supreme Court allowed President Donald Trump’s ban on transgender troops to go into effect, staying a lower court’s ruling. “This is an incredibly disappointing decision that will create chaos for transgender people in the military as we await a final decision by the courts. The ultimate ruling on this issue should support military service by capable and committed personnel – regardless of how they identify. “Transgender troops have served with Seal Team Six, graduated from West Point, and have been decorated with some of our country’s highest honors. These folks have a proven ability to get the job done and make our country safer. The president’s ban didn’t come from the Pentagon or the Secretary of Defense – it was always more about politics and discrimination than national security.”
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has joined a group of House Democratic lawmakers to introduce the Federal Employee Civil Relief Act, which would protect federal employees who have been furloughed or are working without pay from facing civil action during – or within 30 days following – a government shutdown. Approximately 800,000 federal workers missed their first round of paychecks last week due to the ongoing partial government shutdown, the longest in American history. “Folks who work for TSA, the Bureau of Prisons, the EPA, and other federal agencies are all going without pay through no fault of their own – the least we can do is make sure they don’t lose their homes or their insurance because Washington can’t get its act together,” said Rep. Maloney. “This bill will provide the protections our federal workers need during this difficult time and we’ll be working to pass it into law." The Federal Employee Civil Relief Act is modelled after an existing law, the Servicemember Civil Relief Act, which provides similar protections to members of the armed services on active duty. The new legislation would protect federal workers and contractors from eviction and foreclosure, property repossession, falling behind in loan payments or bills, and losing insurance coverage because of missed premiums. Rep. Maloney introduced the legislation alongside other House Democratic lawmakers. A companion version of the legislation has been introduced in the Senate. Last week, Rep. Maloney supported legislation to guarantee back pay for federal employees who are currently going without pay.
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has been named to serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), commonly known as the Intelligence Committee. Rep. Maloney will serve as the lone Democratic New Yorker on the committee. “New York was hit with the worst terrorist attack in our country’s history on September 11th - and the Hudson Valley in particular paid a terrible price,” said Rep. Maloney. “We need an Intelligence Committee representative in the majority who knows our state and can help look out for our best interest. It’s an honor to be named to serve on the committee, and I look forward to ensuring that America, its people, and our democracy are safe from all threats.” “New York needs strong, bipartisan representation on the House Intelligence Committee to prioritize our state’s security needs,” said Representative Peter King (NY-02), who has served on the Intelligence Committee. “Congressman Maloney has a proven record of working across the aisle to keep America safe, and he is a wonderful addition to the House Intelligence Committee.” “As the chairman of Congressman Maloney’s Veterans Committee, I am pleased to see that Congressman Maloney has been named to the House Intelligence Committee. The House Intelligence Committee oversees the nation’s intelligence community including components of the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security. Congressman Maloney has demonstrated a commitment to our nation, and most importantly to the veterans and their families. His appointment to this committee will ensure that service personnel and various intelligence agencies are provided the necessary resources, most importantly funding priorities, as they combat the national security threats to our nation,” said John Hussey, Chairman of Congressman Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board. “I congratulate Congressman Maloney on his selection to serve on the House Intelligence Committee. America needs Congress to provide support and oversight to the nation’s intelligence community. The Hudson Valley suffered greatly and lost far too many people during the terrorist attacks of 9-11; we must never let that happen again. To keep America and, in turn, New York State safe we need a strong defense that can act on accurate intelligence. I firmly believe that the important work the House Intelligence Committee does will help ensure Congress places the proper focus and emphasis on intelligence, and prioritizes New York’s critical national security interests and concerns,” said Colonel Glenn Goldman (US Army, retired), a member of Rep Maloney’s Service Academy Selection Board. The Intelligence Committee oversees all intelligence activities and has jurisdiction over a wide variety of agencies ranging from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to the Departments of Energy and the Treasury. The committee handles a range of issues including cyber security, election hacking, and growing threats from both state and non-state actors. Under the Democratic Majority, the committee will take an active role in investigating Russian efforts to interfere in the 2016 Presidential Election.
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) honored late Sergeant Joseph Farina of New Windsor today in a speech on the Floor of the House of Representatives. Sergeant Farina was a co-founding member of the Purple Heart Hall of Honor in New Windsor, New York and passed away in December at the age of 97. Click the Link Above to Watch Representative Maloney’s Speech A transcript of Rep. Maloney’s remarks is below. Madame Speaker, in a time of disfunction and rancor, it's useful to remember a time when America led the world because of the heroism of everyday Americans. I rise today to honor the life and legacy of Sergeant Joseph Farina of New Windsor, New York. Joe was a regular guy who ran a bowling alley in Newburgh, New York. He was a 20-year-old and member of the National Guard when America was attacked at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. That very night, Joseph volunteered for service. During the war he was deployed to the Philippines and to New Guinea, where his service earned him four battle stars, numerous other medals and two Presidential Citations. Joseph passed away at his home last month at the age of 97. Next to him was his wife of 76 years, Elizabeth, who he had married in Brisbane, Australia at the height of the war in 1942. Joseph would actually work in Australia for many years and pioneer the sport of bowling there. But his legacy is far broader than that, not only to his country during his service in World War II, but also to the veterans' community in the Hudson Valley and across America. He was active in many veterans' organizations - the Catholic War Veterans - and he helped to co-found the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor in New Windsor, New York. The Hall of Honor is dedicated to collecting and sharing the stories of Purple Heart recipients. No comprehensive list of Purple Heart recipients exists, and the Hall acts as an important archive and monument to their service. Joseph, like so many in his generation, knew what it meant to serve others. Like so many of his generation, he worked in his community and was a person dedicated to something bigger than himself. What a powerful lesson for all of us to recall today. He was a model American citizen and he will be missed. Thank you Madame Speaker and I yield back.
01.14.2019	Because of Overwhelming Public Response, Maloney to Distribute Additional Valentines to Local Veterans Service Organizations Newburgh, NY – To honor our veterans’ service and sacrifice, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his fifth annual “Valentines for Veterans” initiative, encouraging his neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to join him in making Valentine’s Day cards to send to our veterans. Rep. Maloney’s Valentines for Veterans program provides schools, families, individuals, and businesses in the Hudson Valley with the opportunity to send Valentine’s Day greetings to our veterans. Because of overwhelming public support for the effort, Rep. Maloney will distribute the Valentines to local veterans service agencies in addition to veterans who live at Castle Point. “The vets at Castle Point get a real kick out of getting valentines from folks across the Hudson Valley, and I encourage everyone to consider taking some time to show appreciation for our veterans service and sacrifice,” said Rep. Maloney. “We owe everything to our vets, and this is one simple way to show our support and brighten their day.” Interested participants should contact Rep. Maloney’s office at (845) 561-1259. Valentines may be mailed to or dropped off at his Newburgh District Office by 5:00 PM on Friday, February 8th. Click here for the invitation.
01.10.2019	Implementation of Best-Ever Farm Bill for the Hudson Valley Stalled Due to Shutdown WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) voted today to fund the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as well as the Department of Transportation (DOT) and Housing and Urban Development while the agencies struggle to provide key services during the partial government shutdown. Rep. Maloney warned that failure to re-open USDA and FDA could prevent local farmers from accessing key programs. Bills to re-open DOT and USDA were passed individually and mirror legislation which was passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in the Senate in December. “We just got some great news for farmers with the 2018 Farm Bill, but it doesn’t do a lick of good if you don’t fund the programs and have people working at offices like the one in Middletown,” said Rep. Maloney. “The Senate needs to take this funding bill back up and pass it again so we can make sure our farmers can get new crop insurance, apply for the improved dairy program, and make sure SNAP recipients get their benefits and that funding is available to New York to improve our transit systems and bridges. ” Rep. Maloney fought to ensure the 2018 Farm Bill was tailor-made for farmers in the Hudson Valley. He outlined local wins in a press conference last month in New Hampton. Although the new Farm Bill provided much-needed reforms to a litany of important programs, funding for the USDA and FDA lapsed on December 21st. Without that funding, new programs cannot be implemented and the local Farm Service Agency (FSA) office is closed. Additional concerning effects of the shutdown include: The best-ever Farm Bill for the Hudson Valley won’t be implemented until after the shutdown. Struggling dairy operations across New York can’t access the improved Dairy Margin Coverage (DMC) program. Provisions for beginning farmers and ranchers can’t go into effect. Sign-up for 2019 crop year safety net programs will be delayed into the planting season. USDA’s Risk Management Agency offices and Farm Service Agency (FSA) county offices, including the Facility in Middletown, are shut down. Farmers can’t sign up for new crop insurance products to benefit a range of smaller crops as well as dairy operations. Farmers can’t continue discussions with their lenders regarding direct or guaranteed operating loans for 2019, which hurts their ability to plan for the coming year. USDA’s Rural Development Program Funding is on hold. Programs cannot proceed to address drinking water needs or sewage systems upgrades in rural communities, many of which have degraded infrastructure in need of repair. Loans and grants for Community Facility & Distance Learning and Telemedicine programs cannot be allocated, yet another blow to small towns trying to provide healthcare and senior and child care for their residents, or education and training opportunities to attract businesses. SNAP recipients are guaranteed benefits – but only through February. USDA used a funding cushion to pre-load February benefits onto recipients’ cards, but if action isn’t taken before the end of February, benefits for March could lapse. Nearly 20,000 households in the Hudson Valley rely on the SNAP program. The Food and Drug Administration is not conducting food safety inspections. Most food safety inspections have stopped altogether and 41% of staff are furloughed. FDA is not currently able to conduct food inspections for common issues like salmonella in breakfast cereal, E. coli in romaine lettuce, or listeria in ice cream. Companies can still provide internal audits and make recall announcements through FDA. Drug approval is paid through user fees, so those programs are continuing to function normally. The Federal Highway Administration and Federal Transit Administration can’t provide funding to states for new projects. Normally, federal money for highway projects becomes available when a new fiscal year begins, but the agencies were running on a continuing resolution, and that funding ran out on Dec. 21. Only a quarter of the $44 billion for highway projects and $11 billion in federal transit programs was paid at the beginning of the fiscal year. New York State gets about 49% of its highway and bridge funding from USDOT.
01.09.2019	Millions of Americans with Pre-Existing Conditions Could Lose Coverage if Lawsuit Is Successful WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) voted to direct the Office of General Counsel of the House of Representatives to intervene in defense of the 2010 Affordable Care Act (ACA) even as the Department of Justice (DOJ) has refused to back the landmark health care reform law in court. Last month, a federal judge in Texas ruled in favor of 20 state attorneys general who claimed that the entire law should be struck down, meaning millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions could lose coverage. “Sure, health care reform isn’t perfect, but we can’t throw out the baby with the bathwater on this – we need to protect the expanded coverage we won in the ACA while working to cut the cost of care and prescription drugs,” said Rep. Maloney. “Since DOJ won’t defend the law – and it’s on the ropes – we’re going to get House Counsel involved to defend people’s access to life-saving care.” The case was brought by twenty Republican state attorneys general, led by the State of Texas. It centers around a provision of the 2017 tax law pushed by Republicans, which eliminated the individual mandate that previously required every American have insurance. In December, Federal District Court Judge Reed O’Connor ruled that without the individual mandate the law is unconstitutional, rendering it invalid in its entirety. In June of 2018, DOJ announced that it would not defend the law in court against the suit, leaving it vulnerable to the partisan attack by the states. The ruling has been appealed by 16 other states and the law will remain in effect during the appeals process. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, over 52 million Americans between 18-64 have a pre-existing condition. If Judge O’Connor’s decision is upheld by the higher courts, millions of Americans could lose their access to coverage, or it could become unaffordable. Rep. Maloney supports the 2010 health care reform law, but believes we can make key improvements to cut the costs of care while protecting the expanded coverage it guaranteed.
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) release the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s address to the nation regarding the partial government shutdown. “We’re still in the same position we’ve been in for a month – and I’ll keep saying the same thing: we can have border security and fund the government at the same time. “This fight is not helping anybody – but it has left 800,000 federal workers in the lurch and threatens federal services millions more rely on. It’s time for the president and Congress to do our jobs and get the lights back on while also investing in effective border security measures that will keep us safe.” Last week, Rep. Maloney voted to end the government shutdown without funding a border wall. The House will begin voting on another series of bills tomorrow which would fund government agencies.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has signed on to his first bill of the 116th Congress, H.R. 1, the For the People Act. The comprehensive legislation aims to reduce money’s influence on politics, strengthen ethics laws for all three branches of the federal government, and protect Americans’ sacred right to vote. Rep. Maloney has supported similar legislation in the past. “People trust Washington about as much as they trust gas station sushi,” said Rep. Maloney. “It wasn’t always that way and it doesn’t have to be anymore. People want big money out of politics, they want their elected officials to act honorably, and they want a strong democracy that protects everyone’s right to vote. This is the first bill I’m on this Congress because cleaning up Washington should be a priority for everyone who works down here.” The For the People Act builds on similar Democratic efforts in previous sessions of Congress to reform our political system in a variety of key ways. The bill’s reforms fall into three broad categories. Weaken the Power of Money in Politics Under the legislation, all political organizations would be required to disclose their large donors – which would undo the current system which allows virtually unlimited “dark money” to flow into campaigns. It would also create a funds-matching system to elevate the voices of small-dollar donors to political campaigns. Additionally, the bill would update political advertising laws to address digital ads, and revamp the Federal Election Commission (FEC), the federal watchdog charged with ensuring compliance with federal election law. Strengthen Ethics Laws The bill would close existing loopholes that allow recently-retired members of Congress to sidestep “cooling off” laws, which prevent lobbying immediately after leaving Congress. It would also require the president and vice president to release their tax returns and break the “revolving door” which allows federal officials to bounce back and forth between lobbying and public service. Finally, the legislation would establish a code of conduct for Supreme Court Justices. Protect Voting Rights and the Integrity of Elections H.R. 1 would make a series of improvements designed to increase participation and make our elections more democratic. The bill would end “gerrymandering,” partisan redistricting which has allowed political parties to unfairly manipulate the boundaries of House districts. It would also mandate automatic voter registration, early voting, and vote by mail options. The For the People Act would also commit Congress to reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act, which has been gutted by a Supreme Court decision. Finally, the bill would modernize and strengthen our voting systems.
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney voted this evening to end the partial government shutdown, which has left approximately a quarter of federal agencies and departments without funding. The package of bills passed today is modeled directly after measures previously passed by the Senate and refrains from providing any funding for President Donald Trump’s proposed Mexican border wall. “The Trump Tantrum has to come to an end so we can get our federal workers paid and get down to business here in Washington,” said Rep. Maloney. “The Senate was content to get everything funded and talk about the wall later – we’re doing the same thing. The ball is in the president’s court – all he needs to do is support the bill which passed both Houses of Congress with bipartisan support.”
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) was officially sworn into office as a member of the 116th Congress. Today marks the beginning of Rep. Maloney’s fourth term serving as the representative for New York’s 18th Congressional District in the Hudson Valley, and his first term serving as a member of the majority party. Over the next term in Congress, Rep. Maloney will continue his fight to protect health care access while reducing cost, combat the heroin and opioid epidemic, support our veterans, and invest in our infrastructure – especially our access to clean water. From left to right: Megan Durand, Reiniel Florke, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Randy Florke, Sean Patrick Maloney, Daley Maloney Florke, Essie Maloney Florke “It’s an honor to have my contract renewed again to serve the people of the Hudson Valley. As we look forward to the next term, I plan to build on my record of getting things done for folks at home by working across the aisle. First order of business down here is getting the lights back on,” said Maloney. “It’s time to move on from this wall fight and get something serious done on border security and immigration. The Trump Tantrum needs to end so we can work out real solutions on issues like health care, infrastructure, and the heroin and opioid crisis.” Rep. Maloney was joined for the swearing in ceremony by his husband, Randy Florke their three children, and their son’s girlfriend.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after President Donald Trump shut down roughly a quarter of federal agencies, including: the departments of Homeland Security, Commerce, State, Justice, and the Interior. “Republicans in the Senate and Democrats in the House were collaborating on bipartisan measures to avoid a shut down. Only the President — by his own admission — wanted this crisis. We can protect the border and keep the government open at the same time. The Trump Tantrum has to stop – we have a job to do for the people we represent. As I have in the past, I will instruct the House administration office to withhold my pay during any government shutdown. Congress should not get paid until it does its job.”
12.21.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released his 2018 End-of-Term report, which highlights his legislative work, constituent services, and district events since joining Congress in 2013. Despite Washington gridlock, Rep. Maloney worked across the aisle to pass over 30 pieces of legislation into law, help thousands of constituents, and bring millions of dollars in federal funding to communities from Poughkeepsie to Port Jervis. “We’ve gotten an incredible amount done by working across the aisle and staying focused on what matters – delivering for the people I represent,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s an honor to have my contract renewed for another two years, and I believe I can do even more for my friends and neighbors in the next Congress.” Rep. Maloney passed six bills he introduced into law this Congress, building on his record of success in his first two terms. He also successfully fought to kill the proposal to install ten new anchorage sites in the Hudson River, held an additional 24 in-person town halls, and secured millions of dollars in federal investments for local organizations. Some other highlights from the report include: Passed 45 pieces of legislation through the House of Representatives, including 31 signed into law Returned $18 million to taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks and tax refunds, including over $8 million in veterans benefits Helped over 6,000 people with cases involving Social Security, Medicare, the IRS, and the Veterans Administration, including over 1,700 veterans Killed the anchorages proposal, which would have turned the Hudson River into a parking lot for over 40 oil barges Hosted over 80 “Speak with Sean” in-person town halls and neighborhood office hours Secured 220 service medals including Congressional Gold Medals, Legions of Merit, Bronze Stars, and Purple Hearts Held over 30 telephone and online town halls Introduced over 100 pieces of legislation and amendments and cosponsored over 1,000 bills 96% vote attendance record Hosted dozens of events, including over two dozen veterans’ medal ceremonies and jobs & resource fairs, over a dozen small and local business tours, law enforcement resources forum, EPA Superfund tour with Judith Enck, two anti-bullying summits, human trafficking workshop, and many more The full report is available here.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) supported today’s passage of the Formerly Incarcerated Reenter Society Transformed Safely Transitioning Every Person Act or FIRST STEP Act. The bill is the most sweeping federal criminal justice legislation passed in the last two decades. The bill will improve reentry services to prevent recidivism, reduce mandatory minimum sentences, cut penalties under the “three strikes” law, and establish “good time” credits to allow more inmates to reenter society. “This isn’t going to solve all of the problems in our criminal justice system, but it’s a great start to tackling the problem of mass incarceration,” said Rep. Maloney. “For too long, our broken system has locked people up and thrown away the key – and it’s disproportionately hurt communities of color. We need to get people ready for life after incarceration and address mandatory minimums that too often target low-income communities. This bill does just that. “Moving forward, we should focus on the front-end of our criminal justice system. I’d like to get rid of cash bail, which really just punishes people for not having a lot of money. I think we also need to pass a few bills I introduced which will divert people with addictions to treatment rather than just locking them up and guarantee minors and people living in poverty get fair legal counsel.” The FIRST STEP Act makes a series of reforms to our criminal justice system to give offenders better opportunities to reenter society sooner. The bill would reduce mandatory minimum sentencing from life in prison to 25 years in some cases. The bill also makes significant investments in – and expands incentives for – reentry programs which help formerly incarcerated people readjust to life outside of prison. It would also retroactively apply 2010 sentencing reform which aligned penalties for crack cocaine with those for powder cocaine, which had long been regarded as an attack on low-income communities and communities of color. FIRST STEP also expands “good time credits” to give inmates who exhibit good behavior while in prison opportunities to leave prison earlier. Rep. Maloney has been a leader on criminal justice reform issues, focusing specifically on preventing incarceration based on addiction, poverty, or inadequate legal counsel. In 2017, he reintroduced his Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act, which would create a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program to fund pre-booking drug diversion programs, which give law enforcement the option of diverting individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them. He also introduced the Equal Justice Under Law Act and Gideon Act alongside New Jersey Senator Cory Booker. The Equal Justice Under Law Act would empower indigent criminal defendants to take action against states and localities that systematically fail to provide effective assistance of counsel in felony cases. The Gideon Act would establish a federal corporation dedicated to delivering independent, uniform, and quality defense representation in criminal cases before the United States Supreme Court and, at times, in the highest courts in the states.
12.19.2018	Recent Testing Proves PCB Contamination Still Above Safe Levels, Shows Evidence of Re-Contamination of Dredged Sites WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) led a coalition of New York members of Congress in a letter demanding that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) withhold its final Certificate of Completion to General Electric for its cleanup of Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in the Hudson River. The officials and relevant stakeholder groups are concerned that the EPA will soon grant GE a Certificate of Completion for the cleanup project, absolving the company of responsibility for future cleanup efforts, even though work to date fails to protect human health and the environment. A recent study found that areas that were previously dredged by GE were re-contaminated by upstream PCBs in un-dredged areas “GE is not done cleaning up the mess they made and the EPA had better not let them off the hook for this,” said Rep. Maloney. “Issuing a Certificate of Completion at this stage would be bad for everyone except GE – taxpayers would be on the line for future cleanup costs, environmental quality would continue to suffer, and economic development opportunities along the river would be in jeopardy. GE polluted the river and they have to clean it up – it’s that simple. We will not accept anything less than remediation to safe levels." “The Hudson River PCBs cleanup has been woefully less effective than we were promised, and General Electric’s cleanup of the toxic PCBs it dumped in the river must continue. Those that fish on the river and the wildlife that live in it are still in danger. New Yorkers need real action from the EPA, not a free pass for an incomplete cleanup,” said Riverkeeper President Paul Gallay. “Meanwhile, we thank Congressman Maloney and members of the New York congressional delegation for their leadership in urging the EPA not to issue GE a certification of completion before the job is done." “Thanks to Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney and his colleagues in New York’s Congressional delegation for demanding that the Environmental Protection Agency hold off on issuing General Electric a Certificate of Completion until it actually completes a PCB cleanup that makes the river safe for humans and wildlife. EPA not only has the authority to withhold the Certificate of Completion, but can order GE to take additional cleanup action. People should be able to enjoy the Hudson without fearing for their health. They should be able to eat the fish, swim, drink the water and find jobs along its banks. EPA can bring these back, if it does the right thing—admit that the cleanup has not achieved its goals and hold GE accountable. Scenic Hudson is grateful for Congressman Maloney’s continuing leadership in Washington to ensure EPA works with the Cuomo Administration in achieving a healthy Hudson,” said Scenic Hudson President Ned Sullivan. “PCB contamination of the upper Hudson and its banks is a major obstacle to job creation - for marine transport and entrepreneurs trying to site 21st Century companies along the River and an endangerment to public health, safety and even drinking water supplies,” said Pete Bardunias, President/CEO of the Chamber Southern Saratoga County. “We are working to clean the historic Old Champlain Canal as well as the River itself. As Congressman Maloney has pointed out, issuance of a Certificate of Completion and application of a contrived “will be protective” standard by the EPA would likely set these goals back for generations, and ensure economic limbo persists in numerous Riverfront communities. Recent conversations with the EPA indicate that Region 2 Administrator, Peter Lopez, has discussed issuing a Certificate of Completion imminently. New York lawmakers and other local groups are concerned that the EPA is preparing to issue this certificate even though recent testing has found GE’s efforts to remove PCB contamination are not protective of human health and the environment. The original Consent Decree between GE and the EPA requires remediation that meets those primary goals. Hudson Valley environmental group Scenic Hudson recently commissioned the testing of sediment samples taken by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) in 2017 and found that areas which GE had already dredged had been re-contaminated by PCBs in sediment from un-dredged areas. Rep. Maloney is joined by five fellow members of Congress representing districts adjacent to the Hudson River, including: Rep. Nita Lowey (NY-17), Rep. Jerry Nadler (NY-10), Rep. Eliot Engel (NY-16), Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), and Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-21). Rep. Maloney has been a leader in the fight to rid the Hudson River of PCB contamination. In 2016, he joined NYS DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos and environmental groups to encourage the EPA to ensure a remedy that results in the long-term cleanup of the Hudson River. This announcement came after a meeting Rep. Maloney helped to convene in July between Scenic Hudson and DEC Commissioner Seggos. Rep. Maloney also joined former Assemblyman Frank Skartados, Mayor Rob Rolison, and local stakeholders in Poughkeepsie to outline concerns about the effectiveness of the current cleanup strategy. Just last year, Rep. Maloney joined Senator Gillibrand and Reps. Tonko, Lowey and Engel to send a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling on Administrator Scott Pruitt to incorporate data provided to the EPA as part of its Second Five-Year Review showing the continued presence of PCB contaminants in the Hudson River. The members cited the Second Five-Year Review as an opportunity to provide for additional cleanup of the Hudson River. The text of the letter is below and a copy of the original is available here. Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler, As your office completes its analysis of the current phase of the Hudson River PCB dredging project, we urge you to find that the project is not protective of human health and the environment, and that a Certificate of Completion for the General Electric Company’s work at the site is not warranted at this time. Furthermore, we ask that the EPA work closely with New York State and other stakeholders to achieve the goals of the project’s remedial program. Communities have endured the long-term effects of contamination for generations and as a result experienced the loss of many water-dependent economic and community activities. It had been expected that completing dredging operations would allow communities along the river to jump-start long delayed economic development opportunities as well as eventually resume unfettered commercial shipping and the Hudson’s once-profitable fishing industry. Recent data from sediment and fish samples taken by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) clearly demonstrate that PCB levels in Hudson River fish are above the benchmarks your own agency established for the cleanup. Furthermore, the DEC data builds a convincing argument that contaminated sediments in the upper Hudson are re-contaminating areas of the river that were previously dredged. The loss of economic potential for commercial revitalization has hurt local governments for nearly 50 years, and the Hudson River remaining a Superfund Site will mean these industries will not recover for many more decades. Continuing to live with this legacy of pollution and its impact on achieving waterfront community and economic development is not an acceptable path forward. Leaving such a large amount of polluted sediment behind will delay the river’s full recovery by decades, limit future restoration opportunities, restrict deep-draft shipping in the river and Champlain Canal, and prevent communities from making long-term economic redevelopment plans. We are deeply concerned that your agency may soon issue General Electric a Certificate of Completion for the dredging project. Issuance of a Certificate of Completion could release General Electric from liability for its contamination of the Upper Hudson, and make it unlikely we will ever get a complete cleanup of the river. We urge you to exercise your discretion to compel General Electric to conduct additional cleanup now, prior to issuing the Certificate. EPA is currently in possession of “previously unknown information,” including DEC’s 2017 sediment sampling data, annual fish sampling data, NOAA’s fish recovery modeling projections and fish consumption surveys that indicate the remedy is “not protective of human health and the environment.” Therefore, pursuant to the Consent Decree between EPA and General Electric, you may compel the company to perform additional cleanup. There is no benefit to issuing a Certificate of Completion at this time. Issuing the Certificate comes with great risk, since General Electric could escape liability for any future cleanup on the Upper Hudson. On the other hand, if EPA does not issue a Certificate until it can find the cleanup fully protective of human health and the environment, nothing is lost. General Electric is very unlikely to take any action to try to force EPA to issue the certificate. In fact, the company has been awaiting the Certificate of Completion for OU1 of the Hudson River remedy (the Remnant Deposit sites) since construction of that remedy was completed in 1992. General Electric annually requests that EPA issue it a Certificate of Completion for this remedy, but EPA has continued to deny its request for 26 years. It would be unconscionable for EPA to surrender its ability to order additional cleanup action in the face of mounting information indicating that the goals of the cleanup have not been reached and more cleanup is needed. The communities and businesses in our districts situated along the Hudson River that have endured decades of toxic pollution and suffered from the loss of water-based industries deserve better. For all of these reasons, it is critical that your agency not issue a Certificate of Completion for the Hudson River Superfund Cleanup, and state unequivocally in its Second Five Year Review that the Superfund cleanup “is not protective of human health and the environment.” Persistent PCB contamination in the Hudson River is a threat to public health and a significant obstacle to the economic development goals that we are working so hard to achieve. This situation must be addressed, and your decision must clearly indicate a path forward for the EPA and DEC to collaborate and address these needs. We recognize and appreciate that the decision you are preparing to make will leave a lasting impact on hundreds of municipalities and millions of people along its banks. It is of the utmost importance that your decisions recognize the recent data and analysis of New York State, and create a path forward for the communities and citizens that live and work along the river to achieve their goals.
12.17.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a $1,999,614 investment from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for Access: Supports for Living, Inc. (ASFL) in Orange County. The investment, funded through HHS’ Center for Mental Health Services and Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, will help promote the treatment of mental and behavioral health for 12,000 people in the Hudson Valley. Access: Supports for Living is in the process of being certified as a Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinic (CCBHC), an organization designed to streamline and improve the way that states deliver behavioral health services for Medicaid beneficiaries. “Orange County has the highest opioid overdose death rate in the State of New York – we need all the help we can get to fight addiction and other mental health issues that are hurting our communities,” said Rep. Maloney. “This investment will ensure literally thousands of people get the help they need to get healthy again.” “The team at Access: Supports for Living is thrilled to receive this award that will substantially increase access to mental health and substance abuse services for community members when they need it, close to home,” said Amy Anderson-Winchell, LCSW, President and CEO of Access: Supports for Living. “The integrated model, which includes the collaborative work of providers across Orange County, will eliminate existing gaps in behavioral health care, helping fight the opioid crisis, and promote recovery and wellness for more than 12,000 people in the Hudson Valley. We thank Congressman Maloney for his steadfast support of behavioral health treatment providers and the people we serve in the Hudson Valley.” Access: Supports For Living will, collaboratively with other providers in the community, use the funding to directly support adults and children seeking behavioral health services in Orange County. Originally founded in 1963, Access has grown to a more than $90 million non-profit serving over 10,000 people each year across the Hudson Valley. Services include behavioral health care, support for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, and support for families and children with a range of needs, including interaction with the child welfare system. CCBHCs have shown tremendous results in improving access to mental and behavioral health treatment and addiction treatment. By providing a comprehensive range of mental health services to vulnerable individuals regardless of their ability to pay or location of residence, CCBHCs significantly improve the quality of community mental health and addiction services. Rep. Maloney has been a leader on protecting public health and promoting mental health awareness and treatment in the Hudson Valley. Since taking office, he has brought home more than $1 million in funding to support local treatment and health centers. He’s also authored several pieces of legislation to this end, including the Opioid Review Modernization Act, and introduced bills that would revamp our criminal justice system for low-level offenders and help get critical antidotes to community members of the frontlines of the opioid epidemic.
12.14.2018	New Hampton, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined local agriculture and hunger experts to discuss victories in the 2018 Farm Bill for the Hudson Valley. Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, successfully fought attempts by a small group of Republicans to make deep cuts to important programs that support Hudson Valley farmers and residents who rely on federal nutrition assistance. The bill includes provisions from three bills Rep. Maloney authored, fixes broken programs which support our dairy farmers, makes critical improvements to crop insurance, and invests in farmland conservation and agricultural research. “This bill is a huge win for the Hudson Valley – it tailors crop insurance to better fit Hudson Valley farms, improves investments and programming for young and beginning farmers, and makes key investments in farmland conservation and research,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “It also avoids cutting the critical SNAP program and actually fixes an issue I identified which would have prevented folks on SNAP from using their benefits at farmers markets – we got just about everything we wanted and I consider this a total victory.” “I am grateful to have in Congressman Maloney such a strong advocate for our rural communities and I look forward to partnering with him to strengthen and protect New York agriculture,” said Jen Metzger, New York State Senator-Elect and incoming Chair of the State Senate Agriculture Committee. “Included in the Farm Bill are better coverage for our dairy farmers, funds for rural broadband, and new agricultural growth opportunities like industrial hemp, all of which will bring meaningful benefits to New York farmers and help protect our rural culture, our pristine water and environment, and the wellbeing of our communities.” “I’d like to thank Congressman Maloney for his work on this vital bill, which invests in Hudson Valley farmers and provides assistance to those in need,” said State Senator-Elect James Skoufis.“Hudson Valley farmers are essential to our local economy and this legislation will provide necessary resources to help them grow, while supporting our community.” "We are celebrating the remarkable progress that this historically bipartisan farm bill represents,” said Lindsey Lusher Shute, Co-Founder and Executive Director, National Young Farmers Coalition. "Though there is still much work to be done, this bill will enable more young farmers across the country to secure their first farm loan, buy their first parcel of land, and start their first business. The bill will make permanent investments in programs critical to young farmers, improve land access for the next generation of stewards, and create on-ramps for new growers into existing USDA programs. We thank Congressman Maloney, leaders of the House and Senate Agriculture Committees, and every legislator who gave young farmers a seat at the table and fought for this progress.” “The farm bill passed by Congress this week is the right step forward for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), our nation’s most effective anti-hunger program,” said Sherry Tomasky, Director of Communications and Public Affairs for Hunger Solutions New York. “Protecting and strengthening SNAP is key to the future of New York communities, because SNAP helps struggling families afford food and helps keep households out of poverty. We are pleased to see lawmakers rejected proposals to take away food assistance from those in need, and instead passed a bill that protected and improved SNAP. The final farm bill agreement ensures that SNAP will continue to help feed children and their parents, seniors, people with disabilities, and working people with low pay and inconsistent hours who struggle to make ends meet. That includes 1 in 8 people right here in New York.” The Farm Bill is the most comprehensive legislation Congress passes to support our farmers and nutrition assistance programs. Rep. Maloney secured a litany of key priorities for the Hudson Valley in the 2014 version of the Farm Bill, which received broad bipartisan support. The 2014 Farm Bill expired at the end of September because of partisan fighting over a variety of issues. Before the 2018 Farm Bill was passed this week, 39 programs which did not have permanent authorization expired, leaving these programs “orphaned” after the September deadline. Rep. Maloney joined local farmers and agriculture experts in New Hampton in October to highlight the damaging effects of this lapse on the Hudson Valley. Provisions from three bills Rep. Maloney introduced were included in the final conference report. Beginning Farmers Rep. Maloney introduced the Young and Beginning Farmers Act in October of 2017. The bill was designed to help new farmers overcome the common barrier of access to land as well as improve access to critical programs that educate, train and assist young and beginning farmers in starting their career. Four provisions from the bill were included in the final 2018 Farm Bill. These include: Reauthorizing the Beginning Farm Rancher Development Program (BFRDP) which provides grants for education, mentoring, and technical assistance initiatives for beginning farmers or ranchers. The Farm Bill also combines the BFRDP program with the Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers Program to encourage more people to enter the agriculture field. Authorizing “Buy-Protect-Sell” transactions within the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP), in which a land trust purchases vulnerable farmland, protects it with a conservation easement, and then transfers it to a farmer. This is an innovative and critical tool in getting young farmers on the land because, by enabling land trusts to add a conservation easement at the point of sale, it can significantly reduce the total price of the farm and make it accessible to younger producers. Doubling the Direct Loan Limit to make it easier for Beginning Farmers to acquire farmland. The legislation raised the loan limit to $600,000 from the current limit of $300,000, which more accurately reflects farmland prices, especially in states like New York. Establishing State Coordinators to provide local support to future farmers. These coordinators will work with beginning farmers to identify key priority areas and help new farmers connect with apprenticeships and land-link programs. Local FARMS Act Rep. Maloney also introduced the Local Food and Regional Market Supply (FARMS) Act last year to support local farmers and consumers by streamlining key USDA programs and enhancing assistance for farmers and farm organizations as well as helping farmers meet food safety and certification requirements, improving distribution, and expanding farm-to-school programs. The Farm Bill included a critical section of the Local FARMS Act which will establish a new comprehensive and streamlined local and regional food economies development program that merges the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program and Value-Added Producer Grants Program and includes support for farmers markets, farm-to-retail marketing, local food enterprise development, value-chain coordination, food hubs, planning and feasibility studies, producer-owned value-added enterprises, and regional planning through public-private partnerships. Whole Farm Crop Insurance Improvement Act Rep. Maloney introduced legislation to make whole farm crop insurance more accessible and effective for diversified, organic, beginning, and other farmers not adequately served by other risk management options. Hudson Valley farms often grow a variety of different crops, unlike many farms nationally, which grow only a single crop over thousands of acres. This bill was designed to tailor the program to the needs of local farmers in New York. The Farm Bill requires the development of a plan to cover more specialty and value-added crops. It also expands the definition of “beginning farmer and rancher” from a five to ten year qualification window for Whole Farm Revenue Protection. This will allow beginning farmers to qualify for better coverage rates for an extra five years. The bill also directs the Risk Management Agency to research and develop new crop insurance tools that reflect emerging trends in agriculture, including direct-to-consumer marketing. Rep. Maloney also fought to make key improvements to other important program areas: Research – The final Farm Bill will transfer $185 million in funding to the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research (FFAR), a public-private partnership which invests in agriculture research. In the Hudson Valley, an FFAR-funded research project to combat the Allium leafminer is currently underway. The House version would not have added a penny to the program’s funding. Conservation – The conference report does not eliminate the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), the largest farmland conservation program in America. The House version of the bill would have eliminated the program and rolled its mandates into another program, effectively cutting conservation funding by $5 billion. The bill also increases funding for the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) to $450 million per year for all five years of the farm bill and beyond. ACEP funds wetland restoration and farmland protection. SNAP – The House version of the 2018 Farm Bill would have included billions of dollars in cuts to the program when compared with the 2014 version of the bill. The conference report omits those cuts, but does include expanded job-training and employment opportunities for SNAP recipients. The bill also resolves an issue with a payment vendor which processes SNAP transactions at farmers markets. Rep. Maloney wrote to Agriculture Secretary Perdue in July asking for the issue to be resolved. The 2018 Farm Bill will require Perdue to take appropriate action to ensure SNAP recipients can continue to use their benefits at farmers markets. This will allow SNAP recipients to acquire healthy locally-grown food while supporting local farmers. In October 2017, Rep. Maloney met with his Agriculture Advisory Board to plan his priorities for the 2018 Farm Bill. He also met with local hunger experts in February, 2018, as much of the Farm Bill focuses on the provision of nutrition assistance. Although Rep. Maloney opposed the initial House version of the bill in May, he led a final effort on the floor of the House of Representatives to make popular improvements. In June, he opposed a re-vote attempt on an identical version of the bill.
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he would support the Conference Report to the 2018 Farm Bill, which represents a bipartisan compromise on the crucial agriculture legislation rather than the partisan House version he opposed earlier this year. The final legislation includes provisions of bills Rep. Maloney authored and refrains from making massive changes the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as food stamps. Rep. Maloney will hold a press conference on Friday to discuss the bill in greater detail with local agriculture leaders and members of the press. “I’m proud to say that the difference between this bill and the partisan House bill I opposed earlier this year is night and day. I will support the final version of the bill because it maintains the progress we made for the Hudson Valley in the 2014 Farm Bill and even makes improvements in key areas. “I worked to include provisions of my Local FARMS Act, Young and Beginning Farmers Act and the Whole Farm Crop Insurance Improvement Act in the final version of the bill, which will help new farmers get their start in a career in agriculture and support our local food systems. We made important progress on research and conservation funding. And we fixed the broken dairy program, creating a program that will not only provide accessible coverage for dairy farmers but will also refund farmers for premiums paid into the broken old program. “We also kept all the garbage out of the bill. The House-passed bill would have thrown millions of Americans off of the SNAP program including people who currently qualify through LIHEAP – a system that helps low income families heat their homes in the winter and afford food. “Ultimately, the bill keeps the good stuff from 2014 and improves the programs that weren’t working. It’s a good bill and it should become law by the end of the week.” Details on Friday’s press conference are forthcoming.
12.01.2018	Cold Spring, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush. “Like many in his generation, George H.W. Bush embodied such decency that even politics and ambition could not overcome it. He was a good man. He loved his family and his country and worked to keep both safe and sound. His life sets the standard for the character and patriotism essential to true public service. “As we remember him, we take comfort in knowing that he has been reunited with his beloved wife Barbara and is free now from all sickness and pain in the loving arms of our Lord. We pray for his entire family and hold them in our thoughts. We pray too for our country; that we will learn from his example and set a higher standard once again for our politics.”
11.30.2018	In Response to Tragedy, Maloney Authored Three Laws to Improve Rail Safety, Including PTC Provisions WASHINGTON - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement a day in advance of the five-year anniversary of the Metro-North derailment near Spuyten Duyvil in the Bronx. The accident killed four people, including two of Rep. Maloney’s constituents and injured dozens more. The statement also addresses the December 31st deadline for implementation of the positive train control (PTC) rail safety system, which would have prevented the accident. Metro-North, which serves much of the Congressman’s district and operated the train which derailed at Spuyten Duyvil, is expected to receive a two-year extension because it has made significant progress toward bringing the system online. “I knew Jim Lovell who died during the accident and I’m still close with his wife, Nancy. Our kids went to school together and we saw each other around Cold Spring a lot. This was a loss that hit very close to home. I remember being at their house after the accident and that left a big impression on me. The derailment happened at the beginning of my time in Congress, and that experience informed my priorities as a representative of the people who had just lost their loved ones. “Since the accident, Metro-North has taken this issue seriously and obtained federal funding I fought to make available through the RRIF program. Obviously, I would like to see 100% implementation by the end of the year, but Metro-North has made important progress and should qualify for a two-year extension. “This is the end of the line though, as far as I’m concerned – we’re not going to hand out any more extensions. Metro-North needs to get this done within that two-year window. Clock’s ticking.” Rep. Maloney is a national leader on rail safety, including the implementation of PTC technology. In 2015, he worked to pass the Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act through the House of Representatives. The legislation would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) successfully applied for nearly $1 billion in RRIF funding to facilitate the implementation of PTC technology on Metro-North in 2015, after Rep. Maloney’s legislation passed. Rep. Maloney also worked to pass the Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 into law. The bill requires passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify high-hazard curves, like those involved in the Spuyten Duyvil, Philadelphia, and Washington State train derailments, and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installing of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication. He also worked to pass legislation through the House, which the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) voluntarily adopted, which required a progress report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees on the status of railroad compliance with the Positive Train Control (PTC) requirement. Earlier this year, Rep. Maloney grilled federal officials on the status of implementation and introduced legislation to preclude any extensions for implementation beyond the 2018 deadline.
11.01.2018	New Windsor, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) presented Washingtonville resident, Army Specialist Paul DeRogatis with a Purple Heart days before his 70th birthday, after the veteran spent decades working to obtain a replacement for his original medal. Mr. DeRogatis’ original Purple Heart was lost during the veteran’s transfer from a U.S. Army medical facility in Japan to Walter Reed Hospital while he was incapacitated and in a body cast. “Veterans who were wounded while honorably serving their country shouldn’t have to wait decades to get the awards and benefits they earned, but I’m glad this story ends with Mr. DeRogatis getting his Purple Heart,” said Rep. Maloney. “This is what I get paid to do – serving our veterans is one of the most important and rewarding parts of my job, and I hope any veteran in the Hudson Valley who needs a hand getting their awards or benefits will give us a call.” “I would first like to thank my friend Louis Testa for saving my life in Vietnam. Unfortunately, he is no longer here due to his long battle with cancer. I’d also like to thank my wife, my son, my two daughters and my friends who never gave up on me,” said Army Specialist Paul DeRogatis. “Thank you Senator Larkin for your help in forwarding my file to Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney who took the time to review and investigate my records and to his Assistant Cullen Lyons. Thank you Congressman Maloney for all that you have done for me and for all the other Veterans that you have helped.” “Today, Congressman Maloney reissued Mr. DeRogatis his Purple Heart Medal. Mr. DeRogatis was injured by enemy fire during his service in Vietnam in 1969,” said John Hussey, President of Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board. “The Purple Heart Medal is one of the most distinguished awards in the US Military. It demonstrates that the recipient was literally wounded by the enemy. In this case, Mr. DeRogatis “spilt his blood” in service to his nation. Today, we as Americans, are proud of Mr. DeRogatis and recognize his service to the United States. We are pleased that his family, friends, and neighbors had to opportunity to see him receive such a prestigious award from Congressman Maloney.” Statement from the National Purple Hall of Honor: “The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor’s mission is to collect, preserve and share the stories of Purple Heart recipients. Providing the venue for Purple Heart award ceremonies is consistent with that mission as the award represents the formal recognition of the sacrifice made by the recipient. The Hall of Honor was pleased to be able to provide this opportunity for Vietnam veteran Paul DeRogatis.” Mr. DeRogatis and his wife have spent over 40 years working to recover a replacement medal, but found little success until they were put in contact with Rep. Maloney’s office in September. Rep. Maloney’s veterans’ advocacy team contacted the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) and successfully worked to locate the documents that prove Mr. DeRogatis was wounded while serving his country in Vietnam. In addition to recovering the medal, Rep. Maloney’s office is actively working with Mr. DeRogatis and the department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to ensure that he is receiving all the benefits that are owed to him. Mr. DeRogatis was injured at the beginning of April 1969 in Vietnam when his base was mortared by the enemy. During the attack, Mr. DeRogatis’ friend Lou Testa, left the protection of his bunker to find Mr. DeRogatis laying on the ground unable to move and severely bleeding from his leg. Lou then dragged his friend back to the safety of the bunker where they stopped the bleeding. At the conclusion of the attack, Mr. DeRogatis was evacuated to Japan, where he was put in a body cast and awarded the Purple Heart. Three days later, he was informed he would be sent to Walter Reed Hospital to recover. During the transfer, all of Mr. DeRogatis’ belongings were put into a box, including the Purple Heart. Upon arriving at Walter Reed, Mr. DeRogatis discovered that several items were missing from the box, including his Purple Heart. After being discharged from Walter Reed and the Army, Mr. DeRogatis continued to suffer from a leg injury and was unable to return to work in the civilian world. The DeRogatis family moved from their original home in Brooklyn to Washingtonville in 1995, and have lived there ever since. For years, Mr. DeRogatis and his wife searched for records showing proof that Mr. DeRogatis received the Purple Heart for the injuries he sustained in Vietnam. In September, Mr. and Mrs. DeRogatis were referred to Rep. Maloney’s office and received assistance in obtaining a replacement medal. Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has obtained over 220 medals and awards owed to veterans for their service to their country. His office has also assisted over 1,700 veteran and military families and returned over $8 million in earned benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Rep. Maloney has also worked to pass nine bills into law to benefit our veterans. These bills cut-down on wait times at the VA, help our veterans find good-paying jobs, and ensure active duty service members enjoy the same level of protection from predatory debt collectors as their civilian counterparts. Rep. Maloney has introduced legislation which would honor the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor with a commemorative coin provided by the U.S. Mint. Proceeds from this program would benefit the Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. for projects and programs at that help preserve the memory and sacrifices of our service men and women who were wounded or killed in combat. The Hall of Honor is located in Rep. Maloney’s district in New Windsor, NY, where George Washington first founded the Purple Heart medal in 1782.
11.01.2018	Cold Spring, NY – Only days after a deadly shooting at Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh left nearly a dozen dead and more seriously injured, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in support of a Jewish family who was attacked with anti-Semitic graffiti at the construction site of their new Cold Spring home. Cold Spring residents, including Rep. Maloney, were shocked to find hate speech and swastikas written in graffiti on the home. “Cold Spring is our home, and we won’t let the hateful actions of one or more cowards intimidate our friends, or our kids, or our community. Especially after last week’s shooting, we owe it to each other to stand together against this kind of bigotry and anti-Semitism. “This took place within eyesight of my kids’ school, where good people from all walks of life bring our kids to learn tolerance and respect. Hate has no home in Cold Spring, and the light of good people coming together will expose it. “We will find the person or persons who did this, and they will be brought to swift justice. If you have any information about this crime, please contact the sheriff’s department or your local law enforcement agency. The sooner this criminal is caught, the better.”
10.30.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined local health care and addiction recovery experts at Cornerstone Family Healthcare in Newburgh to outline dozens of new and reformed programs designed to target heroin and opioid abuse established by the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which was signed into law last week. The new law authorizes programs focused on prevention and treatment, in addition to efforts to support law enforcement, first responders, and to secure the border. “There is no silver bullet solution to stopping the heroin and opioid crisis that’s devastating families and communities here in the Hudson Valley – it’s going to take a comprehensive approach that focuses on prevention, treatment, and law enforcement efforts to stop it – and that’s just what this new law does,” said Rep. Maloney. “The one thing it doesn’t do is provide the level of federal funding we need to stop this deadly crisis. Our head is in the right place with this bill, we just need to put more muscle behind it. We’re spending almost five times more on another critical public health crisis – HIV/AIDS as we are on the heroin and opioid crisis – we need to treat both threats to our public health with the urgency they require.” “Like any public health crisis, the heroin and opioid epidemic requires a public health response, including robust federal funding,” said Linda Muller, President and CEO, Cornerstone Family Healthcare. “I want to thank the congressman for working across the aisle to make sure we’re investing in our community health centers, including in the Medication-Assisted Treatment programs which are so crucial for combating this problem." “Each of us know someone who has been tragically affected by the opioid epidemic. As it continues to ravage our communities seemingly unabated, we must come together to provide far reaching and innovative programming which will provide the best chances of recovery,” said Michele McKeon, Chief Operating Officer of the Regional Economic Community Action Program. “This legislation will allow community based organizations, like RECAP, more opportunities and strategies to provide support and services to those affected by substance use disorder. We thank Congressman Maloney for once again placing his community above partisan politics and working across the aisle to literally save lives.” “Certainly, any legislation that increases the access and affordability of needed treatment services and seeks to prevent and reduce access to licit and illicit substances is a good thing,” said James Conklin, Executive Director, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Council of Orange County. “Passing legislation is step one in a process now the responsibility lies with everyone in the community of providers and advocates to ensure that these changes indeed have a positive impact on members of the community who need them. Federal Program Funding and New Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act reauthorizes $500 million in federal funding for treatment programs originally established under the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA) in 2016. Rep. Maloney cosponsored CARA and successfully included his legislation, the Opioid Review Modernization Act, in the final bill. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act mandates the creation of a grant program to fund at least ten Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers across the country, which will emphasize the Extension for Community Health Outcomes (ECHO) model, which closely involves health care providers in the treatment of addictions. Reforms to Medicaid and Medicare The bill also provides key reforms to federal health care programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Medicaid is a critical tool in the fight against addiction, but existing restrictions on the use of these funds precludes the program from maximizing its contribution to local residential treatment centers. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act curtails a technical rule called the “IMD Exclusion,” which prevents Medicaid dollars from going to residential treatment facilities with more than 16 beds. Historically, that has prevented residential treatment facilities, like New Life Manor, operated by Hudson Valley RECAP, from accessing federal Medicaid dollars for in-patient treatment. The new law also allows the use of Medicare funds to provide Medication-Assisted Treatment to patients who are struggling with substance abuse. Support for Law Enforcement The bill supports law enforcement by expanding access to overdose-reversing antidotes, like Narcan, for first responders. The bill also mandates the expansion of information-sharing between the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) and local law enforcement agencies. It also cracks down on drug trafficking across the border and through the mail by expanding access to cutting-edge tools for law enforcement. Finally, the new law also expands penalties for drug manufacturers and distributors who overprescribe opioids. Approximately 72,000 Americans died last year of drug overdoses, two-thirds of which were linked to opioids. Additionally, Orange County in Rep. Maloney’s 18th Congressional District experiences the highest overdose death rate in the State of New York.
10.27.2018	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the deadly shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, PA. "My heart is with the Tree of Life Congregation in Pittsburgh and the police officers who were shot while protecting the innocent. Our country has got to come together to solve this problem - the gun violence has to end. It's robbing too many of us of our loved ones." "This shooting is a reminder that even our places of worship aren't as safe as they should be. Even after the shootings in Charleston and Sutherland Springs, we've not done enough to combat this problem. People should be able to worship freely – or go to any public space – without feeling unsafe.”
10.25.2018	New Hampton, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined local and national experts on key agriculture programs at Soons Orchard in New Hampton to discuss the harmful effects of Congress’s failure to pass the 2018 Farm Bill. Nearly 40 key programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) expired at the end of September when Congress left town without passing the bill, including programs designed to help young and beginning farmers, promote locally-grown foods, and help farmers branch out into value-added production. Local farmers and agriculture nonprofits have received hundreds of thousands of dollars in federal investments through the “orphan” programs in recent years, and without further action from Congress, future grants funded through those programs will come to a halt. “We had a good result in the Farm Bill in 2014 – the best ever written for the Hudson Valley – unfortunately, the current Farm Bill in the House is not great for farmers in our part of the world, and because of partisanship in Washington, we’ve not gotten anything passed yet,” said Rep. Maloney. “It expired on September 30th – and now we have programs in jeopardy that directly help farmers in the Hudson Valley.” "Glynwood relies on the support of the programs funded through the now expired Farm Bill to train the next generation of sustainable farmers in the Hudson Valley and promote a regenerative regional farming economy," said Liz Corio, Glynwood's VP of Development and Administration. "Thanks to Congressman Maloney's staunch advocacy for small farmers our region got a great farm bill in 2014, and I know he will do all he can to ensure Congress delivers great a Farm Bill, once again," “Though farmers over the age of 65 outnumber farmers under 35 by a ratio of 6:1, there is a growing movement of young farmers entering the field, getting trained, and starting new farm businesses in the rural communities that need them,” said Jessica Manly, Communications Manager, National Young Farmers Coalition. “They’re entrepreneurial and tough, but they can’t do it alone. In this critical time and facing the worst agricultural economy since the 1980s, they need and expect Congress to have their backs and do its job: by passing a new farm bill.” The Farm Bill is due to be reauthorized in 2018, but this year’s deliberations have been derailed by partisanship in the House of Representatives. Republican leadership called the Congress out for recess without passing a final bill, leaving 39 key programs with expiring authorization without funding. One of the most important programs to the Hudson Valley is the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program. The BFRDP is designed to address issues associated with the rising age and declining number of U.S. farmers and ranchers. Last year, USDA awarded a local organization, Glynwood Farms, with a $400,000 investment through the BFRDP. Rep. Maloney introduced legislation in 2016 and 2017 to reauthorize the program after meeting with farmers at Soons Orchards and partnering with the National Young Farmers Coalition. Just last month, Rep Maloney announced an investment through another key program whose funding is in jeopardy because of congressional inaction – the Value-Added Producer Grant program, which helps agricultural producers enter into value-added activities related to the processing and/or marketing of new products. Last month’s VAPG investment of $250,000 will allow Minkus Farms in New Hampton to promote their new local-label products, contract with larger regional food retailers, and hire three new employees. Another key “orphan” program which is important to Hudson Valley farmers and at risk because of partisanship in the House of Representatives is the Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP), which helps to increase domestic consumption of locally and regionally produced agricultural products, and to develop new market opportunities for farm and ranch operations serving local markets. In 2016, Rep. Maloney announced a $250,000 FMPP investment to allow Glynwood to develop educational and promotional activities to increase local food sales, and in 2014, he announced another FMPP investment of $100,000 to expand and promote local farmers' markets in Orange County.
10.18.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he has secured a federal investment of $325,000 from the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA’s) National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) to assist researchers combatting the Allium leafminer, an invasive species of pest which threatens Orange County’s multimillion dollar onion industry. Rep. Maloney formally requested a federal investment through the Crop Protection and Pest Management (CPPM) Program in April to support a research project led by Professors Dr. Brian Nault (Cornell University) and Dr. Shelby Fleischer (Penn State University). “Hudson Valley farmers are having a tough growing season already – the weather has been crazy, commodity prices are down, and we’re looking down the barrel of a trade war – the last thing our farmers need is to take a hit from some invasive species,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud to work alongside our local farmers and researchers to secure this important funding to protect their livelihoods and our local economy – this is exactly why I fought to protect funding for research in the 2018 Farm Bill – we’re going to see its impact right here in the Hudson Valley.” “Allium leafminer continues to spread across the Hudson Valley and it can be a devastating pest for onion, garlic and leek growers. Research on how to prevent its damage and slow down its spread is desperately needed and the USDA funding that Rep. Maloney helped us obtain will allow us to achieve that goal,” said Dr. Nault. “We have a great team of researchers and extension educators at Cornell and Penn State who will be working together on this 2-year project.” The Allium leafminer is an invasive species of insect which destroys the foliage and lower portions of onions, leeks, garlic, chives, shallots, and green onions. The first pests were discovered in Orange County in April of 2017. Local agriculture experts warn that the insect could inflict major damage on the Orange County onion crop, but more research is necessary to determine how growers can protect these crops from the pest. Orange County produces half of New York State’s onion crop, generates $25 million in annual sales, and employs hundreds of residents. Dr. Nault and fellow Cornell Cooperative Extension educators Ethan Grundberg and Teresa Rusinek have partnered with researchers at Penn State University on a new project entitled “Solutions for managing Allium leafminer: a new invasive threat to Allium crops in North America.” The project aims to identify potential solutions to managing the leafminer in New York and surrounding states. The group of researchers applied for federal funding through NIFA’s CPPM program this Spring with Rep. Maloney’s support. Last October, Rep. Maloney announced that he had secured a total of $130,000 in investments from the New York State Farm Viability Institute (NYFVI) and Federal Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research (FFAR) to combat the pest. Rep. Maloney met with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue in May 2017 to secure his commitment to assisting Hudson Valley farmers in their fight on the leafminer and also joined local leaders to call for federal investments. The CPPM program, administered through NIFA, supports projects that will increase food security and respond effectively to other major societal challenges with comprehensive integrated pest management (IPM) approaches that are economically viable, ecologically prudent, and safe for human health. The CPPM program addresses pest management challenges with new and emerging technologies and the outcomes support more vital communities.
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that his Dam Safety Reauthorization Act passed its final legislative hurdle today and will head to the president’s desk to be signed into law. The provision reauthorizes the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP) through 2024, and includes a variety of initiatives to protect Hudson Valley residents from over 100 “high hazard” dams in the area. “With all of the intense hurricanes we’ve been seeing across the country, we need to be doing everything we can to protect our people and local businesses from potential flooding – that’s exactly what this bill does,” said Rep. Maloney. “The NDSP is one of the most important programs to places like the Hudson Valley, where we’ve got almost 100 dams that could cause loss of life or huge economic damages if they break – this is stuff we have to take seriously, and my legislation will make sure we do.” The legislation originally passed the House of Representatives in June as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), and was included in the final conference report for a larger package of bills which passed the Senate today and will head to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Rep. Maloney introduced and worked to pass similar legislation into law in 2014. That legislation authorized the program through 2019, but to prevent a potential future lapse in funding, he introduced the Dam Safety Reauthorization Act to push the deadline to 2024. Rep. Maloney also wrote a letter to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-IL) requesting that the committee include a “clean” dam safety reauthorization in the base text of the 2018 version of WRRDA to prevent a lapse in authorization for the program. That clean version was ultimately included in the bill. Nearly 100 of the Hudson Valley’s 800 dams are designated as “high hazard,” meaning their failure would result in the loss of life and serious economic damage to the surrounding community. To combat this problem, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) operates the NDSP, which provides support to states like New York in developing Emergency Action Plans (EAPs), public awareness campaigns, the implementation of existing dam safety programs, the purchase of equipment, and dam safety inspections. Last week, Rep. Maloney announced that two more of his legislative provisions would be signed into law. The first provision requires FEMA to investigate a questionable contractor, Florida-based Bronze Star, which failed to deliver $30 million worth of supplies during Hurricane Maria. The second provision requires airlines to upgrade the contents of emergency medical kits, which have not been updated for nearly 20 years, to include appropriately-sized doses of medication for children. Rep. Maloney worked to pass a total of three legislative provisions through the House this summer. In addition to the Dam Safety Reauthorization Act, Rep. Maloney’s Stop Online Opioid Sales Act and Know Your Vets Act each passed the House as parts of larger legislative packages. The Stop Online Opioid Sales Act would require the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to compile and issue an annual report on online drug sales, and the Know Your Vets Act would help bridge the gap between services provided for active duty servicemembers at the Department of Defense (DoD) and those provided to veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
10.09.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced a $999,985 U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investment for the Dutchess County Health Department to combat the opioid epidemic. The investment, made by the DOJ’s Office of Justice Programs, works to increase the sharing of information between local and state agencies on substance abuse issues and leverage possible solutions to tackle this epidemic from public health, treatment, and safety perspectives. Rep. Maloney has been a leader on combatting the opioid epidemic. He has now brought over $3 million in federal investments to the Hudson Valley and also passed legislation in Congress that works to end this epidemic. In June, Rep. Maloney wrote to the DOJ in support of the Dutchess County Health Department’s grant application. “Talk to anybody and they’ll tell you the same thing – families are losing their kids because of addiction to opioids, and it has to stop,” said Rep. Maloney. “The best way to do that is to get the smartest, best-equipped people to put their heads together and get the answers and solutions we need. That’s exactly what this federal investment will help do.” “The opioid epidemic is the public health crisis of our lifetime and Dutchess County has implemented numerous steps to share data about opioid use with our community partners,” said Dr. Anil Vaidian, Dutchess County Commissioner of Behavioral & Community Health. “This grant complements the Department’s current efforts on overdose research and is an exciting opportunity for Dutchess County to enhance our shared understanding of addiction to prevent overdose and other drug-use associated harms. We thank Rep. Maloney for his support and the DOJ for recognizing our resolve and bolstering our efforts, and we look forward to future collaborations that will save Dutchess County lives.” “The NY/NJ HIDTA is a federal grant program that invests in partnerships to achieve our common North Star — to reduce overdoses and save lives,” said Chauncey Parker, Director of the New York/ New Jersey High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area. “Thanks to the tremendous leadership and support of Congressman Maloney and our great public safety and public health partnerships, Dutchess County is one of our best investments. We are very grateful to the Department of Justice for this grant to the Dutchess County Health Department. This grant will provide critical resources to build upon our efforts to combat the opioid epidemic in Dutchess County.” This investment is awarded through the DOJ’s Public Safety and Public Health Information-Sharing Partnership program, which supports public safety, behavioral health, and public health information-sharing partnerships. The primary focus is to help local and state agencies leverage information from a variety of public health and public safety data sources to analyze substance abuse issues and identify potential solutions from public health, treatment, and public safety perspectives. Rep. Maloney continues to fight for Hudson Valley families affected by this epidemic. He successfully passed the Opioid Review and Modernization Act, which helps educate well-meaning doctors about the potential dangers of over-prescribing and was a co-sponsor to the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), passed into law in March of 2016, which helps communities facing prescription drug epidemics to expand prevention and education efforts, increase the availability of antidotes, and promote treatment and recovery. He has also introduced several pieces of legislation including the Lifesaving Librarians Act, the Stop Online Opioid Sales Act, the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act, and the Opioid Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act. In June of this year, Rep. Maloney to the Department of Justice in support of the Dutchess County Department of Health’s grant application. A full copy of that letter can be found below or online here. I write in support of the application submitted by Dutchess County to the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Site-based Program. As you may know, Dutchess County has one of the highest overdose rates in New York. Since the opioid epidemic started, Dutchess has been at the forefront of addiction and recovery services. To that end, Dutchess has developed a collaborative model for change with the support of a wide range of public and private partners. As such, the County is poised to more fully realize an already expansive collaborative platform than can leverage a multi-sector partnership for the implementation of a wide range of strategic initiatives to reduce opioid-related fatalities. Award of this application would allow Dutchess County to expand its already impressive cohort of multidisciplinary partners while strengthening its data-driven blueprint for population—based change. Your assistance would allow the County to increase its information sharing program while diversifying the resources and services available to vulnerable populations. Please know, your investment will not only benefit Dutchess County, but will create the capacity for regionalized and long-term sustained change throughout the Hudson Valley. Therefore, I as that you give your full and fair consideration to this request. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this matter as both are greatly appreciated.
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the United States Senate voted to confirm Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. “Regardless of where you come down on Brett Kavanaugh’s judicial opinions, the claims made against this nominee by several women, including Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, are credible and cause for concern. Mr. Kavanaugh’s conduct during the hearing regarding the accusations are also concerning – Supreme Court Justices should be impartial and above political influence. Mr. Kavanaugh has demonstrated that he will be neither. “In addition to those issues, we risk swinging the court away from the reasonable and deliberate decisions of Justice Kennedy and toward partisan extremism. Women’s rights, LGBTQ rights, affirmative action, voting rights, and more are all on the line. I’m disappointed that the Senate has gone forward with the confirmation of a partisan nominee who’s been credibly accused of sexual assault, and I believe we will have to deal with the fallout of this decision for years to come.”
10.05.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced six federal investments, totaling $5,328,374, for Orange County and the Cities of Newburgh and Poughkeepsie. The investments will be awarded through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)’s Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), Emergency Solutions Grant Program (ESG), and the HOME program. Each of these initiatives promote economic growth through housing assistance and the expansion of local economic projects. “These are critical investments in the future of communities in Orange and Dutchess counties,” said Rep. Maloney. “These investments will allow Orange County and Poughkeepsie to work on essential economic development projects that will create good-paying jobs and affordable housing for folks who need a hand - it’s a win all around.” “This investment is great news for the City of Poughkeepsie and will help grow our region’s economy,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for his work in securing this investment in Poughkeepsie’s future – and for his continued support for our City. ” “We’re excited about this federal investment opportunity and know that it will play a major role in boosting the economic vitality of the City of Newburgh,” said Torrance Harvey, Mayor of Newburgh. “This award will continue to move us forward and we are so grateful to the Congressman for believing in us and helping us reinvest in Newburgh.” The Community Development Block (CDBG) Grants program provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. The Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program provides funding to engage homeless individuals and families living on the street; improve the number, quality and operations of emergency shelters for homeless individuals and families; provide essential services to shelter residents, rapidly re-house homeless individuals and families, and prevent families/individuals from becoming homeless. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. ###
10.04.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced a $128,978 federal investment from the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS School Violence Protection Program to bolster school safety in the Village of Goshen. The investment is authorized by the STOP School Violence Act, which Maloney co-sponsored in Congress. Maloney’s office has worked closely with local school districts following recent school shootings to ensure administrators are educated on grant investment opportunities to enhance safety in the classroom. This announcement comes after Maloney announced an $85,000 federal investment to support school safety for the Valley Central School District. “Look, I’m a dad and I’ve got two kids in public school,” said Rep. Maloney. “Classroom safety is something I worry about every day. We have to invest in school security and make sure that the law enforcement officers that run into buildings to protect our kids are ready when faced with an emergency. We owe so much to the brave men and women that keep us safe, and that includes equipping them with the resources they need.” “This is very good news – the security of our children is of primary importance to us all – regardless of who provides it or at what cost,” said Town of Goshen Supervisor Doug Bloomfield. “I’m glad that the federal government has recognized the need and is helping out with this issue.” These investments, expressly authorized by Congress under the STOP School Violence Act, work to bolster school security, educate and train students and faculty, and support law enforcement officers and first responders who arrive on the scene of a school violence incident. They are intended to improve school security by helping students and teachers reduce exposure to risks, prevent acts of violence, and quickly recognize and respond to violent attacks. The STOP School Violence Act, passed through the House in March of this year, creates an anonymous reporting system for threats of school violence, implements improvements to school security infrastructure, and develops student, teacher and law enforcement training to prevent violence. Following the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, Rep. Maloney met personally with students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in his Washington, D.C. office. He then held four town halls in the Hudson Valley to hear directly from students and parents on their concerns about school safety. He also launched a letter-writing campaign to encourage Hudson Valley students to make their voices heard on the issue of gun violence. He hand-delivered the more-than 200 responses to Speaker Ryan’s office. Rep. Maloney supports strong federal efforts to combat the gun violence epidemic, including: banning assault weapons, raising the purchasing age, improving the National Instant Background Check System (NICS), implementing universal background checks and closing the gun show loophole, as well as repealing the Dickey Amendment, which has prevented research on gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has announced that two more of his legislative provisions will head to the president’s desk to be signed into law. The first provision requires airlines to upgrade the contents of emergency medical kits, which have not been updated for nearly 20 years, to include appropriately-sized doses of medication for children. The second provision requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to investigate a questionable contractor, Florida-based Bronze Star, which failed to deliver $30 million worth of supplies during Hurricane Maria. Both provisions passed the House of Representatives in April as part of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill, and passed the Senate today. Airline Kids in Transit Safety (KiTS) Act The Airline Kids in Transit Safety (KiTS) Act would modernize FAA regulations to protect children on commercial airlines. Airplanes are currently not required to carry child-sized doses of emergency medicine or medical devices onboard passenger aircrafts. The KiTS Act would require the FAA to update these regulations within a year. Rep. Maloney first introduced the legislation in 2015 alongside former Republican Rep. Richard Hanna, and again in 2017 with Rep. John Faso (NY-19). “Millions of Americans fly every year, and a lot of them are kids – we need our airlines to be prepared to handle emergencies for all of their passengers, not just adults,” said Rep. Maloney. “My legislation will ensure that kids who have allergies have the supplies they need if they have a health issue while on a flight.” With more Americans traveling by air than ever before, adult travelers can generally feel safe knowing that, in the case of a medical emergency, a well-trained flight crew will have the medical equipment necessary to treat them. But shockingly, the Emergency Medical Kits (EMKs) required on commercial flights are woefully inadequate for treating the most vulnerable passengers. Given the vulnerability of infants, children and adolescents during medical emergencies, the FAA should update their outdated regulations on the contents of EMKs. The Airline KiTS Act would specifically require the FAA, within one year of enactment, to initiate a rulemaking to update the requirements for EMKs to ensure that they contain appropriate medication and equipment to meet the emergency needs of children. The bill has been endorsed by the American Association of Pediatrics. Bronze Star Contract Audit After news reports revealed that a two-month old company with no prior business experience was awarded a $30 million dollar contract to provide tarps and plastic sheeting to victims of Hurricane Maria, Rep. Maloney introduced a provision to conduct a formal audit of the contracting process. The company, Bronze Star LLC, failed to deliver on the contract, leaving tens of thousands of Americans in Puerto Rico without aid supplies necessary to keep homes dry as repairs were made. “The Trump Administration bungled the response to Hurricane Maria so badly that almost 3,000 people died – we need to get to the bottom of what happened, and that includes figuring out why we gave a $30 million contract for necessary emergency supplies to people who didn’t know what the hell they were doing,” said Rep. Maloney. “This audit should be part of a comprehensive look at what this administration did wrong. We can’t ever let this happen again.” Bronze Star, a Florida-based contractor that was founded in August 2017, received a FEMA contract in October 2017 to supply 500,000 plastic tarps and 60,000 rolls of plastic sheeting to Americans in Puerto Rico reeling from Hurricane Maria. These materials are used to temporarily patch holes in roofs and walls caused by hurricane damage, and are designed to keep homes dry until permanent repairs can be made. Bronze Star was only two months old at the time the contract was awarded, had no history of fulfilling government contracts, and was headquartered at a single-family private residence in Florida. Unsurprisingly, the company failed to deliver on the contract. Rep. Maloney’s provision was initially included in the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2017, which passed unanimously through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee during the bill’s mark-up in November 2017. The provision requires the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security to begin an audit of the Bronze Star contract within 30 days and issue a report to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, as well as the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs within 270 days. The audit must consider the contracting and evaluation process, accountability requirements, and how the contract cancellation affected the provision of supplies to people in need in Puerto Rico.
10.03.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced an $85,000 U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investment for the Valley Central School District to combat school violence. The investment is being made through DOJ’s STOP School Violence Threat Assessment and Technology Reporting Program, which Maloney supported by cosponsoring the STOP School Violence Act. Maloney’s office has worked closely with local school districts following recent school shootings to ensure administrators are educated on grant investment opportunities to enhance safety in the classroom. “The sad reality is that school violence is still a huge problem, and like a lot of parents, I worry about it when I put my girls on the school bus every day,” said Rep. Maloney. “We need to identify possible threats at school, and stop shootings before they happen – that’s just what this funding will do.” The BJA’s STOP School Violence Threat Assessment and Technology Reporting Program is designed to improve school security by providing students and teachers with the tools they need to recognize, respond quickly to, and prevent acts of violence. It provides funding to state and local governments to develop threat assessment and crisis intervention teams, and anonymous reporting systems, designed to identify threats before they materialize, including those that originate from individuals with mental health issues; and for the training of students, school personnel and local law enforcement officers so that they can partner in preventing violent events from happening.
09.25.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Newburgh City Council voted to accept a nearly $1.5 million federal investment to hire and retain nine firefighters. The investment, made through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program, is contingent on acceptance by local authorities and requires a local investment. “The city council made the right call – I’ve been all over FEMA to approve this funding request, and it’s great to know we’ve got a committed local partner in the City of Newburgh. Our firefighters have been waiting patiently for the bureaucratic process to play out, and now that it has, we need to get our guys back on the job as soon as possible. The city will be a lot safer with an expanded strength of force and everyone in the city will benefit from that.” Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $6 million in federal investments for the Newburgh Fire Department. In 2013, shortly after Rep. Maloney took office, the department applied for its first SAFER grant, but was initially denied. Rep. Maloney then worked with the department to ensure they received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.4 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. In 2015, when the initial round of funding ran out and the department faced twelve potential layoffs, Rep. Maloney urged FEMA to approve another SAFER grant to prevent a potential round of layoffs and hire six additional firefighters. In July 2016, Rep. Maloney announced that FEMA had agreed to provide a rarely-awarded second SAFER grant worth $2,061,516 to fund these positions into July 2018.
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has joined a bipartisan effort to honor fallen first responders with the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor by cosponsoring the relevant legislation and joining an effort to encourage the Financial Services Committee to hold a hearing on the bill, which has been stymied in committee. Currently, only those first responders who died on 9/11 are eligible for an existing medal honoring their service, the 9/11 Heroes Medal of Valor. “A lot of people who risked it all on 9/11 are sick, or have passed, because of their service on that day – they deserve to be honored just like the folks who were lost on 9/11 itself,” said Rep. Maloney. “We’ve provided the health care these folks have earned, but we also owe them an additional tribute for their commitment to their service and their sacrifice on 9/11.” In addition to signing on to the legislation, Rep. Maloney also signed on to a letter to Financial Services Committee Chairman Jed Hensarling and Ranking Member Maxine Waters encouraging the pair to hold bipartisan hearings. The bill, the 9/11 Heroes Medal of Valor Act of 2017 would allow first responders who died of 9/11-related health issues to be posthumously awarded a medal for their service. Although hundreds of first responders were lost on the day of the terrorist attacks, hundreds more have died since the event, including many first responders. According to the Uniformed Firefighters Association (UFA), 163 firefighters have died as the result of illnesses related to their service on 9/11, including 18 just last year. In January, Rep. Maloney requested that the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), allow Mount Sinai Health System to establish a clinical care center in the Hudson Valley to treat 9/11 first responders nearer to their homes. Many of these heroes live in the region, but have to travel up to two hours to the closest health care facility in Manhattan. Rep. Maloney also cosponsored the reauthorization of the James Zadroga Act, which extends the authorization for critical health programs which benefit first responders with 9/11-related health issues. The text of the letter is below. In light of the upcoming anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks on our nation, we respectfully ask your committee act to advance H.R. 3834, the 9/11 Heroes Medal of Valor Act of 2017 to the floor. The legislation, introduced last year, enjoys bipartisan support and is critical to ensuring all those brave individuals who risked their lives helping in the recovery efforts are duly recognized. On September 11, 2001, a heinous act of terror rocked New York City, and our entire nation, to the core. Many of our constituents’ families and communities suffered devastating losses on that day. But the horror the world witnessed on that day was met by the brotherhood, humanity, and courage shown by our public safety officers in the wake of tragedy. The bravery of fire fighters, our police officers, Port Authority officers, and many search, rescue and recovery officers in New York and at the Pentagon who gave their lives deserves recognition. That is why I was proud to help pass the 9-11 Heroes Medal of Valor Act in 2005 to ensure that these men and women were honored for their ultimate sacrifice. Unfortunately, due to World Trade Center-related illnesses, more first responders have been claimed by this tragedy, and they too deserve recognition. When more than 440 heroes received the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor in 2005, we could not contemplate that so many more would become ill as a result of 9-11. The toxic dust from the towers and Pentagon rubble, when inhaled, proved to have long-lasting and deadly effects, particularly for first responders. For example, according to the Uniformed Firefighters Association, 163 firefighters died as a result of these illnesses, with 18 officers having died in 2017 alone. Hundreds of other public safety officers have met a similar fate. That is why I introduced legislation to ensure that the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor is also awarded to those public safety officers who have perished as a result of a WTC-related health condition. The officers who lost their lives as a result of their service on September 11 are national heroes. While those who passed from WTC-related illnesses did not die on that day, they are no less deserving of recognition. I hope your committee will swiftly advance this important legislation, so it can be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives and we can provide these brave heroes with the recognition they deserve.
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON– In a letter, dated September 5, 2018, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) demanded that Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long improve his agency’s system for validating homeownership and for notifying homeowners to changes in the application process after over 335,000 Puerto Rican homeowners were denied disaster recovery housing assistance. FEMA has reportedly applied an inconsistent approval process for verifying homeownership among Puerto Ricans who lost their homes during Hurricane Maria, including the denial of housing assistance to homeowners who produced the deeds to their now-destroyed homes. FEMA has recently approved the use of “sworn statements” to help address this issue, however, it has failed to notify homeowners who were previously denied assistance. “Because of FEMA’s incompetence, thousands of people died and hundreds of thousands more have been unable to start rebuilding their lives,” said Rep. Maloney. “We’ve got all these Americans who should be eligible for help after their homes were destroyed, but bureaucratic red tape has gotten in their way – it’s time for FEMA to get it together and start being helpful.” Like in many economically-depressed areas of the world, homeownership in Puerto Rico is not always demonstrated through the possession of official titles or deeds even though many of the existing structures have existed for decades. FEMA has struggled to respond to that reality, and has by its own admission, denied 335,748 applications for assistance as of the early summer. FEMA has also reportedly denied housing assistance even to homeowners who produced the official legal documentation FEMA traditionally requires. In May, Rep. Maloney sent another letter to FEMA Administrator Brock Long asking the agency to reconsider its decision to deny Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló’s request for assistance through the Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP). The DHAP program was created in response to the myriad emergency response failures associated with the response to Hurricane Katrina, specifically for low-income residents who were displaced from their homes. The program provides time-limited rental subsidies and case management to households affected by different disasters. The contours of the program change based on the need of local residents and the nature of the disaster affecting them. The text of the letter is available below and an original version is available here. I write to insist that FEMA improve its methods for evaluating homeownership for Puerto Rican families working to return to their homes. I have written to you previously about the denial of Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) support for Puerto Ricans and yet the very real and desperate housing needs of hundreds of thousands of these citizens continues to go unaddressed by your agency. I appreciate your recent work with outside groups to improve your processes for assessing homeownership status, and I ask that you expand this work as well as notify families whose applications were initially denied that new criteria for evaluation are available. I have recently learned that more than 335,000 applications for disaster assistance funding to rebuild homes have been denied and that more than 43,000 of these cases have been appealed. It is my understanding that the primary reason that these applications have been denied is the lack of proof of homeownership. I’ve also learned that your agency has applied an inconsistent and arbitrary approval process - sometimes denying applications when a deed was present and sometimes approving applications with a sworn affidavit. People are struggling to get back into their homes because of your agency’s bureaucratic mistakes. That’s unacceptable. I am encouraged to learn of the Office of Chief Counsel’s work with Latino Justice and the National Low Income Housing Coalition to develop “sworn statements” as an attainable means to allow Puerto Ricans to demonstrate homeownership. It is my understanding that a similar process was used successfully in Texas. I encourage you to notify families whose applications for disaster assistance have been denied of these “sworn statements” so that they may appeal their cases. I also encourage you to expedite and otherwise improve the process. Things as simple as ensuring that FEMA employees sent to evaluate Puerto Rican homes speak Spanish and understand how Puerto Ricans demonstrate ownership of their homes is not courtesy, its crucial. Puerto Ricans are Americans. They deserve the same respect due any other American who has suffered from the effects of natural disaster. Your agency has been charged with ensuring that relief is provided in a timely and effective manner to our fellow citizens and I implore you to take immediate steps to improve the disaster assistance funding application process to meet the unique needs of the Puerto Rican people.
09.04.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $249,052 to allow Orange County’s Minkus Farms to promote their new local-label products, contract with larger regional food retailers, and hire three new employees. The funding is made available through the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA’s) Value Added Producer Program (VAPG). “I’m committed to making sure our family farms in Orange County receive the federal assistance they need to stay competitive in our changing, 21st century farm economy,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud to announce these funds, and I’ll keep working alongside our local farmers to secure the federal investments that will keep our Hudson Valley farms competitive.” “We are really excited to promote and market local onions,” said Dylan Dembeck, Director of Operations, Minkus Family Farms. “People have been eating local for a thousand years before all the advancements in transportation. It makes sense to source locally and not burn all the extra fuel to ship produce across the country when it is available from a local farm. Consumers want a local fresh product that is more sustainable and environmentally friendly and that is what we can offer with local onions.” This Rural Development investment will be used to deploy a local onion marketing program to increase sales margins for the Minkus family's onions. The family farm will provide half of the funding necessary to implement the improvements, and the other half will be provided by the VAPG program. Funding will allow the farm to promote their new local-labelled products and contract with large regional food retailers. Three new employees will also be hired to implement the project. The VAPG program helps agricultural producers enter into value-added activities related to the processing and/or marketing of new products. The goals of this program are to generate new products, create and expand marketing opportunities, and increase producer income.
08.30.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced four total federal investments through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to help nonprofit organizations throughout the Hudson Valley to combat drug use among young people. The Warwick Valley Prevention Coalition, Operation P.J. PRIDE, Southern Dutchess Community Coalition, and Somers Partners in Prevention Coalition will each receive an investment of $125,000 to establish and strengthen community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent youth substance use and misuse. The agencies will distribute the funding to their partner coalitions who will conduct the day-to-day prevention efforts in their communities. “I hear about heroin and opioid abuse in every single community I visit in the Hudson Valley – we have to do more to combat this epidemic and that means opening the toolbox and using every tool available,” said Rep. Maloney. “These investments will help communities throughout the Hudson Valley to keep their kids safe by working to keep them off drugs.” Warwick Community Bandwagon, Inc., Warwick Valley Prevention Coalition "The Warwick Valley Prevention Coalition is grateful to receive the 2018 Drug Free Communities grant,” said Annie Colonna, Director of Prevention Services, Warwick Valley Community Center. “It will enable us to continue the important work we are doing to address the substance use disorder epidemic in our community. Our mission has been to reduce alcohol and marijuana abuse among youth and to prevent initiation into all drug use by encouraging wise & healthy decisions by all community members. By encouraging wise and healthy decisions by ALL community members, we are acknowledging the impact that adult community norms have on youth substance use. Our vision is to create a community that supports healthy life styles that exclude underage drinking, excessive drinking, marijuana use, heroin use and abuse of prescription medications; that supports prevention efforts in the school district by focusing on healthy lifestyle choices & skills; and that creates opportunities for youth to become role models and leaders in their communities." The goal of the Warwick Valley Prevention Coalition is to establish and strengthen community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent youth substance misuse. The funding will be distributed to Warwick Community Bandwagon, Inc. to conduct the day-to-day drug prevention operations. The coalition will achieve its goal by providing information to the community, enhancing skills and providing support, reducing access to drugs and changing consequences and policies around drug use, engaging youth in efforts to prevent substance use crises before they occur, and participating in prescription Take Back days and disposal boxes. Catholic Charities of Orange, Sullivan, and Ulster, Operation P.J. PRIDE “Catholic Charities is delighted to receive year four funding of the Drug Free Communities Grant for the continuation of Operation P.J. PRIDE,” said Dawn Wilkin, Director of Prevention Services, Catholic Charities of Orange, Sullivan, and Ulster. “This committed community coalition has made great strides in addressing issues of substance abuse in Port Jervis. This funding will allow Operation P.J. PRIDE to continue this important work that is making positive differences in the lives of residents of all ages in the City of Port Jervis. We greatly appreciate the support of Congressman Maloney in securing this much-needed funding,” Catholic Charities of Orange, Sullivan, and Ulster is a previous recipient of an ONDCP investment, and will use the funding to continue their successful drug prevention programs. The funding will be distributed to Operation PJ (Port Jervis) PRIDE to conduct day-to-day drug use prevention efforts. Council on Addiction Prevention & Education of Dutchess County, Inc. (CAPE), Southern Dutchess Community Coalition “CAPE remains monumentally grateful for the continued support and funding,” said Elaine Trumpetto, Executive Director, CAPE. Through the DFC grant, the Southern Dutchess Community Coalition has been able to develop and expand in ways that have allowed much needed programs and resources to reach our communities’ youth, families, and greater Dutchess County constituency.” CAPE of Dutchess, based in Fishkill, is a previous recipient of an ONDCP investment, and will use the funding to continue their successful drug prevention programs. The Council was established to meet the growing need for Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drug (ATOD) prevention and education services in Dutchess County. CAPE is certified by the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services to provide prevention counseling, recovery, and education to businesses, community organizations, schools and agencies. Somers Partners in Prevention Coalition, Somers Central School District “This funding will build on Somers’ commitment to substance abuse prevention, initiate new activities, and expand school and community partnerships to more comprehensively address this serious national issue,” said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Student Assistance Services Corporation, which provides consultation on substance abuse prevention for Westchester and Putnam school districts and communities. The goal of the Somers Partners in Prevention Coalition is to establish and strengthen community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent youth substance misuse establish and strengthen community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent youth substance misuse. The coalition will achieve its goal by developing coalition infrastructure and capacity, youth engagement, increasing parental education, enforcing underage drinking laws and community policies. The Somers Central School District will implement drug prevention efforts.
08.29.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced a $450,000 investment through the Department of Justice (DOJ) to allow the Town of Pound Ridge to implement a comprehensive strategy to stop violence against women. The investment, made through the Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program, will allow the town to establish a wraparound strategy for stopping violence against women as well as human trafficking. “I’ve got two daughters and I worry about them every day when they go out into the world – we need to make our country safer for everyone, but especially women, who are too often the targets of violence,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’ve always supported the Violence Against Women Act, and we’re going to see its positive impact right here in the community as the result of the funding it’s made available.” “The Town of Pound Ridge is committed to stopping all kinds of violence – especially against women. This grant will help us create a comprehensive strategy for making our Town a safer place to live, work, and raise a family,” said Town of Pound Ridge Supervisor Kevin Hansan. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for his continued support for the Violence Against Women Act, and our Chief of Police Dave Ryan, Deputy Supervisor Alison Boak and former Town Supervisor Richard Lyman for recognizing the need and taking action to address violence against women. I look forward to continuing our work to make our communities safe and welcoming for everyone.” The Town of Pound Ridge, in collaboration with its non-profit victim service partner Hope’s Door, will use this award to establish a location where accessible, co-located, comprehensive, culturally-competent, trauma informed advocacy services are provided to victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, stalking, and human trafficking. The project will include the hiring of a case manager to provide services to survivors of sexual assault; training for law enforcement, the judiciary, health care providers, and victims’ advocates; improve outreach efforts to the LGBTQ community; and expand outreach to other underserved populations, including immigrant communities. The Improving Criminal Justice Responses to Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking Grant Program implements certain provisions of the Violence Against Women Act, which was enacted in September 1994 as Title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, and reauthorized in 2000, 2005, and 2013. The program enhances victim safety and offender accountability in cases of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking by encouraging jurisdictions to work collaboratively with community partners to identify problems and share ideas that will result in effective responses to these crimes. An integral component of the Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program is the creation and enhancement of a coordinated community response that includes criminal justice agencies, victim services providers, and community organizations that respond to sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking.
08.28.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement demanding that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) immediately provide a hearing for Toribio Cervantes, an undocumented Middletown resident who has been detained. Mr. Cervantes has been moved to Manhattan and is expected to be deported without a hearing. Rep. Maloney has personally contacted senior ICE officials in an attempt to pressure the agency to hold a hearing. “ICE should immediately give Mr. Cervantes a hearing – and that has to happen before they try to remove him from the country he’s called home for decades. Any attempt to deport him without due process would be an outrageous breach of our basic legal responsibilities. Respecting the rule of law means upholding the central tenets of our Constitution. One of the most basic promises is our right to a trial. It’s time for ICE to stop playing games and hold a hearing.” Mr. Cervantes has lived in the United States for decades. In 1993, he was caught up in a sweep by ICE along with dozens of other undocumented immigrants. Although he could not read English and had no attorney present, he was forced to sign a voluntary departure document. Mr. Cervantes was recently apprehended by ICE at his home in the middle of the night. Last night, he was moved to an ICE facility in Manhattan.
08.27.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that the Newburgh Housing Authority will receive a federal investment of $250,000 to improve safety for families at its Mullins Apartment Complex. The investment, made through the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD’s) Public Housing Capital Fund Emergency Safety and Security grant program, will allow the housing authority to conduct site work to improve safety, including installing cameras, better lighting, and fencing at the complex, which primarily serves families. “The families who live at Mullins Apartments deserve the peace of mind that comes with commonsense security features like cameras and lighting,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m thrilled the Newburgh Housing Authority is taking these proactive steps to protect the folks who live there and I’ll continue to work alongside our housing authorities to improve the services they provide.” “The safety of our residents is the Newburgh Housing Authority’s top priority, and we’re excited to make security upgrades at the Mullins Apartment Complex which will protect the families who live there,” said Lawrence R Jackson, Executive Director, Newburgh Housing Authority. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for his work on behalf of families in Newburgh and I look forward to getting these new security features installed as soon as possible.” Mullins Courtyard Apartments is a family development located at 40 Walsh Road in Newburgh, NY, consisting of 70 townhouse-style units with between one and four bedrooms. On-site amenities include a site office staffed daily Monday through Friday, laundry facilities, a community room, computers for residents use, a children’s playground, and permit-based parking. Local area transit is within walking distance. Each year, Congress sets aside funds to allow housing authorities to protect against emergencies and natural disasters. Congress allocates this funding for assistance to public housing agencies for emergency capital needs, including safety and security measures necessary to address crime and drug-related activity. The funding also supports needs resulting from unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and natural disasters, excluding presidentially-declared disasters, occurring in the current fiscal year. Housing authorities are given one year to complete the necessary safety upgrades for the one-time grant disbursement. Rep. Maloney is a strong supporter of America’s public housing programs. After a fire at the Rip Van Winkle affordable housing complex in Poughkeepsie temporarily left hundreds of residents without a place to live, Rep. Maloney introduced legislation to direct HUD to require the establishment of pass-through leases in the event that tenants are displaced from their federally-subsidized housing. More information on the legislation is available here.
08.25.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the passing of longtime Senator John McCain. “John McCain will be remembered as one of the most committed public servants in American history. From his heroic actions during the Vietnam War - to his tenure as a respected member of the United States Congress, John McCain personified all of the best characteristics of what it is to be an American and a good representative of the people. He was a tough, thoughtful, principled patriot who spent his entire life serving others. “Especially in times of division, our nation hurts for leaders like Senator McCain. John knew that Americans do best when we work across all of our lines of difference towards a common good. That’s a lesson we’d all do well to remember. “Randy and I will pray for Senator McCain and his family and ask the Hudson Valley to join us in keeping them all in our thoughts.”
08.22.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a $1,200,000 investment through the Department of Transportation (DOT) to allow the Middletown and New Jersey Railroad (MNJ) to implement Positive Train Control (PTC) technology along its 43-mile track. The short line freight railroad, based in Middletown, transports goods across the county. “We need railroads like MNJ to get products across Orange County, and we need PTC to make sure our communities are safe in the event that there’s a problem with a train or its operator,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “This is the best investment we can make in protecting our communities from derailments and I’m thrilled MNJ is taking proactive steps to protect families and communities in New York.” “Safety is our top priority – this grant will allow us to install cutting edge technology to further protect our train operations and the communities they serve in Orange County,” said Al Sauer, President & CEO, Middletown & New Jersey Railroad LLC. “We want to thank Congressman Maloney for his leadership on rail safety and for making funding available to assist small railroads like ours to comply with PTC requirements.” The Middletown and New Jersey Railroad is a shortline railroad operating out of Middletown, NY. It is a subsidiary of Regional Rail, LLC, which also owns and operates several other regional lines in the northeast. Positive Train Control technology integrates a variety of different systems to prevent train accidents and derailments automatically. Equipment onboard the train communicates with global positioning systems (GPS) and assesses known track information to automatically slow down around curves and other hazards in the event of human error or other technological malfunctions. Funding for the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements is authorized through the 2015 Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act and is funded through the annual appropriations process. More information on the program is available here. Rep. Maloney is a leader in the fight to implement PTC nationwide. In 2014, he worked to pass his legislation, the Rail Safety Enforcement Act, into law which required the Federal Railroad Administration to review implementation of PTC at railroads across the country. In 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act was passed by the House of Representatives. The legislation would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), which operates both Metro-North and the Long Island Railroad, received a loan through the RRIF program in 2015 to implement the technology to meet the December, 2018 deadline for implementation. Rep. Maloney recently introduced the Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act, which would prevent further delays of the 2018 deadline for implementing PTC and provide over $2.5 billion in additional funding to assist passenger railroads to implement the technology by the end of the year. He also grilled FRA officials regarding the status of implementation of the technology on Metro-North and the Long Island Railroad.
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after former Trump Campaign Chairman Paul Manafort was convicted on eight counts including bank fraud, tax fraud, and failure to file foreign bank accounts. Manafort’s crimes were discovered by Special Counsel Robert Mueller who has also brought charges against Russian nationals and Americans associated with a scheme to manipulate the 2016 election. “Manafort’s conviction is just the latest evidence that Mueller is doing his job – and doing it pretty damn well. The Special Counsel has now secured a half-dozen convictions, racked up five guilty pleas and brought almost 200 criminal charges against Russians and Americans for interfering in our elections and committing other serious crimes. We need to get to the bottom of the interference in our democratic process and bring all guilty parties to justice. “Mueller has done more in 14 months than the Benghazi investigation did in two and a half years and he needs to be allowed to continue his work. The last piece of the puzzle is finding out whether Americans colluded with the Russian intelligence officers that Mueller has already indicted. Until we have that information, the political branches of government should stay out of the way and let Mueller do his job. I’ll keep working with my colleagues down in Washington to make sure he can.”
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Trump Administration released its plan to gut the Clean Power Plan, former President Obama’s strategy for fighting climate change. “We’re going from the Clean Power Plan to the pro-pollution power plan. It’s bad for our kids, it’s bad for our environment, and it’s going to leave us out of the green tech revolution. China’s going to pick up the torch on developing new power sources and we’re going to be relying on century-old technology. Americans are innovative, not lazy. And the President should start acting like it. “The President is mortgaging our kids’ futures to support his coal executive buddies and American workers and our economy will pay the price.
08.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and former Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald have joined together to honor former West Point Superintendent, Lieutenant General Robert Caslen, with the Distinguished Graduate Award. In a letter to the chairman and committee members of the Distinguished Graduate Award Committee, Rep. Maloney supported Secretary McDonald’s nomination of General Caslen and noted his exceptional service as superintendent. The award honors West Point graduates who embody the institution’s motto: “Duty, Honor, Country.” “Robert Caslen is exactly the kind of person this award was designed to recognize – he was an exemplary cadet who went on to serve in the Army for decades and led his alma mater into a new era of emerging threats,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the West Point Board of Visitors. “It was my honor to work alongside another noted West Point alum – Secretary McDonald – to support this nomination – and I’m confident General Caslen will receive the recognition he’s earned.” “My classmate and friend Bob Caslen provided outstanding leadership for our alma mater, improving results in virtually all areas and training leaders of character for our nation,” said former Secretary of Veterans Affairs and Retired Chairman, President, and CEO of The Procter & Gamble Company Bob McDonald. “General Caslen has lived his life consistent with the motto Duty, Honor, Country and richly deserves the Distinguished Graduate recognition. It’s my honor to partner with Representative Maloney to ensure that General Caslen receives this distinction.” Since 1992, the DGA has been presented annually to graduates “whose character, distinguished service, and stature draw wholesome comparison to the qualities for which West Point stands, as epitomized by its motto: Duty, Honor, Country.” More information on the award is available here. Rep. Maloney worked alongside Superintendent Caslen since he took office in 2013. Rep. Maloney released a statement thanking the superintendent upon his retirement in April. The text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. It is an honor to endorse the nomination of retired Lieutenant General Robert Caslen, Jr. as a “Distinguished Graduate” of the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point. Beginning his military career as a graduate of USMA in 1975, General Caslen has since become a passionate and dedicated leader within the United States Army, and recently ended his distinguished career by serving as USMA’s Superintendent. His many years of service are marked by his outstanding character, and his integrity and leadership are unparalleled. General Caslen’s devotion to both the Army and USMA has been evident throughout his 43-year career. He served with distinction during multiple deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan and has commanded troops at the company and the division level. General Caslen epitomizes the quality of leaders that this esteemed institution strives to produce. During his time as both the 70th Commandant and 59th Superintendent of USMA, he continued to embody the values of “Duty, Honor, Country” and quickly became an influential figure amongst the Corps of Cadets. Throughout my time as a member of the Board of Visitors, I have learned firsthand that General Caslen’s core belief is “when you fail at character, you fail at leadership.” General Caslen excels in both areas and has instilled that belief into the next generation of leaders. As USMA’s Superintendent, General Caslen created a new system of leadership development that focuses on promoting a culture of character growth. The positive effects of this system are now being seen at both USMA and within the Army. While USMA has been commissioning leaders of character for centuries, this new Leader Development System is building the Army officer of the future. Current cadets are being taught to recognize the power and leverage of a diverse team and how to prevent sexual assault through a culture of respect and dignity. General Caslen did an outstanding job with his focus on promoting a winning team culture at USMA, something that cadets carry with them into their careers as Army officers. The enhancements that General Caslen has made to the United States Military Academy show just how dedicated he is to our nation. He is an outstanding military leader, a down-to-earth guy, and one of the finest Army officers to ever graduate from USMA. General Caslen is truly a Distinguished Graduate and he has my unconditional support for this outstanding recognition.
08.08.2018	Poughkeepsie, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced a $275,046 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for the Fairview Fire District in Poughkeepsie. The investment will be used to purchase resources that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. “Our firefighters risk their lives day in and day out to protect our neighbors – and we should be doing everything we can to look out for their best interests,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud to deliver this investment that will ensure the folks at the Fairview Fire District have got the resources necessary to make the city and surrounding communities in Dutchess County safer.” "I’d like to thank Congressman Maloney and his staff for helping the Fairview Fire District secure this much-needed investment,” said Christopher Maeder, Fairview Fire District Chief. "It’s great news for the men and women of our department - and it will help us continue doing what we do best: keeping our community safe." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since Fiscal Year (FY) 2001, the AFG Program has provided approximately $7.1 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, as well as firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. The AFG Program will award another $310.5 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types. ###
07.31.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced a $605,000 award from the Dyson Foundation for the Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum (MHCM) in Poughkeepsie. The award will go toward the acquisition of new land to build a hands-on science center focused on interactive and inquiry-based STEM learning. In January, Rep. Maloney wrote to the Dyson Foundation in support of MHCM’s grant application. “Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum is a landmark in our community – anyone that’s gone with their kids and toured the exhibits there knows that’s true. The folks at MHCM are doing great work and this grant will help them keep building momentum,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud to have helped make this award a reality and I can’t wait to see what they do next.” "The Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum has a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to restore and repurpose two historic buildings on the Poughkeepsie Waterfront to create a new museum campus in the heart of the Hudson Valley that will inspire the next generation of critical thinkers, problem solvers and innovators - a place where young engineers are nurtured, where citizen scientists are activated and where learners of all ages are catalyzed to take action of issues of science and society,” said Lara Litchfield-Kimber, Executive Director of MHCM. “We want to thank Congressman Maloney for his early and often support and for his help in securing this award. ” Named “2017 Best Museum” by Hudson Valley Magazine, the Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum (MHCM) is a much-visited destination for families with young children in the Hudson Valley. With exhibits that focus on early literacy, art, early STEM, health and the local community, the museum welcomes over 75,000 visitors each year and provides an educationally-rich environment through which children have the opportunity to develop foundational skills, engage in purposeful play, and develop interpersonal connections. The Dyson Foundation works to improve people's lives through grant funding, promoting philanthropy, and strengthening the capacity of nonprofit organizations. The foundation was founded by Charles and Margaret Dyson in 1957 and has current assets of $215 million. It has awarded total grants of more than $360 million and funds nationally, but has a special interest in New York's Columbia, Dutchess, Greene, Orange, Putnam, and Ulster counties. In January of this year, Rep. Maloney wrote to the Dyson Foundation in strong support of MHCM’s application. The full text of Rep. Maloney’s letter of support can be found here and below: Mr. Robert R. Dyson Dyson Foundation 25 Halcyon Road Millbrook, NY 12545 Dear Mr. Dyson: I write today in support of the application submitted by the Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum to acquire ownership of the Upper Landing Property located at 83 North Water Street in Poughkeepsie. As you are well aware, the Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum (MHCM) is the only children’s museum between the larger New York City and Albany markets. Currently, MHCM maintains three program areas dedicated to the educational attainment of local youth and community members alike: school readiness, health and wellness, and community-building. With your assistance, the MHCM would be able to develop a hands-on science center focused on an interactive and inquiry-based STEM learning experience, thereby expanding education and career development in the science and technology fields by connecting local students to college programs and opportunities in local industry. In addition, the Children’s Museum would be able to expand its community-building initiatives through the development of a community curated museum designed to infuse regional experiences and history into its exhibitions and programs. The acquisition of the Upper Landing buildings would therefore provide MHCM with the infrastructure and space needed to expand all three program areas in an effort to continue its community and education focused missions. Therefore, I ask that you give your full and fair consideration to this request. Thank you in advance for your time and effort in this regard as both are greatly appreciated. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
07.31.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today released the following statement in response to news that the Newburgh Fire Department laid off five firefighters due to lack of available municipal funds. Rep. Maloney has worked hand-in-glove with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the Newburgh Fire Department to secure two federal SAFER grants in the last five years to protect these jobs. “My office played its part and helped secure five years of federal support and two SAFER grants for the Newburgh Fire Department - because Newburgh’s Bravest deserve nothing but the best. The folks at City Hall have had more than enough time to come up with some solutions to prevent these layoffs. And without these firefighters, response times will slow and our community will be left to pay the price. We can’t let that happen. Getting more firefighters on the job has been a priority of mine since day one and I will keep fighting until our heroes get the support they need – together we will get this done.” ###
07.25.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced a $249,997 U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development investment for Fishkill Farms in Dutchess County. The investment will allow Fishkill Farms to improve its marketing for new products. Rep. Maloney has served the Hudson Valley on the House Committee on Agriculture since being elected to Congress in 2013. “Fishkill Farms is a staple in our community - Josh Morgenthau and his entire family help produce the food folks eat every day – all while boosting our local economy and creating good-paying jobs for people in our part of the world,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud to announce this investment for a local landmark and I’ll keep working to make sure our local farmers have the support they need from the USDA.” “Thanks to this award, Fishkill is going to keep doing what we love: getting new and fresh products to folks right here at home in the Hudson Valley, a community we’ve been proud to be a part of for decades” said Josh Morgenthau, Owner and Operator of Fishkill Farms. “We want to thank Congressman Maloney for his early and often support of Fishkill - and for helping secure this major investment.” This Rural Development investment will be used to build brand recognition for Fishkill Farm’s Treasury Cider suite of hard cider products. The farm will increase on-farm cider sales with marketing materials, social media promotion, and greater use of Treasury Cider products in the farm's prepared food and retail offerings at the on-farm store, restaurant, and visitor center, a popular regional agritourism destination. Two new jobs will be created as a result of this investment. Rep. Maloney secured a litany of key priorities for the Hudson Valley in the 2014 version of the Farm Bill, which received broad bipartisan support. In October 2017, Rep. Maloney met with his Agriculture Advisory Board to plan his priorities for the 2018 Farm Bill. He also met with local hunger experts in February, 2018, as much of the Farm Bill focuses on the provision of nutrition assistance. In May of this year, he led the final effort by Democrats to make bipartisan improvements to the Farm Bill that would benefit Hudson Valley farmers and rural communities.
07.24.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has urged the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation to approve Safe Harbors of the Hudson’s application to revitalize the Ritz Theater in Newburgh. This application is being considered as part of the New York State Consolidated Funding Application through the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation for a stand-alone planning grant and through New York State Homes and Community Renewal for a technical assistance grant. “I’ll take any chance I can get to build on the great work being done at the Ritz – especially if it will create skilled labor opportunities for folks who live in the area,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud to support this effort, and I’ll keep working alongside our partners at Safe Harbors to get this investment.” “Safe Harbors is grateful to Congressman Maloney for his early and often support of our redevelopment project and his championing of our work alleviating homelessness and housing disparity while creating a vital downtown visual and performing arts center, spurring economic development, and revitalizing our main street,” said Lisa Silverstone, Executive Director of Safe Harbors of the Hudson. With this funding from the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation, Safe Harbors would conduct structural and design improvements to the historic Ritz Theater, increasing its operations, programs, and services. As a result, the Ritz will contribute to an accessible and vital city center by eliminating blight, redeveloping vacant property, providing skilled job opportunities, and creating a cultural and educational attraction for tourists and community members. Safe Harbors of the Hudson is a non-profit housing and arts redevelopment project that began in 2002 with the purchase of the Hotel Newburgh, a once proud destination, that had deteriorated over the years. In 2004, Safe Harbors was awarded $21 million in state, county, and federal funds to create an affordable and supportive housing complex. It has since become a cultural and commercial anchor along Newburgh’s Main Street corridor, employing more than 35 Hudson Valley residents and embracing a local-first business model. A full text of Rep. Maloney’s letter of support can be found here and below: Dear Commissioner Harvey: I write in support of the application submitted by Safe Harbors of the Hudson to the New York State Consolidated Funding Application (CFA). As you know, Safe Harbors provides safe and secure housing to our most underserved neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley. In addition, Safe Harbors goes to great lengths to promote civic engagement through the arts, and offers the community a wide range of artistic outlets. Safe Harbors has become a cultural and commercial anchor along Newburgh’s Main Street corridor, proudly employing more than 35 Hudson Valley residents and truly embracing a local-first business model. With your assistance, Safe Harbors can enhance its downtown revitalization efforts through the redevelopment of the Ritz Theater. Award of this application will allow Safe Harbors to complete the necessary structural and design improvements to the historic Ritz Theater, thereby expanding its operations, programs, and services. As a result, the Ritz will contribute to an accessible and vital city center by eliminating blight, redeveloping vacant property, providing skilled job opportunities, and creating a cultural and educational attraction for tourists and community members alike. Your investment in Safe Harbors will therefore complement ongoing regional revitalization efforts by spurring economic, tourist, and investment opportunities throughout the City of Newburgh. Therefore, I ask that you give your full and fair consideration to this request. Thank you in advance for your time and effort in this regard as both are greatly appreciated.
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has sent a letter to United States Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue asking him to immediately resolve an impending technology issue which would prevent Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) beneficiaries from using their benefits at nearly two thousand farmers markets across the country. One of the largest payment processors for the program, Novo Dia, has announced that it will stop offering the service by the end of July. Unless action is taken, the 1,700 farmers markets which rely on Novo Dia for payment processing could stop offering SNAP as a payment method and potentially leave tens of thousands of Americans without access to healthy, locally-sourced foods. “We’ve got over 100 local farmers in the Hudson Valley who send their produce to farmers markers and literally thousands of SNAP recipients who get access to healthy food through the program – we can’t let this bureaucratic problem throw a wrench in the works,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “No one is consciously pushing for the partnership between farmers and SNAP recipients to end – there’s just been a misstep at USDA. It’s time for them to take this seriously and resolve the issue.” “SNAP is our state’s largest nutrition assistance program, reducing hunger for over 1.6 million households that rely on the program,” said Linda Bopp, Executive Director of Hunger Solutions New York, a statewide anti-hunger organization. “The ability to stretch grocery budgets by using SNAP at Farmers Markets to buy fresh, healthy, local produce benefits families, farmers and small businesses. Any disruption in allowing SNAP recipients to use their benefits at farmers markets is unimaginable in this day and age. We will work diligently with our state and federal partners to ensure that SNAP remains a vital part of the shopping experience at all of our bountiful markets in the Hudson Valley and across the state.” Novo Dia, which processes 40% of all SNAP transactions at farmers markets, has historically had a contract with USDA to provide the software which allows SNAP recipients to convert their benefits to a form of payment which can be used to buy produce directly from vendors. In April, USDA awarded a contract to a new company, Financial Transaction Management, for the same service, but it’s unclear when the new company will have software available for market use. Late summer and early fall are the busiest times for farmers markets, meaning farmers who benefit from the program stand to lose millions of dollars in revenue and SNAP recipients could lose their access to fresh foods. Over $22.4 million in SNAP benefits were redeemed at farmers markets in 2017. In New York State alone, over 100 farmers markets accept SNAP payments. Nearly half of New York State’s 215 participating farms are in the Hudson Valley and generate nearly half a million dollars in revenue from the program annually. The text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Secretary Perdue, I am writing to urge the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to provide an immediate solution to Novo Dia Group’s impending withdrawal from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) EBT Transactions service. Novo Dia Group, one of the few service providers who offer SNAP EBT processing technology, is set to pull out of the service by the end of July. This withdrawal would pose a substantial challenge to those who shop for groceries using SNAP benefits at the over 1,700 farmers markets nationwide. In New York alone, tens of thousands of SNAP recipients will be unable to access affordable, fresh, healthy food from farmers’ markets as a result of this withdrawal. GrowNYC, which runs 50 of New York City’s farmers markets, exclusively uses the Novo Dia technology and will be left unable to facilitate transactions without it. GrowNYC supports hundreds of small farmers in the Hudson Valley and throughout New York. In fact, Hudson Valley vegetable growers earned more than $300,000 in 2017 through GrowNYC markets while Hudson Valley orchards earned nearly $150,000. Overall, SNAP transactions and Health Bucks, a program run by GrowNYC, these purchases generated $1.5 million in revenue for nearly 300 of New York’s small farmers. Any loss of access to these benefits at farmers markets would be devastating to the health and food-security of low-income Americans and hurt our small farmers during the peak of their season. I respectfully request that the USDA take immediate action to avoid this significant loss to SNAP participants and farmers throughout the country. Thank you for your attention this letter. I look forward to hearing from you soon on this matter.
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after voting “present” as a show of disgust for Republicans’ political games on a resolution regarding the sense of Congress about U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Republicans have failed to offer a solution to reunite parents with their children after being separated at the border and instead offered a political resolution which would have no practical effect. “Speaker Ryan and Congressional Republicans should be ashamed of themselves. Instead of working to reunite the thousands migrant children ripped from their parents’ arms, they’ve decided to pull this political stunt. I’m not interested in talking about Congress’ feelings about ICE. The Trump policy has turned the agency into a deportation force and directed them to break up families. Our job is to focus on fixing the barbaric policy these guys have been directed to enforce and find real solutions to this crisis. “There are many decent, hard-working people at ICE, but the problem is the disastrous policies of the Trump Administration. Those policies are turning parts of ICE into an indiscriminate deportation force, where good people are lumped in with gang members.”
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Trump’s meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin this morning in Helsinki. "For the first time in history, the American President has sided with a hostile foreign dictator over the FBI and his own country. I've never seen anything like this. It's not normal and it makes America look weak. "Over 100 charges have been brought against Putin allies and even Russian Government agents. They did it - there's no question. Russia has to be held accountable and our president needs to stand up for the country he's supposed to be leading. "Mueller will soon tell us the key piece - whether American citizens conspired with the now-indicted Russians."
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Following an outpouring of public support in response to his fight with the Committee on House Administration regarding its policy banning the purchase of feminine hygiene products, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) offered more than 500 donated feminine hygiene products to fellow congressional offices. On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received an email from the House finance office, under the authority and direction of the Committee on House Administration (CHA), informing him that he would have to reimburse the office for funds spent on tampons. In response to media reports describing the incident, a half-dozen private individuals from across the country sent the office feminine hygiene products. “I want to make sure every office on the Hill is welcoming to female staff and visitors – and thanks to the generosity of the American people – they will be,” said Rep. Maloney. “This issue is part of a much larger discussion about women’s rights in the workplace and the way women’s needs are treated. It’s time to bring those discussions into the 21st century.” At the end of last month, Rep. Maloney announced that the Committee on House Administration refused to permit the purchase of tampons. Rep. Maloney was directed to reimburse the office $37.16. After media reports drew public attention to the issue, CHA claimed that it was not their policy to deny the use of funds for this purpose. Below is the text of the email sent by Rep. Maloney’s office to all House offices offering up donated feminine hygiene products. Rep. Maloney’s office has only released the text of this email to protect the identities of staff members involved. You may have seen some of the press stories over the past couple weeks regarding the CHA’s policy on the use of funds to purchase feminine hygiene products. Our office has received an outpouring of support from private citizens in response to the media attention. A handful of Americans from around the country have donated a total of more than 500 feminine hygiene products to our office. We have more than enough, and want to ensure that every office is equipped to welcome female visitors and staff. If your office is interested in picking up some feminine hygiene products, come by Longworth House Office Building, room 1027. All donations comply with the relevant ethical guidelines. Transfers to other offices are permitted as member-to-member gifts are always permissible, just like with any other products.
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after President Donald Trump nominated D.C. Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. “We've been fighting for years to protect a woman’s right to choose, LGBTQ rights, affordable health care, the right to vote and more. The Senate must demand a straight answer from Mr. Kavanaugh on whether he’ll roll these protections back and whether he’ll let Trump slide if Mueller brings a case. It sounds like the answer is yes, and if it is, the Senate must reject this confirmation. All Senate Democrats should oppose Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination. “Democrats got rolled on Merrick Garland because Senate Republicans refused to do their job and we let them get away with it. We ended up paying for it on the bench. We can’t make that mistake again – there’s too much on the line.”
07.03.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after New York State Trooper Nicholas Clark was shot and killed by a suicidal man the trooper was sent to aid. Trooper Clark is the sixth officer to die while in the line of duty in New York State this year. “My heart goes out to Trooper Clark, his family, the other troopers in his unit, and to the entire New York State law enforcement community. Any time we lose a sworn officer, it’s a tragedy, but this is especially terrible because Trooper Clark was sent to help this man who was struggling with mental health issues. “This is just one example of the danger that our law enforcement officers put themselves in to protect people – including people who would do them harm – on a daily basis. I hope everyone in New York will join me in saying a prayer for Trooper Clark and his family.”
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON – After the Committee on House Administration released a statement lying about its policy preventing the use of funds to cover the cost of tampons, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney hit back and released the text of the email his office received. On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received the email from the finance office, under the authority and direction of the Committee on House Administration (CHA), informing him that he would have to reimburse the office for funds spent on tampons. “They’re lying and backtracking to avoid admitting that they stand by and enforce this archaic, sexist policy,” said Rep. Maloney. “They’re blaming some bureaucrat under their own authority for enforcing a policy they created. That’s pretty embarrassing, and it’s shameful. I wanted to release the text of the email to set the record straight.” Yesterday, Rep. Maloney announced that the Committee on House Administration refused to permit the purchase of tampons with official funds. Rep. Maloney then reimbursed the office $37.16. In response, a spokesperson for CHA released a statement claiming that Rep. Maloney never contacted the committee, even though Rep. Maloney published the letter he sent to the committee that very day. The CHA also falsely claimed that Rep. Maloney’s office had never received an email requiring the reimbursement. Below is the text of the email sent to Rep. Maloney’s office by a House finance office staffer. The finance office is a bureaucratic institution which is under the authority of – and enforces rules made by – the Committee on House Administration, a political body. Rep. Maloney’s office has only released the text of the email to protect the identities of staff members involved in the incident. “The office will need to reimburse the card in the amount of $37.16. We will be pulling that amount from the next month’s payment. Tampons are not an office supply but a personal care item. Let me know if you have questions.”
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – After the Committee on House Administration refused to permit the purchase of tampons with official funds and instead charged him personally for the purchase, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney sent a letter to the committee demanding that it reverse its discriminatory policy. The Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA), governed by the Committee on House Administration, is the annual allocation each Member of Congress receives to maintain their office and can be used to purchase other hygienic products including tissues, hand sanitizer, lotion, and first aid kits. “I couldn’t believe it when I found out about this – we use our office funds to pay for other necessary health products and there’s no damn good reason they can’t be used for this purpose,” said Rep. Maloney. “This is an important part of a larger discussion about how women are treated in the workplace here in Congress and across the country. It’s time for Congress to lead on these issues.” The MRA is the annual allowance provided to each Congressional office to pay staff, fund official travel, and for the purchase of official supplies and office necessities. Congressional offices are permitted to use the funds to pay for other necessary hygienic products, as well as embellished letter openers, brass bookends, gavel sets with engravable plates, and wooden “executive tissue holders.” On June 26, Rep. Maloney’s office received an email from the Committee on House Administration alerting him that the purchase was not permissible and that he would be required to personally reimburse the funds. More than half of Rep. Maloney’s Washington staff are female, and the office hosts constituents and other visitors who may need access to these products on a daily basis. The text of the letter is below and an original version is available here. Chairman Harper: I’m writing today to ask that you immediately reverse the Committee on House Administration’s policy barring the use of funds to purchase feminine hygiene products. My office purchased a box of tampons for constituents, staff, and other visitors. The office then received notification that this was not a permissible purchase. I have now written a personal check to reimburse the office. The Members’ Representational Allowance (MRA) can be used to purchase other necessary hygienic products including tissues and hand sanitizer. With that in mind, it is simply outrageous that the Committee’s policy bars the use of funds for another necessary hygienic product. Using office funds to purchase feminine hygiene products is common practice in the private sector and elsewhere in the public sector. There’s no legitimate reason to prevent it here in the House of Representatives. We’re finally having long-overdue discussions regarding women’s rights in this institution. This is part of that discussion. Please immediately rescind this policy. I look forward to your response.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after opposing the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, the second of two partisan immigration bills introduced by Republicans. The bill, written by Paul Ryan and lacking Democratic cosponsors, would tie immigration status for dreamers to funding for President Trump’s border wall. “This thing is not a compromise – it still holds dreamers hostage, slashes legal immigration, and limits access to asylum for innocent people fleeing persecution. It also throws billions of dollars down the drain for Trump’s border wall. “We need immigration reform that’ll provide dreamers with the opportunity to stay in the only country they’ve ever known and give adults who are undocumented the chance to get right with the law without getting off the hook for breaking it. We should also secure our borders – but if you ask the Republicans who represent those areas in Congress, they’ll tell you a big stupid wall is not the answer. “This bill is not a serious attempt to fix the problems in our broken immigration system – it’s just the latest dumpster fire in the Republican-controlled Congress.”
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) supported last night’s passage of the Blue Water Vietnam Veterans Act of 2017, legislation that will extend existing disability benefits to Vietnam-era Navy veterans who were affected by Agent Orange. Currently, only military personnel who served on land or inland waterways qualify for treatment benefits for a litany of Agent Orange-related health problems even though tens of thousands of navy veterans were affected by the herbicides washed into the area’s waterways. Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has cosponsored the legislation, which was previously introduced by former Rep. Chris Gibson. “It’s ridiculous that this arbitrary distinction about where someone served has prevented so many veterans and their families from getting the care and compensation they deserve – the Senate needs to get in the game and pass this legislation right away,” said Rep. Maloney. “I don’t care if you served your country on land or at sea, if Agent Orange made you sick, you deserve to be compensated for that exposure.” “I want to thank the congressman for the hard work that he put into this – it was nice to see how our representatives work across the aisle. My husband passed away 16 years ago and was a blue water navy veteran,” said Carol Olszanecki, who has worked with Rep. Maloney in support of the legislation. “The VA told me I wouldn’t get anything in benefits, so after that I committed to making sure that wouldn’t happen to anyone else.” During the Vietnam War, over 20 million gallons of Agent Orange were used to remove jungle foliage. Exposure to the chemical has been linked to a number of health conditions, including: non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, various cancers, Diabetes, and Parkinson’s disease. In 1991, Congress passed the Agent Orange Act, allowing veterans with certain Agent Orange-linked illnesses to qualify for “presumptive” benefit status. This meant that Agent Orange-affected veterans could automatically qualify for additional compensation. However, in 2002, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) stopped providing these automatic benefits to veterans who served in the waters off the coast of Vietnam. Navy veterans who served on land or inland waterways continued to qualify for the automatic benefit. Since the VA changed its policy in 2002, benefits have been provided on a case-by-case basis to veterans who served off the coast. The 2002 policy change meant veterans who did not serve on land or on rivers – and their families – were not guaranteed benefits. Some veteran families, like Carol Olszanecki were initially denied benefits altogether. Although Carol appealed the decision and ultimately received the benefits her husband earned in Vietnam, other Navy veterans in similar situations have been unable to qualify for additional compensation. The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act would simply restore the automatic qualification for additional compensation for Agent Orange exposure status to US service members who served in the territorial seas of Vietnam during the Vietnam War.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the Preventing Family Separation for Immigrants with Disabilities Act, supplementary legislation to the Keep Families Together Act, which will extend family separation prevention protections to all people with intellectual disabilities. Rep. Maloney’s bill would simply ensure that both children and adults with disabilities are not separated from their family caregivers within 100 miles of the border. “People with disabilities need to be with family – not thrown into a cage somewhere thousands of miles away,” said Rep. Maloney. “The Keep Families Together Act is perfect legislation for shielding innocent children from the Trump Administration, but we also need to make sure we’re looking out for folks with disabilities who may not qualify for that bill’s protections.” “USICD demands that The Department of Homeland Security follow its responsibilities under Federal law and identify detainees with disabilities, prevent unnecessary and traumatizing separations, and provide the reasonable accommodation under the law for those detained family members with disabilities, including appropriate medical care,” said Isabel Hodge, Executive Director, United States International Council on Disabilities (USCID). “We support Congressman Maloney’s bill to limit the separation of families including those with intellectual disabilities.” The Preventing Family Separation for Immigrants with Disabilities Act would prevent all people with intellectual disabilities from being separated from their families within 100 miles of the border. Many people with intellectual disabilities rely on family for direct care, including people coming to the United States. These immigrants are at risk of losing learned skills, experiencing more intense trauma and negative behavior, and causing harm to themselves or others. These individuals may also have additional difficulty understanding instruction given by American personnel, experience stress in loud conditions, and experience heightened risk for sexual and physical abuse. These conditions are all ameliorated by the presence of a committed family caregiver. Rep. Maloney is an original cosponsor of the Keep Families Together Act, which would stop the Trump Administration from enforcing its separation policy by prohibiting the removal of a child from their parents or legal guardians within 100 miles of the border and any other ports of entry. He’s also an original cosponsor of the HELP Separated Children Act, which would ensure the humane treatment of children already separated from their families by immigration enforcement authorities. The legislation would guarantee parents of these children have access to information on their children, the ability to stay in contact, and the right to say goodbye to their children before being separated. Rep. Maloney is also a member of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus and led the fight to protect people with disabilities during deliberation on the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON — Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Eliot Engel (NY-16) have requested that the Coast Guard commit to conducting early public outreach and release an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) prior to proposing any new anchorage proposals. They also requested that the Guard permanently maintain a Harbor Safety Committee for the Hudson River north of the George Washington Bridge. In 2017, the Coast Guard rescinded its initial proposal to establish new anchorage sites along the river and instead opted to conduct a Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA). Although the initial proposal is dead, no legal barrier prohibits future attempts to propose the establishment of new anchorage sites in the river. “The Hudson Valley killed the first anchorage proposal together – ten thousand citizens, committed local groups, and elected officials on both sides of the aisle – but this thing could come back – and if it does, we want to be ready,” said Rep. Maloney. “We’re just asking the Coast Guard to do things in a more transparent way this time around – clearly this means a lot to us, and they need to take that into account before they propose adding even a single new anchorage site.” “Thanks to the efforts of dedicated citizens, community groups and elected officials, the Coast Guard’s misguided plan to designate 10 anchorage areas for barges on the Hudson River is effectively finished,” said Rep. Engel. “This was a massive victory for the region, but we cannot allow ourselves to be lulled into a sense of complacency. We must remain vigilant. And so today we are asking the Coast Guard to guarantee meaningful transparency, public involvement, and environmental review for any potential future proposals impacting the Hudson.” In 2016, the Coast Guard proposed the construction of 10 new anchorage sites along the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. The proposed sites would hold a total of 43 berths, including 42 long-term berths, for barges travelling downriver to the Port of New York. After receiving universal opposition from citizens, local stakeholder groups, and a bipartisan coalition of elected officials, the Coast Guard agreed to retract its proposal and instead hold a series of PAWSA workshops. The aim of these workshops was to get a comprehensive look at the need for such a proposal as the result of safety concerns and seek out local input before proceeding with any possible future proposals. The 2017 PAWSA workshops for the Hudson River were held on November 7-8 in Poughkeepsie and November 15-16 in Albany. In 1996, Congress directed the U.S. Coast Guard “to identify minimum user requirements for new Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) systems in consultation with local officials, waterways users and port authorities.” As a result, the Coast Guard created the PAWSA process, which was established to open a dialogue with waterway users and stakeholders. However, the results of the PAWSA process are not legally binding. If the Coast Guard intends to advance another anchorage proposal in the future, they would be required to initiate the same Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking process they announced in 2016. In March, Reps. Maloney and Engel vowed to hold the Coast Guard to the results of the PAWSA report. The text of the letter is below, and an original version is available here. Dear Admiral Zukunft: During the events leading to the withdrawal of the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) for Hudson River anchorages, the United States Coast Guard identified certain review and planning procedures it intends to follow in the future. While we remain optimistic that there will not be additional proposals for anchorages in the Hudson, we seek your assurance that procedures identified during the Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) will be incorporated as official Coast Guard policy. As you know, the PAWSA study of the Hudson presented no definitive need for the proposed anchorages, but it also left the door open to future such proposals. Like you, we understand that the PAWSA process and federal rulemaking processes should protect not only the public’s interest in safety, but also its interests in the environment, economy, aesthetics, public activities and public health. They should also guarantee transparency and meaningful public involvement in the decision-making process. At the initial PAWSA meetings, many participants raised significant concerns regarding a perceived lack of transparency on the Coast Guard’s part with regard to the issuance of the ANPRM, and noted that the absence of a continuing Coast Guard presence on the Hudson has deprived the agency of critical knowledge about the river, its uses, traffic, and environmental concerns. Coast Guard personnel addressed these matters in a professional manner and made certain verbal commitments concerning future Coast Guard activities and procedures. Working with the Pace University Environmental Policy Clinic, we have enumerated those commitments here, along with our requests to you regarding official agency policy in the future: A commitment to conduct early public outreach before another Hudson River anchorage plan is proposed. We seek your assurance that the Coast Guard will adhere to the procedures in its “Waterways Management (WWM): Anchorage Management Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP)” (CGTTP 3-71.2, July 2015). The process delineated in the WWM for early involvement of stakeholders, port partners, river experts, and interested parties was not executed prior to the June 2016 ANPRM. We believe that much controversy and misunderstanding would have been avoided had the Coast Guard conducted the studies, outreach, public meetings and information sessions the WWM specifies. Additionally, we ask that the Coast Guard conduct a Waterways Analysis and Management System (WAMS) study for the Hudson River above the George Washington Bridge, as also provided for in the WWM. A commitment to maintain a Harbor Safety Committee for the Hudson River north of the George Washington Bridge. We are aware that the Coast Guard has already commenced meetings of a Harbor Safety Committee for the Hudson River north of the George Washington Bridge, and we seek your assurance that the Committee will remain a permanent function of the Coast Guard. As it stands, your agency maintains a significant presence in New York Harbor extending to the George Washington Bridge, but very little presence, and therefore little first-hand awareness of conditions, above the George Washington Bridge to Albany, New York. Further, the Hudson River generally suffers from a lack of the substantial federal agency presence that is commonplace on many other major waterways in the nation. The Coast Guard’s commendable effort in establishing the Hudson River Harbor Safety Committee is a step toward curing that deficiency. A commitment to conduct an Environmental Impact Statement under the National Environmental Policy Act. We request your assurance that any future Hudson River anchorage proposal will receive an agency determination as a Major Federal Action subject to the EIS requirements of NEPA. As you are aware from the more than 10,000 public comments submitted in response to the June 2016 ANPRM, concerns regarding that proposal ran the full gamut of issues that would routinely trigger an EIS pursuant to the NEPA statute, rules and regulations. NEPA affords the best method to measure risk and benefit in a public process governed by requirements of long-established federal law. The Hudson is a river and estuary of national significance. If there is any benefit to the unfortunate controversy generated by the ANPRM, it is the renewed awareness that concern for the Hudson crosses all segments of society, from local towns and businesses to major environmental organizations to everyday river users. We are appreciative of the Coast Guard response to their concerns following the suspension of the anchorage proposal. We trust you share our desire that future decision-making and rule-making will be conducted in a deliberative, transparent and inclusive fashion. We believe that the commitments we request of you here will help assure that will be the case.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will again oppose the partisan GOP Farm Bill, which would make deep cuts to the crop insurance program, eliminate the nation’s largest land conservation program, fail to address the needs of specialty crop farmers in the Hudson Valley, and throw millions of low-income Americans off of the Supplementary Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). The exact same legislation was opposed by a bipartisan majority in May, but through a legislative maneuver, Republicans were able to table the effort and provide an opportunity to revote on the measure. “They did nothing – nothing – to improve this bill for Hudson Valley farmers – they did a backroom deal on immigration and used the Farm Bill as leverage, if this thing gets any more votes this time around, it will be because of that deal,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m not playing that game. The same bill that sucked in May still sucks in June.” Rep. Maloney opposed the Farm Bill in May for a variety of reasons, but some of his largest concerns include: Crop Insurance – The bill provided $12 billion less in funding for the essential crop insurance program than what was provided in the 2014 version of the Farm Bill. Farmers reeling from this year’s deadly storms will rely on the program to recoup crop losses. Specialty Crops – The legislation would eliminate an accountability requirement included in the 2014 Farm Bill which improved outreach to specialty crop growers – like apple and onion farmers in the Hudson Valley. It also eliminates the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program and rolls its mandates into a new market development program with three other existing programs. It repeals the Export Assistance for Specialty Crops program, which helps specialty crop growers sell their products overseas. Young and Beginning farmers – Funding for the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program (BFRDP) would have been frozen at 2014 levels even though the average age of farmers continues to rise and too few new farmers are joining the industry. The bill also fails to permanently reauthorize the BFRPD, a bipartisan priority. Research – The bill failed to provide any new funding for the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research (FFAR), a public-private partnership which invests in agriculture research. In the Hudson Valley, an FFAR-funded research project to combat the Allium leafminer is currently underway. The leafminer is an invasive species of pest which threatens Orange County’s multimillion dollar annual onion crop. Conservation – This Farm Bill would have eliminated America’s largest conservation program, the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP). The program’s existing mandates would be rolled into the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, which would effectively cut conservation funding by $5 billion. SNAP – The bill included billions of dollars in cuts when compared with the 2014 version of the Farm Bill. Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates indicated that participation in the program would drop by millions over the next ten years had the bill passed.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON — In response to the Trump Administration’s ongoing human rights abuses against innocent, asylum-seeking children, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has joined his colleagues to introduce the Keep Families Together Act as an original cosponsor. The legislation would stop the Trump Administration from enforcing its separation policy by prohibiting the removal of a child from their parents or legal guardians within 100 miles of the border and any other ports of entry. “Snatching children from their mothers’ arms and throwing them in cages is child abuse and it has to stop. Now,” said Rep. Maloney. “We’re fighting Trump down here with everything we’ve got – and we won’t stop until these innocent children are reunited with their families – that’s a promise.” The Keep Families Together Act would: Prohibit the removal of a child from their parents or legal guardian at or near the port of entry or within 100 miles of the U.S. border Prohibit family separation for the intent of deterring migration to the US Under the legislation, separations could occur only in the cases that: A State court terminates the rights of the parent/guardian in the best interest of the child An official from a State or county child welfare agency determines separation to be in the best interest of the child The Chief Patrol Agent or Area Port Director finds that the child is a victim of trafficking or abuse, or that there is a high likelihood that the adult is not the parent or guardian Rep. Maloney is also an original cosponsor of the HELP Separated Children Act, which would ensure the humane treatment of children already separated from their families by immigration enforcement authorities. The legislation would guarantee parents of these children have access to information on their children, the ability to stay in contact, and the right to say goodbye to their children before being separated. Last week, the Trump Administration, through the Department of Homeland Security, released a fact sheet highlighting its “zero tolerance” policy regarding its prosecution of families at the border. The policy guarantees that every person illegally crossing the border be prosecuted and that all children whose parents are referred for prosecution are kidnapped and “placed” with the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement. Multiple Trump Administration officials have referred to the policy as a deterrent to illegal immigration.
06.19.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $70,000 to help the Hudson Valley Regional Council strengthen its comprehensive economic development strategy for seven counties throughout the Hudson Valley. The investment, made through the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), will be matched by an equal contribution from the counties. “We need a new vision for getting people back to work and into jobs that pay well and let people maintain a high standard of living,” said Rep. Maloney. “Through this strategic partnership between the EDA and the Hudson Valley Regional Council, we can leverage private investments, create jobs and boost our economy. It’s commonsense and it’s a win-win.” “Hudson Valley Regional Council is so pleased to receive this grant,” said Patricia Pomeroy, Executive Director of Hudson Valley Regional Council. “It will allows us to complete the Regional Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy as well as provide technical assistance to municipalities and entities applying for EDA funding for projects that retain or create jobs. We have been fortunate to have been awarded these funds each year of this three-year cycle and are thankful to the Congressman for his support.” This EDA planning investment supports the development and implementation of a Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) for the region served by the Hudson Valley Regional Council, which includes Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Sullivan, Ulster, and Westchester counties; and the cities of Yonkers, Mount Vernon, Newburgh, Kingston, Poughkeepsie, and Middletown. The CEDS process is designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has helped secure over $7 million in investments from the Economic Development Administration. Shortly after taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney announced a $3.4 million investment to the Culinary Institute of America to support the development of a new workforce development center. Then, in 2014, Rep. Maloney announced another major investment of $2.9 million to redevelop a former brownfield site into a new headquarters for Hudson Valley lighting. He also helped secure a similar, $70,000 award in 2017 for the Hudson Valley Regional Council to continue its efforts to rebuild the Hudson Valley’s economy.
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON — Only weeks after passing two pieces of legislation through the House to help veterans safely transition out of military service and to shore up America’s aging dams, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his legislation to require the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to compile and issue an annual report on online drug sales has passed the House of Representatives as part of the Stop Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017. Rep. Maloney introduced the legislation in February after a half-dozen people in Orange County died of overdoses. Click the link above to see Rep. Maloney deliver remarks in support of his amendment on the House Floor “The fact that we don’t even know the extent of this problem is just crazy to me – this bill will make that right and put another tool in our toolbox to fight this epidemic,” said Rep. Maloney. “People like Stephanie Keegan are the reason I do this – her son got caught up in the world of online drug sales – and it cost him his life. It has to stop.” “Congressman Maloney has been a great partner to the City of Middletown Police Department, working with us on a number of issues related to our fight against the opioid epidemic,” said Middletown Police Chief John Ewanciw. “This legislation is just one more tool for us to utilize as we work at preventing individuals from getting access to deadly narcotics. My agency will continue to put forth the necessary efforts required to identify local suppliers and take them off the streets. This legislation will prevent people from turning to the Internet for their “virtual dealers.” I commend Congressman Maloney for his work on this issue, and look forward to partnering with him on future efforts.” “I lost my son to complications of opioid addiction because he was able to easily get the drugs he wanted online. Congressman Maloney has written this wonderful bill which I am absolutely certain will save lives and I am very grateful to him,” said Stephanie Keegan of Somers. “The Stop Online Opioid Sales Act is a fantastic piece of legislation which addresses the ease with which people can purchase opioids from the comfort of their home.” Federal agencies have not released information on the prevalence of opioid sales online, but in late January, a bipartisan coalition of Senators released a 100-page report indicating that online fentanyl sales from China alone totaled over $800 million. Although this problem is expected to be growing, lawmakers lack the detailed reporting necessary to inform a comprehensive action plan. One of the largest barriers to combating international online sales is U.S. Customs and Border Patrol’s reliance on foreign partners to provide advanced information on shipping data. Many nations are unable to provide this information, and Customs is required to manually inspect suspect packages at only nine facilities throughout the country as a result. The Stop Online Opioid Sales Act would require the DEA to compile a comprehensive report on the sale of drugs online within a year and to continue to issue annual reports containing this information. Reports must include the types and amounts of controlled substance analogues sold online, the name of each entity or person selling them, and an estimate of the revenue being generated through these illegal channels. Understanding the extent of the problem of online drug sales is necessary to inform the direction of federal resources and law enforcement techniques for combating it. Rep. Maloney is a leader in the fight on the heroin and opioid epidemic. He is also the sponsor of the Lifesaving Librarians Act and the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act. His legislation, the Opioid Review Modernization Act, passed into law as part of the 2016 Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. This is the third bill Rep. Maloney has passed through the House in the past three weeks. On May 24th, Rep. Maloney’s bipartisan Know Your Vets Act passed through the House of Representatives as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The provision, introduced alongside Representative Mike Gallagher (R-WI), a former Marine Corps Captain, will help bridge the gap between services provided for active duty servicemembers at the Department of Defense (DoD) and those provided to veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). On June 7, Rep. Maloney’s Dam Safety Reauthorization Act passed through the House. The legislation will prevent a lapse in funding for the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP), which provides support to states like New York in developing Emergency Action Plans (EAPs), public awareness campaigns, the implementation of existing dam safety programs, the purchase of equipment, and dam safety inspections. The Hudson Valley is home to nearly 100 “high-hazard” dams.
06.12.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the appointment of 11 Hudson Valley students to our nation’s service academies after holding a reception with appointees and their families. United States representatives have the authority to nominate students to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. To assist with the nomination process, Rep. Maloney established an esteemed committee of military and civic leaders from the Hudson Valley which interviewed potential nominees, reviewed their applications and made recommendations. The Academies make the final decision on who receives an appointment of admission. “I’m incredibly proud of all of the young people who submitted their applications for appointment to our service academies, and I know that they’ll make the Hudson Valley proud,” said Rep. Maloney. “America’s facing constantly emerging threats and new challenges that must be confronted head-on – we need committed new leaders who can rise to the challenge – I think our appointees are the best people for the job.” United States Military Academy at West Point Noah Daigle, Warwick Michael Jones, Middletown Sydney Smith, West Point Caroline Raymond, Mahopac Eric Kulkarni, Wappingers Falls United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Paul Bechu, Carmel Caroline Johnston, Bedford Corners United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Sam Delacruz, Cornwall on Hudson Christian LoBiondo, Newburgh United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point Rachel Beisswenger, Fishkill Justin Gagnon, Cornwall on Hudson
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump concluded a meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un in Singapore. “This summit was a step in the right direction, but I do have some concerns about suspending our defensive exercises with our ally, South Korea, because we got a nice photo op and a promise from Kim. Any final deal should be a real, enforceable, agreement that holds North Korea to their word without giving away the farm. I’ll believe it when I see it - but the president does deserve credit for backing off his inflammatory rhetoric and initiating this meeting. Diplomacy is rarely a bad thing.”
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his legislation to reauthorize the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP) through 2024 has passed through the House of Representative as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). Without a new authorization, states like New York could lose out on the funding necessary to improve dam safety around dams that threaten human life. “Dam safety may not sound like the most exciting subject, but that perception would change in a hurry if one of our dams in the Hudson Valley failed during a storm and folks lose their homes, their livelihoods, and even their lives,” said Rep. Maloney. “We’re talking about the program that protects our communities from almost a hundred aging dams – we can’t let the funding lapse, and I’ll keep working with folks in the Senate to make sure we get this provision passed into law.” Rep. Maloney introduced and worked to pass similar legislation into law in 2014. That legislation authorized the program through 2019, but to prevent a potential future lapse in funding, he introduced the Dam Safety Reauthorization Act to push the deadline to 2024. Rep. Maloney also wrote a letter to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-IL) requesting that the committee include a “clean” dam safety reauthorization in the base text of the 2018 version of WRRDA to prevent a lapse in authorization for the program. That clean version was included in the bill, which passed the House of Representatives last night. Nearly 100 of the Hudson Valley’s 800 dams are designated as “high hazard,” meaning their failure would result in the loss of life and serious economic damage to the surrounding community. To combat this problem, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) operates the NDSP, which provides support to states like New York in developing Emergency Action Plans (EAPs), public awareness campaigns, the implementation of existing dam safety programs, the purchase of equipment, and dam safety inspections. This is the second bill Rep. Maloney has passed through the House in the last two weeks. On May 24th, Rep. Maloney’s bipartisan Know Your Vets Act passed through the House of Representatives as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The provision, introduced alongside Representative Mike Gallagher (R-WI), a former Marine Corps Captain, will help bridge the gap between services provided for active duty servicemembers at the Department of Defense (DoD) and those provided to veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
06.04.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), a co-chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus and lead author of an amicus brief in support of the Colorado Civil Rights Commission in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the anti-LGBTQ baker. “This is a disappointing decision – there’s no denying it. We wouldn’t allow a hotel to refuse a room to a person because of their race or allow a restaurant to deny service to a couple based on their religion. Those same protections should apply to Americans based on their sexual orientation and gender identity. “Although this doesn’t give businesses the right to discriminate universally, it’s still an indication we need the Equality Act, which would finally extend critical civil rights protections to members of the LGBTQ community. If the courts won’t act affirmatively to protect the constitutional rights of all Americans, Congress should.”
06.01.2018	Hudson Valley Home to Nearly 100 of New York’s Most Dangerous Dams WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has introduced legislation to reauthorize the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP), which establishes partnerships between federal and state agencies to protect lives threatened by dam failures. Rep. Maloney introduced and worked to pass similar legislation into law in 2014 as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). That legislation authorized the program for five years, but without a new authorization states like New York could lose out on critical funding to help them improve dam safety. To prevent a lapse in authorization, Rep. Maloney has introduced legislation to move the expiration to the end of 2024. “People don’t realize how important dam safety is until one fails and destroys the surrounding communities, floods farmlands and people lose their lives,” said Rep. Maloney. “Right here in the Hudson Valley we saw dams at real risk of failure during recent storms. This is something we need to be taking seriously and we have to make responsible investments in the Dam Safety Program to do that.” Nearly 100 of the Hudson Valley’s 800 dams are designated as “high hazard,” meaning their failure would result in the loss of life and serious economic damage to the surrounding community. To combat this problem, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) operates the NDSP, which provides support to states like New York in developing Emergency Action Plans (EAPs), public awareness campaigns, the implementation of existing dam safety programs, the purchase of equipment, and dam safety inspections. Rep. Maloney’s Dam Safety Reauthorization Act extends the authorization for the NDSP through 2024. Rep. Maloney also wrote a letter to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-IL) requesting that the committee include a “clean” dam safety reauthorization in the base text of the 2018 version of WRRDA to prevent a lapse in authorization for the program.
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON — After the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) denied Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló’s request for assistance through the Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) demanded that FEMA Administrator Brock Long reconsider the decision in a letter dated May 28th. The DHAP program was created in the wake of housing failures during Hurricane Katrina and is designed to help Americans with the greatest financial need to find permanent housing, secure employment, and connect to public benefits after a natural disaster. “FEMA’s response to the Governor was a slap in the face to every American in Puerto Rico and their refusal to use the DHAP program is based more in political beliefs than a focus on outcomes,” said Rep. Maloney. “It took the agency five months to get back to the Governor – folks in Texas and Florida got the swift and comprehensive assistance all Americans deserve immediately after Harvey and Irma – but that same level of assistance was not provided to the people of Puerto Rico.” “On behalf of the NLIHC-led Disaster Housing Recovery Coalition and its more than 700 member organizations, I thank Congressman Maloney for calling on FEMA to approve the request made by Puerto Rico Governor Rossello more than five months ago for critical resources to help displaced survivors afford a stable home while they get back on their feet,” said Diane Yentel, president and CEO of the National Low Income Housing Coalition. “It is unacceptable that FEMA continues to refuse to address the housing needs of vulnerable disaster survivors, including the lowest income seniors, people with disabilities, and families with children. We appreciate Rep. Maloney’s leadership in helping to hold FEMA accountable.” The DHAP program was created in response to the myriad emergency response failures associated with the response to Hurricane Katrina, specifically for low-income residents who were displaced from their homes. The DHAP program provides time-limited rental subsidies and case management to households affected by different disasters. The contours of the program change based on the need of local residents and the nature of the disaster affecting them. The DHAP program has been successfully implemented to assist survivors of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav, Ike as well as Superstorm Sandy. On December 14, the Governor of Puerto Rico requested in writing that FEMA implement the DHAP program on the island to help impoverished residents recover from Hurricane Maria. Five months later, FEMA’s Federal Coordinating Officer finally offered a response, which denied the request and mentioned various other programs which had been implemented. After FEMA sent the response, more than 700 affordable housing groups criticized the organization, claiming that the organization is “misleading the public” regarding the importance of DHAP. An original copy of the letter can be found here and the text is available below. Dear Administrator Long, I write you regarding the urgent housing needs facing our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico. I understand that Governor Rosselló has requested Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) support for survivors of Hurricane Maria from FEMA. I also understand that this request was denied. I strongly urge you to reconsider this decision. It is critical that FEMA allow Puerto Rico to access DHAP so that thousands of Americans have the simple security provided by having a roof over their head. Puerto Rico is still at the early stages of recovering from the effects of Hurricane Maria after it hit the island on September 20. Since then, I have personally visited the island and spoken with Governor Rosselló multiple times. He has told me repeatedly that Puerto Rico still doesn’t have the resources it needs to rebuild its power grid, let alone repair and rebuild housing. It has taken far too long to get Puerto Rico the support it needs, and scandals like the selection of contractor Bronze Star to furnish plastic tarps and sheeting have further delayed necessary aid. The response following Hurricane Maria has been unacceptable and has left millions of Americans without electricity, water, food, and roofs over their heads. Puerto Rico is home to over three million Americans who contribute to our national economy and have family members across the continental United States, many of whom are in New York’s 18th district. No American should have to struggle to find housing, especially after a disaster – and especially when there are programs that were created specifically to alleviate suffering in such situations. The DHAP is a necessary and immediate solution to the housing needs now faced by thousands of Puerto Rican families. The rental assistance and case management services it would provide for survivors of the disaster would offer them the stability needed to secure employment and access other public benefits as they rebuild their lives. I request that you allow survivors of Hurricane Maria to access the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Disaster Housing Assistance Program immediately. Thank you for your attention to this issue. Please contact my Washington, D.C. office if there is any additional information I can provide.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has successfully passed another legislative provision through the House of Representatives to benefit our veterans as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The amendment, introduced alongside Representative Mike Gallagher (R-WI), a former Marine Corps Captain, will help bridge the gap between services provided for active duty servicemembers at the Department of Defense (DoD) and those provided to veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “If you’re active duty and you’re dealing with PTSD or substance abuse, you’ve got resources through the DoD to help you – and you’ve also got resources at the VA when you transition out of the military – but there’s a gap between the two,” said Rep. Maloney. “Veterans like Daniel Keegan from the Hudson Valley sometimes get trapped in that gap and can’t get out. We have to keep our promise to care for our veterans and that means seeing them right through their transition out of service and back into civilian life.” “Having served two back to back deployments in Iraq, I know firsthand that the transition from military to civilian life can be difficult,” said Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI). “In my district in Northeast Wisconsin, I’ve had numerous veterans reach out to me about their own difficulties in getting re-established back into the community. Our amendment aims to connect veterans with local resources in their communities so that they have, and know where to find, all the tools they need to successfully navigate civilian life.” “I am so pleased that this amendment provides for an easier connection between the veteran community and the resources that they need,” said Stephanie Keegan, mother of Daniel Keegan, a veteran who passed away after transitioning out of the military. “I am certain it will go a long way towards easing the transition process for veterans returning to civilian life.” Rep. Maloney introduced The Know Your Vets Act as a standalone bill in November of 2017 after hearing concerns from Nelson Rivera, the former Director of the Dutchess County Veterans Service Agency. Veterans Service Officers (VSOs), like Nelson, are available to assist new veterans during the transition out of military service, but VSOs have no way of knowing that a recently-discharged veteran has returned home or moved to their community. The transition from the military can be a difficult time for veterans. Some veterans struggle with finding a good job, adjusting to family life, or just feeling at home in the civilian world. Some even battle mental health issues or substance abuse. Without being notified about newly-discharged veterans in their area VSOs must wait for a veteran to contact them, which can be a barrier to the provision of services. Rep. Maloney worked alongside Rivera and Stephanie Keegan, the mother of Daniel Keegan who died shortly after he transitioned out of the military and was awaiting assistance from the VA. Daniel’s mother, Stephanie, believes that the tragedy could have been avoided if Daniel had help navigating the process and connecting with a local official, like a VSO. The legislation would give veterans the option of having their final certificate of discharge paperwork, also known as a DD-214 form, sent to a county VSO based on the location of their retirement from service. This notification will allow VSOs to proactively reach out to offer assistance and ensure the new veteran has a smooth transition back to civilian life. Last year, three legislative items Rep. Maloney introduced were passed into law as part of the NDAA. The Investing in Testing Act requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a five-year, $7 million federal study into the long-term health effects of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) exposure. That legislation was written in response to water contamination in the city of Newburgh. Rep. Maloney also worked to pass the Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act into law, which requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to provide clear protections for servicemembers from predatory debt collection practices. Finally, Rep. Maloney worked to pass the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has successfully introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), also known as “the defense bill,” to help veterans by smoothing their transition from military service to the civilian world. Rep. Maloney originally introduced the legislation as a standalone bill called the Know Your Vets Act after working alongside his Veterans Advisory Board and Representative Mike Gallagher (R-WI), a former Captain in the United States Marine Corps. “Veterans tell me the transition out of service can be rocky, so we need to do everything we can to help smooth that out and help new veterans reacclimate to the civilian world,” said Rep. Maloney. “This provision is simple, it’s commonsense, and it’s bipartisan – I have high hopes that we can get it passed into law, and I’ll keep working with Congressman Gallagher to make sure we do.” Rep. Maloney introduced The Know Your Vets Act as a standalone bill in November of 2017 after hearing concerns from Nelson Rivera, the former Director of the Dutchess County Veterans Service Agency. Veterans Service Officers (VSOs), like Nelson, are available to assist new veterans during the transition out of military service, but VSOs have no way of knowing that a recently discharged veteran has returned home or moved to their community. The transition from the military can be a difficult time for veterans. Some veterans struggle with finding a good job, adjusting to family life, or just feeling at home in the civilian world. Some even battle mental health issues or substance abuse. Without being notified about newly discharged veterans in their area VSOs must wait for a veteran to contact them, which can be a barrier to the provision of services. Rep. Maloney’s legislation would give veterans the option of having their final certificate of discharge paperwork, also known as a DD-214 form, sent to a county VSO based on the location of their retirement from service. This notification will allow VSOs to proactively reach out to offer assistance and ensure the new veteran has a smooth transition back to civilian life. Rep. Maloney worked alongside Nelson Rivera and Stephanie Keegan, the mother of Daniel Keegan, a veteran who died shortly after he transitioned out of the military to write the Know Your Vets Act. He then worked to introduce the legislation alongside Rep. Gallagher. Rep. Maloney attempted to introduce three additional pieces of legislation to the defense bill, but they were not ruled in order. The Rules Committee considered nearly 600 amendments to the NDAA, but fewer than 300 were made in order. Last year, three legislative items Rep. Maloney introduced were passed into law as part of the NDAA. The Investing in Testing Act requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a five-year, $7 million federal study into the long-term health effects of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) exposure. That legislation was written in response to water contamination in the city of Newburgh. Rep. Maloney also worked to pass the Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act into law, which requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to provide clear protections for servicemembers from predatory debt collection practices. Finally, Rep. Maloney worked to pass the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act.
05.21.2018	Municipal Water Supply in Maloney’s District Contaminated with PFOS Newburgh, NY – After news reports revealed that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt and other administration officials conspired to cover up the results of a study on the health effects of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) exposure, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) demanded that the EPA and Department of Health and Human Services immediately release the results of the study. Newburgh, New York, in Rep. Maloney’s district, experienced water contamination which originated at Stewart Air National Guard Base, and as a result, blood tests conducted by the New York State Department of Health revealed Newburgh residents had higher PFOS levels in their blood than the national average. “I don’t give a damn about the EPA Administrator’s public relations concerns here, I’ve got people back home wondering whether or not they need to be worried about the PFOS in their blood,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s not enough to mislead the taxpayers, now they’re willing to withhold critical health information for personal and political reasons – it’s completely unacceptable.” In May of 2016, abnormally and unacceptably high levels of PFOS and PFOA were found in Newburgh’s water supply. Since the discovery, Rep. Maloney has worked to secure blood testing, pressured the EPA to provide immediate material assistance, and attempted to force the Department of Defense (DoD) to remediate the issue. On May 19, 2016, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water after the agency had relied on a provisional advisory since 2009. Less than a week later, the EPA released a full health advisory. Rep. Maloney’s Investing in Testing Act was signed into law as part of a larger bill in December, 2017. The provision requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a five-year, $7 million federal study into the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA exposure. Rep. Maloney originally introduced the legislation in October of 2016, and reintroduced the bill in February of 2017 in response to water contamination concerns in Newburgh. The full text of the letter is available below and an original copy is available here. Administrator Pruitt: I’m writing today to request that you immediately cease your efforts to suppress a report prepared by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) regarding the health effects of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA). This report should be immediately released to the taxpayers who funded the study and rely on its results to maintain their health. My constituents in New York’s Hudson Valley are directly affected by the findings of this report, as PFOS was discovered in significant quantities in the water supply of the City of Newburgh in my district. In 2016, it was discovered that runoff from Stewart Air National Guard Base contaminated the groundwater that eventually flowed into the municipal water supply. Since the contamination was detected, the State of New York offered free blood testing to affected residents. The testing found that PFOS levels in the blood of Newburgh residents are higher than the national average. I was successful in passing legislation into law to require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a five-year study into the long-term health effects of PFOS exposure. But as that study is conducted, my constituents and I have great interest in the results of the ATSDR report. The people I represent are understandably concerned about their health since the contamination was detected. Given that this report can shed light on the health impacts of exposure to PFOS, it must be released immediately. In addition to being the right thing to do, it is your legal responsibility to release this report to the American people. I look forward to your prompt reply.
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) voted against the Republican Farm Bill today, objecting to a wide variety of cuts and programmatic changes which failed to adequately address the needs of Hudson Valley Farmers. H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, also known as the 2018 Farm Bill reauthorizes and amends all programs directed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and is typically passed with broad, bipartisan support every five years. Rep. Maloney also led the final effort by Democrats to make bipartisan improvements to the bill which would be beneficial to Hudson Valley farmers and rural communities. The bill ultimately failed to pass on a vote of 198-213. Click here to Watch Rep. Maloney Lead Final Effort to Fix Partisan Farm Bill “I was proud to be part of the bipartisan team that wrote the last version of the Farm Bill in 2014. But I’m disappointed to say that we almost followed the best-ever Farm Bill for the Hudson Valley with the worst-ever Farm Bill for the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “Just a couple days ago we got hit with storms that destroyed acres and acres of crops. Days later, the U.S. Congress proposed to respond to millions of dollars in crop losses with billions of dollars in crop insurance cuts. That’s a kick in the teeth to every farmer I represent. But it doesn’t stop at crop insurance – this version of the bill would have eliminated America’s largest conservation program and done too little to help small, diverse family farms. It wouldn’t have added a penny to the very research foundation that’s funding our local efforts to fight the Allium leafminer and it didn’t invest enough in efforts to support young and beginning farmers. It also went after folks who rely on SNAP. This thing was a raw deal all around and there’s just no way I could have supported it.” Rep. Maloney secured a litany of key priorities for the Hudson Valley in the 2014 version of the Farm Bill, which received broad bipartisan support. Rep. Maloney has served the Hudson Valley on the Committee on Agriculture since being elected to Congress in 2013. In October 2017, Rep. Maloney met with his Agriculture Advisory Board to plan his priorities for the 2018 Farm Bill. He also met with local hunger experts in February, 2018, as much of the Farm Bill focuses on the provision of nutrition assistance. Some of Representative Maloney’s greatest concerns with the partisan 2018 Farm Bill include: Crop Insurance – The bill provided $12 billion less in funding for the essential crop insurance program than what was provided in the 2014 version of the Farm Bill. Farmers reeling from this week’s deadly storms will rely on the program to recoup crop losses. Specialty Crops – The legislation would eliminate an accountability requirement included in the 2014 Farm Bill which improved outreach to specialty crop growers – like apple and onion farmers in the Hudson Valley. It also eliminates the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program and rolls its mandates into a new market development program with three other existing programs. It repeals the Export Assistance for Specialty Crops program, which helps specialty crop growers sell their products overseas. Young and Beginning farmers – Funding for the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program (BFRDP) would have been frozen at 2014 levels even though the average age of farmers continues to rise and too few new farmers are joining the industry. The bill also fails to permanently reauthorize the BFRPD, a bipartisan priority. Research – The bill failed to provide any new funding for the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research (FFAR), a public-private partnership which invests in agriculture research. In the Hudson Valley, an FFAR-funded research project to combat the Allium leafminer is currently underway. The leafminer is an invasive species of pest which threatens Orange County’s multimillion dollar annual onion crop. Conservation – This Farm Bill would have eliminated America’s largest conservation program, the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP). The program’s existing mandates would be rolled into the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, which would effectively cut conservation funding by $5 billion. SNAP – The bill included billions of dollars in cuts when compared with the 2014 version of the Farm Bill. Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates indicated that participation in the program would drop by millions over the next ten years had the bill passed.
05.17.2018	Newburgh, NY — In response to the deadly storms which left tens of thousands of Hudson Valley residents without power, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he would establish two satellite locations in the City of Newburgh to assist local residents. The satellite offices, located at Hudson Valley RECAP and Cornerstone Family Healthcare, will offer food and water, as well as additional assistance to people who need help with federal or state agencies. Like much of the City of Newburgh, Rep. Maloney’s district office is without power, and constituents are encouraged to call his Washington, D.C. office. “After Sandy and Irene, the Hudson Valley pulled together – and we’re going to do the same thing after these tornadoes – I want my office to be part of that effort, and we’re here to help,” said Rep. Maloney. “Whether it’s basic necessities like food and water – or helping small businesses and farmers get help – we’ve got your back.” Satellite offices are available at the following locations: Hudson Valley RECAP 201 Broadway, Newburgh, NY 12550 Cornerstone Family Healthcare 147 Lake Street, Newburgh, NY 12550 Rep. Maloney’s staff have also been in touch with local and state officials, as well as the relevant utility companies in the Hudson Valley since the storm wreaked havoc on the area. Yesterday, his office compiled a resource guide to ensure people have the information they need to stay up to date on developments regarding the restoration of power. Like much of the City of Newburgh, Rep. Maloney’s district office remains without power. All constituents who need assistance directly from the Congressman’s office are advised to call his Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-5441 or to visit one of the two satellite office locations. These locations will remain open until power is restored to Rep. Maloney’s district office.
05.16.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to intense storms which struck the Hudson Valley on May 15 and resulted in the death of an 11-year old girl in Newburgh. “My heart goes out to the family in Newburgh who lost their 11-year old and everyone else who has had to suffer through this terrible experience. As a father I can’t imagine the pain that this family has had to endure,” said Rep. Maloney. “My office is here to help folks who need a hand and anyone in need of assistance should reach out to my office in Washington.” Rep. Maloney’s staff have been in touch with local and state officials, as well as the relevant utility companies in the Hudson Valley since the storm wreaked havoc on the area. His office has also compiled a resource guide to ensure people have the information they need to stay up to date on developments regarding the restoration of power. The storm knocked out power at Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh office, so all constituents who need assistance directly from the Congressman’s office are advised to call his Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-5441.
05.15.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his office has now returned $16,120,149 to veterans, older Americans, small businesses, and families who were owed payments by the federal government. Since taking office, Rep. Maloney’s constituent advocates have assisted over 5,000 individual Hudson Valley residents with cases involving the Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). “Part of my job is going to bat for people in the Hudson Valley who’re having a hard time with the federal bureaucracy,” said Rep. Maloney. “I get paid to do this and I hope that anyone who’s having trouble with red tape gives us a call – it’s what we’re here for.” “I am a disabled retired law enforcement supervisor. After my disability progressed to the point that I could not work anymore, I retired from a career I loved and started the process of filing for Social Security Disability, but little did I know the process was as arduous as it was,” said retired law enforcement supervisor Jeffrey Long. “I went through every proper process and was getting nowhere. After 1100 days I gave up hope and then I called the office of Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney. I am grateful to say my prayers were answered. Rep. Maloney’s staff guided me through the system with diligence and kindness. His office was able to achieve in a short amount of time more results than my attorney did in years. Congressman Maloney and his office exemplify the courteous professionalism that people deserve from their elected officials.” “I had been dealing with the VA for a period of nine years when I contacted Congressman Maloney’s office for assistance,” said veteran and former police officer William Doyle, “His staff must have superpowers because they accomplished in one month what I couldn’t do in nine years.” “Recently, I sought answers regarding a Social Security matter for my disabled sister. From the very first phone conversation, Rep. Maloney’s staff followed through to the conclusion,” said former Fishkill Town Supervisor Joan Pagones, “As a retired Town Supervisor for over 20 years and as a Clerk of the Legislature in Dutchess County, I know public service. Rep. Maloney’s staff are a testament to his. And yes, I am a Republican.” “My dad proudly served his country in WWII. He was part of an effort to maintain our country’s democracy and continued freedom,” said Carol Reed, daughter of WWII Veteran Alfred Beairsto, who was struggling to obtain tens of thousands of dollars in VA benefits. “Rep. Maloney’s office’s efforts on his behalf displayed respect for his service. Rep. Maloney’s continued care for our veterans is commendable. Our Congressional District is fortunate to have him and his entire staff working hard for our veterans and all constituents.” Rep. Maloney’s office has returned $7,268,394 to veterans and $8,851,755 to other residents who had issues with receiving federal payments. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has also introduced and passed 29 pieces of legislation into law.
05.09.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) will invest $35,000 in two Hudson Valley organizations, including $15,000 for the Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts and $20,000 for the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival (HVSF). “Supporting the arts is a great example of where we can do a lot of good with a small investment,” said Rep. Maloney. “Both of these festivals attract thousands of tourists to the region every year and bring in a ton of economic activity – that’s a win for everyone and it’s well worth the investment.” "All of us at the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival are incredibly grateful to the National Endowment for the Arts in recognizing and generously supporting our free, community engagement production of RIP VAN WINKLE; OR, CUT THE OLD MOON INTO STARS,” said Katie Liberman, Managing Director of HVSF. “We are honored and thankful for all that Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney has done to advocate on our behalf in Washington." “Caramoor is grateful to be supported and recognized by the NEA as one of the leading cultural destinations in the country,” said Jeffrey P. Haydon, CEO of Caramoor. “We extend our thanks to Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for his continued support of Caramoor and the arts.” Nationally, the NEA is investing more than $87 million in nonprofit organizations. Since being elected to Congress, Rep. Maloney has announced more than $150,000 in NEA investments for several Hudson Valley arts organizations. NEA grants have a powerful multiplying effect, with each grant dollar typically matched by nine dollars of additional investments in nonprofit arts organizations.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Trump elected not to waive sanctions on Iran, effectively terminating the United States’ participation in the Iran Nuclear Agreement, which has prevented Iran from developing nuclear weapons since 2015. “Iran is a real danger to the United States and to the region and we must never let them get their hands on nuclear weapons. My only priority when looking at this deal is whether or not it keeps America and our allies safe from a nuclear-armed Iran. All the evidence we have indicates that it has. And the proof’s in the pudding – three years ago they were mere months away from having a nuclear weapon and today they have no nuclear weapons capacity. “Sure, the deal’s not perfect – I’ve said that since it was brokered – but you don’t have to end the deal to strengthen it. If we scrap the deal, abandon our NATO allies, and the Iranians start racing towards a nuclear weapon, we could easily find ourselves in another ground war in the Middle East. I’d feel better if I knew what the president’s plan was for that scenario. I don’t think he’s thought about it.” The 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), also known as the Iran Nuclear Agreement, provided targeted sanctions relief on Iran in exchange for the country’s agreement to abandon its nuclear program and submit to frequent inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The president is required to “recertify” the deal every 90 days. The president must also choose to continue waiving sanctions on Iran, or they will be automatically reimposed. In November 2017, the last time the deal was up for recertification, President Trump elected not to recertify the agreement, but continued to waive sanctions.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman resigned amid accusations that he physically assaulted four women. “These allegations are horrific and inconsistent with the increasingly important job of New York Attorney General. New Yorkers should be able to count on the fact that the highest law enforcement official in our state does not engage in this type of conduct. Survivors of abuse are telling their stories, and it’s time for us to listen.”
05.07.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) praised the passage of legislation he cosponsored to rename a post office in Saugerties after former Rep. Maurice Hinchey. The bill passed in the House of Representatives on a unanimous vote, and will proceed to the Senate for approval. “Maurice Hinchey was a legend in the Hudson Valley and beyond – he deserves this recognition and more for his years of admirable service to the people of New York,” said Rep. Maloney. “I was proud to know Maurice and to call him a mentor and a friend. It was my honor to do my part in supporting this bill.” The bill would rename the post office in Saugerties as the Maurice D. Hinchey Post Office Building. Rep. Hinchey was a native of Saugerties and served the Hudson Valley in Congress for ten years, passing away in November 2017. After his passing, Rep. Maloney honored Rep. Hinchey in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. He also announced legislation in March which would add Rep. Hinchey’s name to the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area, a conservation and historical area that the former Congressman was responsible for creating.
05.04.2018	Newburgh, NY – After holding a reception to celebrate the achievements of local artists and their families, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. This year’s grand prize winner is Theresa Bailey of S.S. Seward Institute in Florida, New York for her work “Grace.” “Theresa’s work is incredibly impressive and I look forward to showing it off to my colleagues in Washington,” said Rep. Maloney. “I want to thank all of the students that submitted their work as well – every piece we received was great.” Theresa will attend SUNY Orange this fall and will major in business to pursue her dream of opening her own business. She is vice president of S.S. Seward’s chapter of the National Honor Society, vice president of the Art Club, and she ranks third in her graduating class. During her four years in high school she has played soccer and basketball. She is also an active member of her church community. In March, Rep. Maloney invited high school students to submit their original works of art for the competition. This year, 21 students submitted pieces. The work, “Grace,” submitted by Theresa Bailey will be displayed for a year on the grounds of the Capitol Complex in Washington, D.C. All of the other works of art will be displayed in Representative Maloney’s Newburgh office, and will remain in the Congressional Art Competition 2018 album on his Facebook page. Grand Prize Winner “Grace” by Theresa Bailey, S.S. Seward Institute, Florida, NY Facebook Fan Favorite “Dazed Perception” by Tiana Liggio, Monroe-Woodbury High School, Central Valley, NY Runner-up “The Extinct Short-Faced Bear” by Dhruv Franklin, Byram Hills High School, Armonk, NY Since 1982, hundreds of thousands of students from across the country have participated in the competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which encourages Members of Congress to recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. The grand prize winning artist will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception. More information on the competition can be found here.
05.03.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will hold his 80th and 81st town halls since taking office this weekend in Deerpark and Monroe. Rep. Maloney has held “Speak with Sean” town halls and neighborhood office hours events in every corner of his Hudson Valley district, starting in 2013 when he first began serving the area in Congress. These events give constituents the opportunity to ask questions and make their voices heard on issues they care about. “Being responsive to the people I work for is my job – I get paid to do this,” said Rep. Maloney. “I look forward to hearing from folks in western and southern Orange County this weekend, especially since we’ve got a partisan Farm Bill being debated down in Washington, and it’s bad news for Hudson Valley farmers.” Rep. Maloney has also held 31 telephone town halls since taking office, including one just last week. Rep. Maloney has introduced and passed 29 pieces of legislation into law, including four in the 115th Congress. His office has also worked to return over $15 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed payments by the federal government. In addition to posting “Speak with Sean” information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information will be made public on his social media accounts. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email invitation and many constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event being held in their area. Information on the town halls this weekend is available below. Deerpark Town Hall/Neighborhood Office Hours Saturday, May 5, 2018 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Deerpark Senior Center, 410 Route 209, Huguenot, NY 12746 Monroe Town Hall/Neighborhood Office Hours Saturday, May 5, 2018 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM The Playhouse at Museum Village Theater, 1010 Route 17M, Monroe, NY, 10950
05.03.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after State Senator William J. Larkin announced that he will retire at the end of his term after serving in the New York State Legislature for over 40 years. “If you’re truly lucky, in the course of a public career you meet a few precious people who make the journey more joyful, more fun. Sometimes they are not a member of your own generation or even in your own political party. “Bill Larkin is one of the most honorable people I’ve ever met. He’s dedicated his entire adult life to the service of others – from the tropical islands of the South Pacific and snow-capped mountains of Korea – to the halls of the state capitol in Albany. Senator Larkin is a noble statesman and a happy warrior. “Public servants like Bill Larkin shine brightly and light the way for cooperation and friendship even in an era when those essential values are vanishing. Because of his decency and warmth, we became true friends and partners in serving our neighbors. I’ll always be proud of that partnership. Senator Larkin has made an impact on every community he represents and his legacy will last for a century. “Randy and I wish Bill, his wonderful wife Pat, and their children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren all the best in this world.”
05.03.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of more than $2.2 million for Head Start of Eastern Orange County, Inc. This investment will support Early Learning and Head Start programs that provide education and development services for low-income children. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has announced more than $8.5 million in federal Health and Human Services (HHS) investments for Head Start programs in Orange County alone. “Kids in the Hudson Valley need a strong academic foundation and making responsible investments in education is the best way to ensure they get it,” said Rep. Maloney. “Kids who get the opportunity to learn and grow in Head Start and other early childhood education programs are better equipped to succeed, and I’m proud to announce this key investment.” “We are very excited to continue operating Head Start and providing high quality early childhood education services and family support,” said Ann Pagliaro, Executive Director of Head Start of Eastern Orange County. “We are grateful to Congressman Maloney for his support of Head Start and the residents of the greater Newburgh Community.” This federal investment builds upon previous awards that Rep. Maloney secured for Head Start programs in Orange County. In 2016, Rep. Maloney helped secure over $4.2 million in federal funding and in 2017, he helped secure over $2.2 million. Rep. Maloney also secured a $1.7 million grant for the Regional Economic Community Action Program (RECAP), which totals over $3 million secured in the past three years for RECAP. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured a total of over $8.5 million for Head Start programs in Orange County. Together, these awards will continue to provide families across the Hudson Valley with the resources needed to provide education and development services for children and families. Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide comprehensive child development programs for children from birth to age five, pregnant women, and families. The programs focus on preparing children for school. Head Start of Eastern Orange County is a non-profit organization which provides education to more than 300 children in the Hudson Valley and employs more than 40 full-time staff. Their mission is to provide the highest quality program to meet the health, education, and social supports of children and families so that they can be successful in school and in life.
05.01.2018	Cornwall, NY – After working alongside Korean War veteran and prisoner of war (POW) Corporal Raymond Mellin of Cornwall, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the Never Forgotten Korean War POW Act to retroactively eliminate a unique and arbitrary three-month limit on combat pay eligibility for Korean War POWs. The Combat Duty Pay Act of 1952 established combat pay for the United States military, but conditions of the law did not allow Korean War POWs to be paid for more than three months of their time being held in enemy prisons. “Corporal Ray Mellin was a POW for 37 months, but his time in an enemy prison wasn’t recognized in the way it should have been and it’s about a lot more than just the money,” said Rep. Maloney. “The Korean War is often called “the forgotten war,” but my bill aims to ensure we don’t forget those who served and sacrificed – sometimes the little things say a lot, and I’m hoping my bill will honor these veterans in the way they deserve to be honored.” “My fervent wish is to have this injustice made right, not for the monetary reasons, but to honor the remaining few Korean War POWs,” said Korean War POW Corporal Raymond Mellin. “I’m very thrilled that the Congressman is pursuing this.” “Corporal Raymond Mellin is a hero and deserves to be fairly compensated for his time as a POW,” said New York State Assemblyman James Skoufis. “I’m grateful for Congressman Maloney’s focus on making sure veterans like Corporal Mellin get their long-overdue payment for their service.” “Knowing the many sacrifices that our Veterans make, I am very pleased that Ray Mellin and Congressman Maloney have taken steps to rectify an oversight that occurred at the end of the Korean War to now honor our POWs of the conflict who deserve this recognition for their brave service under extreme and hazardous conditions,” said Cornwall Town Supervisor Dick Randazzo. “Sadly, it often takes the actions of elected officials to obtain the fair and just compensation due our veterans,” said Director of the Orange County Veterans Service Agency Christian Farrell. “I commend Congressman Maloney for taking up the fight to right a wrong that took place nearly 70 years ago.” The issue of underpayment was brought to Rep. Maloney’s attention by Cornwall resident and Korean War POW Corporal Raymond Mellin. Corporal Mellin was held in a Korean prison for 37 months during the war but only received combat pay for three months. The Combat Duty Pay Act of 1952 established expanded payment parameters for members of the armed services who met certain criteria. Although POWs from the Korean War did qualify for combat pay, the law instituted a three-month limit on their eligibility. The Never Forgotten Korean War POW Act would simply strike the language which includes the limit and adjust the rate of pay to be consistent with inflation. Since joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney has introduced and passed eight pieces of veterans legislation into law. Many of these bills seek to aid service members who were injured during their service, including the Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act, the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act, and the Appropriate Care for Veterans Act. His office has also cut through red tape to return over $7 million in earned benefits to nearly 1,300 Hudson Valley veterans.
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that two provisions he authored had passed the House of Representatives as part of the Federal Aviation (FAA) Authorization Act of 2018. The first provision would require the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to investigate a questionable contractor, Florida-based Bronze Star, which failed to deliver $30 million worth of supplies during Hurricane Maria. The second provision would require airlines to upgrade the contents of emergency medical kits, which have not been updated for nearly 20 years, to include appropriately-sized doses of medication for children. Bronze Star Contract After news reports revealed that a two-month old company with no prior experience was awarded a $30 million dollar contract to provide tarps and plastic sheeting to victims of Hurricane Maria, Rep. Maloney introduced a provision to conduct a formal audit of the contracting process. The company, Bronze Star LLC, failed to deliver on the contract, leaving tens of thousands of Americans in Puerto Rico without aid supplies necessary to keep homes dry as repairs were made. “We had thousands and thousands of Americans who went without the help they needed because these guys had no idea what they were doing and apparently it’s the wild west down at FEMA,” said Rep. Maloney. “Every minute counts during emergencies and we’re talking about the potential misuse of $30 million in taxpayer money – we need to figure out what happened, and make sure it never happens again.” Bronze Star, a Florida-based contractor that was founded in August 2017, received a FEMA contract in October 2017 to supply 500,000 plastic tarps and 60,000 rolls of plastic sheeting to Americans in Puerto Rico reeling from Hurricane Maria. These materials are used to temporarily patch holes in roofs and walls caused by hurricane damage, and designed to keep homes dry until permanent repairs can be made. Bronze Star was only two months old at the time the contract was awarded, had no history of fulfilling government contracts, and was headquartered at a single-family private residence in Florida. Unsurprisingly, the company failed to deliver on the contract. Rep. Maloney’s provision was initially included in the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2017, which passed unanimously through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee during the bill’s mark-up in November 2017. The provision requires the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security to begin an audit of the Bronze Star contract within 30 days and issue a report to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, as well as the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs within 270 days. The audit must consider the contracting and evaluation process, accountability requirements, and how the contract cancellation affected the provision of supplies to people in need in Puerto Rico. Airline Kids in Transit Safety (KiTS) Act The Airline Kids in Transit Safety (KiTS) Act would modernize FAA regulations to protect children on commercial airlines. Airplanes are currently not required to carry child-sized doses of emergency medicine or medical devices onboard passenger aircrafts. The KiTS Act would require the FAA to update these regulations within a year. Rep. Maloney first introduced the legislation in 2015 alongside former Republican Rep. Richard Hanna, and again in 2017 with Rep. John Faso (NY-19). “Most people don’t know that if their kid has a medical problem on a plane that airlines are under no obligation to carry right-sized equipment or medication to care for them, and I think that would scare a lot of people,” said Rep. Maloney. “Parents should be able to fly with peace of mind – and that means airlines should be equipped to handle medical emergencies for all of their passengers – regardless of age.” “This is common-sense legislation everyone can support,” said Rep. Faso. “Airlines should equip their fleets with life-saving medical supplies that meet the specific needs of children. I’m pleased to see strong third-party support for this positive change. An airline should never be unprepared or ill-equipped, especially at 30,000 feet in the air.” “When a family boards a commercial flight, the last thing on their minds should be what would happen should their child experience an in-flight medical emergency, like a seizure, asthma attack, or allergic reaction,” said American Academy of Pediatrics President Colleen Kraft, MD, MBA, FAAP. “Currently, the emergency medical kits on airplanes are not equipped to meet children’s unique needs; the Airplane Kids in Transit Safety (KITS) Act would fix that. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) thanks Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (D-N.Y.) and John J. Faso (R-N.Y.) for authoring and championing the Airplane KITS Act as part of the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill and urges the U.S. Senate to take up and pass a similar provision without delay.” With more Americans traveling by air than ever before, adult travelers can generally feel safe knowing that, in the case of a medical emergency, a well-trained flight crew will have the medical equipment necessary to treat them. But shockingly, the Emergency Medical Kits (EMKs) required on commercial flights are woefully inadequate for treating the most vulnerable passengers. Given the vulnerability of infants, children and adolescents during medical emergencies, the FAA should update their outdated regulations on the contents of EMKs. The Airplane KiTS Act would specifically require the FAA, within one year of enactment, to initiate a rulemaking to update the requirements for EMKs to ensure that they contain appropriate medication and equipment to meet the emergency needs of children. The bill has been endorsed by the American Association of Pediatrics.
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON –Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) urged his neighbors in the Hudson Valley to participate in National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day this Saturday, a nationwide initiative which encourages Americans to turn in any unused or expired medications to safe disposal locations. Rep. Maloney has compiled a comprehensive guide to help Hudson Valley residents find safe disposal locations in their communities. “The heroin and opioid epidemic is killing our kids and devastating our communities – and too often it starts right in in our own medicine cabinets with unused or expired drugs,” said Rep. Maloney. “Disposing of prescription drugs safely and securely, and making permanent collection boxes available year-round, is a smart step toward preventing the cycle of drug abuse, and keeping our kids and our communities safe – I encourage all of my neighbors to dispose of their unused meds safely.” Rep. Maloney continues to fight for Hudson Valley families affected by this epidemic and successfully passed the Opioid Review and Modernization Act, which helps educate well-meaning doctors about the potential dangers of over-prescribing and was a co-sponsor to the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), passed into law in March of 2016, which helps communities facing prescription drug epidemics to expand prevention and education efforts, increase the availability of antidotes, and promote treatment and recovery. He has also introduced several pieces of legislation including the Lifesaving Librarians Act, the Stop Online Opioid Sales Act, the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act, and the Opioid Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act. That is in addition to securing over a million dollars in federal investments to aid Hudson Valley opioid and substance abuse initiatives. The Hudson Valley has dozens of locations available for anyone who has unwanted or unused prescription drugs that they wish to drop off. A full list of those locations can be found here. ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON —Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) delivered more than 200 letters on gun violence in schools from Hudson Valley students to House Speaker Paul Ryan. Rep. Maloney launched the campaign following the shooting in Parkland, Florida and the formation of a new student movement against gun violence. The campaign invited Hudson Valley students to voice their concerns, offer suggestions, and ask questions about the status of gun safety efforts in Congress. “Students across the country are leading the national conversation on gun violence in our schools – their voices should be heard,” said Rep. Maloney. “I hope Speaker Ryan reads through these comments to better understand where our students are coming from.” Rep. Maloney received more than 200 letters from students on both sides of the debate from each of the counties he represents: Dutchess, Putnam, Orange, and Westchester. Students ranged in age from 6th grade through seniors in college. Rep. Maloney supports strong federal efforts to combat the gun violence epidemic, including: banning assault weapons, raising the purchasing age, improving the National Instant Background Check System (NICS), implementing universal background checks and closing the gun show loophole, as well as repealing the Dickey Amendment, which has prevented research on gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). A copy of Rep. Maloney’s letter to Speaker Ryan is available here and can be found below: The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, United States Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Speaker Ryan, I write today to draw your attention to the hundreds of letters sent by students in my district who are concerned about gun violence in schools. These young people took the time to express their opinions, and I hope you will give them due consideration. As the Majority continues to refuse to bring up legislation to tackle the gun violence epidemic, I ask you to consider the damaging impacts this has on people – especially students – across the country, including in my district in New York’s Hudson Valley. There is no doubt that millions of students nationwide have similar stories – including kids in your district. Mr. Speaker, I hope you will take the time to read the personal stories of the students in my district who wrote to express their concerns and offer solutions. No one understands the issue of school gun violence quite as intimately as they do. If you really are committed to improving their safety and the safety of students in this country, you must take real, legislative action on the gun violence epidemic. ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), released the following statement after French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a speech to a joint session of Congress. “President Macron reminded America that the world needs us to be a strong leader on the global stage. Whether it’s leading the way in the battle on climate change – or preventing bad actors from acquiring nuclear weapons – America should be on the front lines. We’re a nation built on big ideas – one that’s never backed down from new challenges. We won two world wars, weathered economic upheaval and fought together through barbaric terrorist attacks. All of the challenges our people face together can be overcome if we’re willing to work together to rise and meet them. America has always been a world leader– and we can’t stop now.”
04.24.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has renewed his collaboration with local researchers to secure additional funding to combat the Allium leafminer, an invasive species of pest which threatens Orange County’s multimillion dollar onion industry. In a letter to the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), Rep. Maloney has formally requested a federal investment through the Crop Protection and Pest Management (CPPM) Program to support a local research project led by Cornell Professor Dr. Brian Nault. “Dr. Nault is off to a great start on finding ways to stop this threat, but we have too little existing science on these insects, and we have to prioritize research investments when we’re talking about a $25 million industry in Orange County,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “I’m keeping on this and will do my part in Washington to make sure research funds are available, and that they’re being directed to projects that we need in the Hudson Valley.” “Congressman Maloney’s support of previously funded research grants has improved our understanding about the biology and future management of Allium leafminer in New York,” said Dr. Brian Nault, Professor in the Department of Entomology at Cornell University’s New York State Agricultural Experiment Station and lead Allium leafminer Researcher. “I am very grateful for Congressman Maloney’s continued support of our efforts to leverage research funding that will lead to immediate solutions for controlling this economically damaging pest.” The Allium leafminer is an invasive species of insect which destroys the foliage and stems of onions, leeks, garlic, chives, shallots, and green onions. The first pests were discovered in Orange County in April of 2017. Local agriculture experts warn that the insect could inflict major damage on the Orange County onion crop, but more research is necessary to determine how growers can protect these crops from the pest. Orange County produces half of New York State’s onion crop, generates $25 million in annual sales, and employs hundreds of residents. Dr. Nault and fellow Cornell Cooperative Extension educators Ethan Grundberg and Teresa Rusinek have partnered with researchers at Penn State University on a new project entitled “Solutions for managing Allium leafminer: a new invasive threat to Allium crops in North America.” The project aims to identify potential solutions to managing the leafminer in New York and surrounding states and is seeking federal funding for the project. The CPPM program, administered through NIFA, supports projects that will increase food security and respond effectively to other major societal challenges with comprehensive integrated pest management (IPM) approaches that are economically viable, ecologically prudent, and safe for human health. The CPPM program addresses pest management challenges with new and emerging technologies. The outcomes of the CPPM program are effective, affordable, and environmentally sound IPM practices and strategies supporting more vital communities. In October, Rep. Maloney announced that he had secured a total of $130,000 in investments from the New York State Farm Viability Institute (NYFVI) and Federal Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research (FFAR). Rep. Maloney also met with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue in May 2017 to secure his commitment to assisting Hudson Valley farmers in their fight on the leafminer and joined local leaders to call for federal investments. The full text of the letter is below, and an original copy is available here. Dear Mr. Bolton: I write in support of Dr. Brian Nault and Dr. Shelby Fleischer’s application to receive funding through the Crop Protection and Pest Management Program. Their project, “Solutions for managing Allium leafminer: a new invasive threat to Allium crops in North America,” is of great interest to my district in New York’s Hudson Valley, as our farmers and economy are reliant on the local onion crop. As you know, the allium leafminer is an invasive species of pest that threatens crops nationwide. The pest destroys plants in the allium family, including: onions, garlic, shallots, and leeks. Collectively these crops account for millions of dollars in economic impact and represent the livelihood of thousands of farmers across the country. In my District alone, an allium leafminer infestation would impact farms that are responsible for hundreds of millions of dollars in local revenue. Investing in effective management techniques is critical to stopping this problem before it spreads. The Crop Protection and Pest Management Program is the ideal vehicle to do just that. With the support of this program, research efforts led by both Cornell Cooperative Extension and Penn State University can be synergized by the expertise of career vegetable entomologists and cooperative extension educators from both institutions. I remain committed to finding effective and sustainable solutions to this problem. Given the potential threat these insects pose, an investment in preventing their spread would be money well-spent. I ask that you give your full and fair consideration to this funding request. Thank you in advance for your time and attention.
04.24.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), who has brought millions of dollars in federal investments to the City of Newburgh to hire and retain dozens of firefighters, released the following statement after the Newburgh City Council voted to allocate only a portion of county funds towards retaining three firefighters and to apply for funding for nine additional firefighter positions through the Federal Emergency Management Association’s (FEMA’s) Staffing for Adequate Fire Emergency Response (SAFER) program. Federal funding for all twelve jobs is set to expire at the end of the summer. “It’s always been my position that saving all twelve firefighter jobs should be the city council’s highest spending priority – especially after the city received half a million dollars from the county. While I’m glad the city council has opted to save three jobs, I remain concerned that this will be viewed as a half-measure by FEMA and make securing these federal investments less likely. “I’ll continue to push the federal folks to provide this funding, but FEMA doesn’t like to give a second SAFER grant let alone a third."
04.19.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), who serves the United States Military Academy at West Point in the United States Congress and on the Academy’s Board of Visitors, released the following statement on the retirement of West Point Superintendent Lieutenant General Robert L. Caslen Jr. Superintendent Caslen has served in the U.S. Army for nearly 43 years, including nearly five years in West Point’s top post. “Superintendent Caslen is an exemplary officer and has been one of the best Superintendents in the history of West Point. He will be missed by the faculty, cadets, and the rest of the West Point Community. At every board meeting, I heard him state his core belief that “when you fail at character, you fail at leadership.” Bob Caslen succeeded at both. “The Superintendent has presided over the Academy as America faces a changing security environment and constantly emerging threats. Although he’s focused on modernization to ensure our next generation of military leaders can meet these new challenges, he has remained unwavering in his commitment to the core values that have defined the Academy for more than two centuries and are enshrined in its motto: Duty, Honor, Country. “I thank the Superintendent for his years of service in the Army and as the leader of our country’s premier military academy. I wish him and his wife Shelly the best as they transition to civilian life. “I look forward to working alongside the next Superintendent to ensure West Point maintains its elite status and continues to shape America’s future military leaders.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has served as a member of the West Point Board of Visitors since May 2016. The board is directed to inquire into the morale, discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating to the academy that the board decides to consider. Rep. Maloney has also worked to secure millions of dollars in additional federal investments to fund the construction of new cadet barracks at West Point.
04.19.2018	WASHIGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, released the following statement after the Committee amended and passed H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, also known as the 2018 Farm Bill. The bill reauthorizes – and amends – all programs directed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and is typically passed every five years. “Hudson Valley farmers contribute millions to our local economy every year and create thousands of jobs – not to mention feed America – and fighting on their behalf for a good Farm Bill is one of the most important things I do in Congress. I grew up in a rural area. I live in a rural area. I take it very seriously. “This farm bill was not written for Hudson Valley farmers and doesn’t have my support. It fails to make crop insurance work better for the diverse family farms we have in the Hudson Valley or invest in the next generation of farmers. It doesn’t do enough to support specialty crop growers who produce onions and apples. And it doesn’t invest in research that our farmers rely on – like Cornell’s work to combat the allium leafminer. The bill cuts conservation programs crucial to New York where we lose ten times more agricultural land to development than we protect every year. It makes massive changes to nutrition assistance programs – like SNAP – that tens of thousands of households in the Hudson Valley rely on. These changes were designed to throw folks off the program or reduce their benefits. “The priorities I drew up with my Agriculture Advisory Board weren’t met with this bill and I can’t support it as-is.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has served the Hudson Valley on the Committee on Agriculture since coming to Congress in 2013. In October 2017, Rep. Maloney met with his Agriculture Advisory Board to plan his priorities for the 2018 Farm Bill. He also met with local hunger experts in February, 2018, as much of the Farm Bill focuses on the provision of nutrition assistance.
04.18.2018	Two-Thirds of House Required to Cosponsor Coin Bills Prior to Receiving a Hearing WASHIGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), author of the Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act, commended Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. after it announced its “Campaign for 290,” which aims to attract at least 290 cosponsors to Rep. Maloney’s legislation by Memorial Day. Financial Services Committee rules require two-thirds of the House of Representatives – or 290 total members – to cosponsor any commemorative coin bill prior to receiving a hearing. The bill currently has 140 cosponsors. “We’re doing our part on the Hill to attract more cosponsors, and we look forward to getting to the 290 benchmark needed to make this idea a reality – Purple Heart recipients deserve all the recognition and thanks they can get, and the Hall deserves this commemorative coin,” said Rep. Maloney. “I want to thank the Hall for its commitment for getting this passed into law – it’s commonsense – it honors our veterans, provides additional funding for the Hall itself, and it does all that at no cost to the taxpayer.” “It is a great honor as Chairman of the Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. and a Purple Heart recipient to be giving my support to the National Purple Heart Commemorative Coin Act written by Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney,” said Richard Lay, Chairman of the Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. “His support of our nation's veterans and the community of Purple Heart honorees is greatly appreciated.” “As the Legislative Director of the Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., I am thrilled to be a part of the effort to gather support for the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act,” said Stephanie Keegan, Legislative Director, National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. “This legislation was written by Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney who is a remarkable supporter of the veteran community. When H.R.1683 is passed it will go a long way to helping with improvements and programs at the museum to help honor those who have given so much in support of our country.” The National Purple Heat Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act (H.R.1683) authorizes the U.S. Treasury to mint $5 gold coins, $1 silver coins, and half-dollar clad coins at the United States Mint at West Point. They will be sold in limited quantities. After production costs are recouped by the U.S. Treasury, proceeds from sales of the coin will go to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor to allow the organization to develop and renovate their facilities. The Purple Heart is one of the oldest and most recognized American military medals, awarded to service members who were killed or wounded by enemy action. The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor’s mission is to collect and preserve the stories of Purple Heart recipients from all branches of service and across generations to ensure that all recipients are represented, and serves as a living memorial to their sacrifice. George Washington founded the purple heart in New Windsor, NY in 1782. The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act has been endorsed by The Military Order of the Purple Heart, Armed Forces Marketing Council, American Military Retirees Association, American Military Society, AMVETS, Army Navy Union, Association of the United States Navy, Gold Star Wives of America, Inc., Korean War Veterans Foundation, Military Order of Foreign Wars, National Defense Committee, National Enlisted Reserve Association, Reserve Officers Association, Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors, The Flag and General Officers Network, The Retired Enlisted Association, and Vietnam Veterans of America.
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush. “I wish I was half the parent, spouse and political strategist Barbara Bush was. She reminds us of a time when strong, principled people governed our country with civility, humility and grace. Especially now – we should remember her by working to return those values to our public life. “I hope all of America will join me in saying a prayer for Mrs. Bush, the former president, and the rest of the Bush family as they struggle with their loss.”
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today honored two Hudson Valley leaders who passed away this weekend in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. Assemblyman Frank Skartados and Newburgh Mayor Judy Kennedy both passed on Sunday after years of serving their communities. Click the Link Above to Watch Representative Maloney’s Speech A transcript of Rep. Maloney’s remarks is available below. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to memorialize two beloved elected officials from the Hudson Valley who passed away this weekend: Assemblyman Frank Skartados and Newburgh Mayor Judy Kennedy. First, Assemblyman Frank Skartados represented a number of communities up and down the Hudson Valley. He lost a battle with cancer early Sunday morning. Even though he was struggling through his sickness, Frank still fought relentlessly for his neighbors, up in Albany. Frank was an immigrant from Greece, grew up on a small Greek island, came to America as a teenager, learned English, paid his way through school, built a successful business. He went on to represent the people of the Hudson Valley in the State Assembly for nearly a decade. Now if that's not the American dream, I don't know what is. My heart goes out to the Skartados family and to everyone else grieving his loss. We will miss Frank sorely. I'd also like to memorialize Judy Kennedy, the mayor of Newburgh, New York. Judy and I shared a love for the city of Newburgh. Judy also passed away from cancer this weekend. She fought through the sickness to serve the people she cared so much about and the city she loved. She was a relentless warrior for the people she represented. She brought the city of Newburgh through an economic crisis and presided over a real revitalization throughout that city. Our thoughts are with the Kennedy family as well, and of course the entire Newburgh community that will miss her leadership. The public servants we lost this weekend were truly special people. They dedicated their lives to the people they served and the best way for us to honor their legacy is to finish their work to look out for the communities they represented - and to make sure they stay the wonderful places to live, work, and raise a family that they are. Frank and Judy, thank you for all you've done for us. I hope everyone in the Hudson Valley joins me in saying a prayer in remembrance of their service and, and of course we'll see them. We'll see them whenever we see the government doing something right. We'll see them when we see the city of Newburgh continue to thrive. We'll see them when we see the state government improving our environment, looking out for working families, fighting for people without a voice. That's where we'll see their legacy, when we continue the work they fought so nobly and so long to advance. Rest in peace.
04.16.2018	Poughkeepsie, NY – After a fire at the Rip Van Winkle affordable housing complex in Poughkeepsie left hundreds of residents without provisional housing, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced legislation to ensure low income tenants are re-housed if they’re unable to return home. The Affordable Housing Protection Act would direct the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to require the establishment of pass-through leases in the event that tenants are displaced from their federally-subsidized housing. “We’re lucky that the community rallied around the Rip Van Winkle residents after the fire, but neither HUD nor PK Management were under any legal obligation to help – and that has to change,” said Rep. Maloney. “We’ve already got “guidance” on this, but housing should be a guarantee not a gamble – families shouldn’t be left out in the cold because of a disaster.” “The fear of the unknown certainly is stressful enough when you have a roof over your head, but when you know that you’ve got to leave your apartment with your children and not really knowing where you may go, it’s definitely worse, and we we’re lucky that many of the people from the Rip Van Winkle houses went and stayed with relatives,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “This is something that should be prepared for them. People should know that they'll have a place to go – that they are going to be taken care of and they don’t have to worry about the financial constraints.” After the Rip Van Winkle fire, tenants were initially told they may have to wait up to two months before they could return to the complex while repairs were made to electrical, heating, and water systems. In the meantime, neither HUD nor the management company were required to find or fund provisional housing for tenants, and tenants were re-housed on an ad hoc basis. The Midhudson Civic Center established a temporary shelter with assistance from the Red Cross for seven days. Mayor Rolison and Rep. Maloney then collaborated with PK Management to ensure that tenants received hotel vouchers. During the fire, PK Management did not receive its normal payments from HUD, as no tenants were housed at the complex. The HUD handbook contains a “guidance” which recommends the establishment of pass-through leases if tenants are not able to return to their normal housing. However, this guidance is not a mandate and is not observed universally throughout the country. Some HUD regions require the establishment of such provisions in its contracts with private landlords, but HUD Region 1, which includes New York, does not. The Affordable Housing Protection Act would simply codify that guidance and ensure that all future contracts contain a pass-through provision. The bill would require the secretary of HUD to determine who should be responsible for establishing the lease arrangements, the timeframe for seeking temporary housing, and best practices to follow in the event that temporary housing is unavailable. Tenants would continue to pay the same level of rent they had paid prior to being displaced, and would be protected from rate hikes. The bill is unlikely to create new costs to taxpayers, as it relies on funds that have already been appropriated to HUD. Landlords do not receive these funds when their section 8 project units are uninhabited, including in situations like the Poughkeepsie fire, so the funding already available would be redirected. The bill would also guarantee that there is a mechanism in place to rapidly re-house affordable housing residents in the event of natural disasters like hurricanes. Rep. Maloney’s office has worked with the Mayor’s office and other officials since the fire at Rip Van Winkle displaced more than 300 residents of the affordable housing complex. Working with Mayor Rolison, Maloney announced that all tenants had returned to their homes within three weeks of the fire. Rep. Maloney’s office also facilitated a call with representatives from HUD to discuss next steps regarding heating issues. In January, after heating issues at the complex persisted, Rep. Maloney asked HUD to conduct a comprehensive inspection and audit to determine the facility’s compliance with HUD regulations.
04.15.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the passing of New York State Assemblyman Frank Skartados. “Frank Skartados leaves a proud legacy as a fighter for the people he loved and a voice for many who had none. It’s been my honor to serve alongside him all these years. Frank is now at peace and we should pray for his family and be grateful for his life of service to us all. “Frank came to America as a young man, worked to pay his way through school, built a business, and won election to represent his neighbors in the State House. If that’s not the American Dream, I don’t know what is."
04.15.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Newburgh Mayor Judy Kennedy passed away. “Judy Kennedy and I shared a love for the City of Newburgh, and I saw her in action working every day to make Newburgh the City that its wonderful people deserve. Judy’s focus and tenacity empowered her to hold the city together through a financial crisis – and to come out the other side stronger. It was also her vision that has led to the reinvestment on Liberty street and the City’s improving financial outlook. “Judy's legacy, and the best way we can remember her, is to finish her work of making Newburgh an even better place to live, work and raise a family. As she said in her final statement to the City – we have to “rise together” if we’re going to achieve that goal. “My heart goes out to Judy’s family, to her colleagues on the City Council, and to the entire Newburgh community in this difficult time. She will be missed.”
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the United States conducted targeted strikes on chemical weapons facilities in Syria. “God bless and protect our troops. They’ve sent the message that using poison gas on innocent civilians is immoral and unacceptable behavior that the United States will not tolerate. “Assad is a criminal and a butcher of his own people – and the international community stands united against his use of chemical weapons. “The Constitution requires Congress to demand a real strategy and authorize it (or not). We can’t get involved in another open-ended war in the Middle East. The President – working with Secretary Mattis – should devise a strategy and bring it before the United States Congress before any further action is taken.”
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to reports that New York State Assemblyman Frank Skartados is in the hospital battling a serious illness. “Frank is a fighter for those he loves. I’ve seen it every day we’ve served together in how he fights for his neighbors. It’s now up to all of us to fight for him with our prayers and good thoughts. Please pray for Frank and his family.”
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Paul Ryan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, announced that he would not seek reelection in 2018. “Although Speaker Ryan and I don’t share the same political philosophy, I believe he’s a good man and I appreciate his service to his constituents and the country. I wish him and his family the best as they transition away from public life. “The Speaker’s retirement should also be a wakeup call to his fellow Republicans in Congress – the American people have had it with backroom dealing and a partisan refusal to compromise. I hope that in his final days as Speaker, Paul Ryan seeks out common ground and a transparent approach to wielding the gavel.”
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the passing of best-selling children’s author and Cold Spring resident Jean Marzollo. “Jean Marzollo was a Hudson Valley treasure who brought education and wonder to millions of children and parents. I remember enjoying her work – especially the I Spy series – with my own children. “Jean was a personal friend and neighbor – she danced at my wedding and baked cookies with my kids. She was a passionate voice for education and a stalwart booster of the Haldane School District. This is a tragic loss for the Cold Spring community. Randy and I offer Claudio and her entire family our condolences during this difficult time. Jean’s intellect and decency sparkled in this life and she will be missed.”
04.10.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) commended the Newburgh City Council’s vote to apply for a Federal Emergence Management Association (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant. Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $5 million in federal SAFER investments for the City of Newburgh’s Fire Department since taking office in 2013. “I’m glad the City Council has taken the first step towards protecting the people of Newburgh and saving these firefighters’ jobs – as elected officials our primary responsibility should be to keep our people safe,” said Rep. Maloney. “Now, the City Council should agree to accept the grant and contribute their fair share of funding if the federal government makes another investment. In the meantime, they should invest the money the County provided in retaining as many positions as possible. I’ll go to bat for the City like I always have – now we need them to do their part.” Although last night’s vote allows Newburgh’s City Manager to formally apply for the federal investment, the City Council must vote to accept the investment and enter into a cost sharing arrangement. Under this arrangement, the city would be responsible for investing at least 25% of the cost of hiring new firefighters for the first two years of the three-year investment. The city would be responsible for investing at least 45% for the final year. Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $5 million in federal investments for the Newburgh Fire Department. In 2013, shortly after Rep. Maloney took office, the department applied for its first SAFER grant, but was initially denied. Rep. Maloney then worked with the department to ensure they received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.4 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. In 2015, when the initial round of funding ran out and the department faced twelve potential layoffs, Rep. Maloney urged FEMA to approve another SAFER grant to prevent a potential round of layoffs and hire six additional firefighters. In July 2016, Rep. Maloney announced that FEMA had agreed to provide a rarely-awarded second SAFER grant worth $2,061,516 to fund these positions into July 2018. At the end of last year, the City of Newburgh announced that its budget would not include funding to retain a dozen firefighters. If the City does not reverse course, twelve firefighters, including one injured in the Verla fire, will be laid off. The SAFER program was created to provide funding directly to local fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help increase or maintain the number of trained, "front line" firefighters available in their communities. In addition to avoiding lay-offs and adding new firefighters to the job, the two SAFER grants secured by Rep. Maloney have allowed the Newburgh Fire Department to put four firefighters on all trucks, providing unprecedented size-of-force, which has decreased overtime costs and increased public safety across the board. In addition, the SAFER grants have allowed the department to increase its fire prevention services and proactively fight fires before they start. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for fire departments throughout the Hudson Valley. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $10 million for Hudson Valley fire departments. Over $1 million of this funding has been directed at modernizing equipment, including protective gear, at fire districts in the Hudson Valley. Rep. Maloney also hosts an annual workshop in Newburgh to help local fire departments effectively apply to grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program.
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON – As women still earn less than men nationally, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his expanded agenda to “Increase Economic Opportunities for Women.” Maloney first introduced his seven-point agenda for improving economic opportunity for women in 2014, and this year’s agenda includes a larger role for sexual assault prevention. Equal Pay Day is the symbolic day when women's average earnings catch up to men's earnings from the previous year. Although New York has the smallest gender pay gap of any state in the nation, with women earning an average of $0.89 to a man’s dollar, women in the Hudson Valley still earn only 78.5% what their male counterparts earn – a difference of about $14,000 per year. “New York is leading the way on closing the gender pay gap, but the gap shouldn’t exist at all,” said Rep. Maloney. “Women are innovators, civic leaders, and breadwinners, and even after all the progress we’ve made toward gender equality, there’s more work to do. My comprehensive agenda tries to get at the various roots of the problem – from making college more affordable to combating sexual harassment.” According to the American Association of University Women, women in New York’s 18th congressional district earn – on average – $0.78 to every $1 earned by a man. More information on Rep. Maloney’s work to ensure equality of opportunity for women is available here. Rep. Maloney’s Expanded Plan to “Increase Economic Opportunities for Women” Strengthen the Equal Pay Act: Five and a half decades after President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act, Hudson Valley women working full time earn less than 80 percent of men’s median earnings. Nationally, women make, on average, 80 cents for every dollar earned by men, which amounts to a yearly gap of $10,470. The Paycheck Fairness Act closes loopholes in the Equal Pay Act. Increase the Federal Minimum Wage to $15.00: Women represent nearly two-thirds of minimum wage workers across the country. More than half of minimum wage workers in New York are women, and someone working full-time, year-round at minimum wage today earns just $18,000. New York State passed a minimum wage increase as part of their 2016-17 budget, but the federal minimum wage would ensure women nationwide would earn a living wage. In addition to supporting the minimum wage increase recently passed in New York, Representative Maloney supports the Raise the Wage Act, which would raise the federal minimum wage to $15.00 over the next seven years. Establish National Paid Family and Medical Leave: Current regulations on leave provide unpaid, job-protected leave for serious health-related events for only half of the workforce. Remaining workers don’t qualify for unpaid leave, and many more simply cannot afford to take unpaid time off. The FAMILY Act would establish a national paid family and medical leave insurance program, ensuring that American workers would no longer have to choose between a paycheck and caring for themselves or a family member. Implement Mandatory Sexual Harassment Training and Protections: According to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, up to 85 percent of women report that they have been sexually harassed in the workplace. The #MeToo movement has sparked and sustained a national conversation on sexual assault that was long overdue. Congress should lead on this issue, but many Representatives have themselves committed acts of sexual harassment. House Resolution 630, which passed unanimously on November 29, 2017, requires all House of Representatives staff and Members to undergo sexual harassment training. The ME TOO Congress Act would require annual harassment training in both the Senate and House, discontinue the legal practice of “mandatory mediation,” and give vulnerable interns and fellows the same workplace protections as full-time staff. Increase Quality and Affordable Early Childhood Education: Investing in early education programs like Head Start is one of the single most important things we can do to open up opportunities for kids and set our children up for a lifetime of success. The Patsy T. Mink Gender Equity in Education Act requires the Department of Education to establish an Office for Gender Equity to support higher education institutions and elementary and secondary schools in fully implementing Title IX, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in federally-funded education programs. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act would help child care centers, Head Start programs, homeless shelters, and afterschool programs provide nutritious meals and snacks to children. Make College More Affordable: Women are 33 percent more likely to have a bachelor’s degree or higher. Unfortunately, college graduates are saddled with unmanageable and crushing student loan debt payments preventing them from buying a home or starting their own business. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act would allow borrowers with high interest rates on their outstanding student loans to refinance at much lower levels. Protect a Woman’s Freedom of Choice: Women and their doctors should make important health decisions – not Washington politicians. Instead of defunding Planned Parenthood, we should increase access to affordable preventive healthcare services including breast and cervical cancer screenings. The Equal Access to Abortion Coverage in Health Insurance (EACH Woman) Act would guarantee coverage for abortion care in private insurance, as well as public programs like Medicaid, Medicare, and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Support Women Entrepreneurs and Small Businesses: Women represent almost 40 percent of all business owners and over 99 percent of women-owned businesses are small businesses. They are also more likely to be turned down for loans or face less favorable loan terms than men. The Developing the Next Generation of Small Businesses Act of 2017 would improve access to lending and increase business counseling and training services for women entrepreneurs and give women-owned businesses more access to federal contracts.
04.05.2018	Newburgh, NY — After receiving nearly two dozen complaints from Hudson Valley residents in Middletown, New Windsor, and Westchester County, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) sent a letter to the Deputy Postmaster General at the United States Postal Service (USPS) formally asking the agency to resolve delivery problems. In the letter, dated April 4, Rep. Maloney outlined the numerous complaints his office has received ranging from delayed delivery to the total disappearance of packages. “Americans have come to expect fast and dependable mail delivery because USPS has always done such a great job, but I’m getting a lot of complaints, and we need to make sure the Post Office is maintaining its high standards,” said Rep. Maloney. “Resource challenges and a changing market obviously make it tough for USPS to keep up, but older Americans waiting on medication and folks waiting for important paperwork don’t have the luxury of dealing with long delays.” Rep. Maloney has received nearly two dozen complaints from Hudson Valley residents over the past few months. The complaints range in severity from late deliveries to packages arriving at the wrong address. The text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Deputy Postmaster General Stroman: I am writing today with concerns regarding the inconsistent and poor mail service affecting residents in the Hudson Valley, specifically, my neighbors in Middletown, New Windsor and Westchester. In the past few months, my office has received an influx of complaints from residents who’ve experienced severely delayed mail, packages being delivered to the wrong addresses or packages not being delivered at all. I’ve seen firsthand the amazing work the men and women of the U.S. Postal Service do every day to ensure our mail gets where it needs to go. But I am concerned that without adequate resources and support, they are being asked to do the impossible. Poor mail delivery has been an ongoing issue in these areas and is commonly blamed on weather conditions or route realignments. While these instances may be contributing factors, I don’t believe they explain the broader pattern of substandard services many of my neighbors in the Hudson Valley are experiencing. It’s unacceptable that extended delays and improperly sorted packages have caused seniors to wait longer to receive necessary medications and folks to miss important documents they depend on. These practices do not meet the service standards promised by the USPS and should be immediately addressed. It’s imperative that the USPS is ensuring that hard-working postal employees have the support they need to provide the high-quality service we’ve come to expect. I strongly urge you to work with the mailing facilities in the Hudson Valley region to find a permanent solution to maintain the integrity and dependability of this important service. My office stands ready to assist in any way we can and I thank you for your attention to this matter.
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON — Only days after vowing to continue the fight against potential future Hudson River anchorage proposals, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that the spending bill, expected to be signed into law within days, will include a provision to slow any new proposals and increase transparency. The provision requires the Coast Guard to come to Congress with the results of the Hudson River Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) and explain its plans regarding anchorages prior to offering any future proposal. The 2016 proposal to install ten new anchorage sites was buried in the Federal Register, a document released daily by the federal government and averaging over 270 pages per day. “If the Coast Guard wants to go rogue and make a unilateral decision that ignores their own PAWSA report, they’ll have to come explain that to Congress before they even make the proposal,” said Rep. Maloney. “If I know the Coast Guard is thinking of proposing more anchorages in advance, it will be easier to rally opposition to it – we killed the first proposal in the crib – and this will give us an ever better chance of doing that again.” Federal agencies have the authority to propose rules through a formal process enshrined in federal law. A voluntary first step in the process is providing an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, which is published in the Federal Register, the official journal of the federal government. Although this portion of the process is meant to provide transparency and solicit public input, the average length of the Federal Register in 2016 was over 270 pages each day. The Coast Guard did opt to provide an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to solicit public opinion when considering its 2016 proposal. Thanks to Rep. Maloney, a coalition of local officials, and stakeholder groups, the Hudson Valley was notified of the proposal and provided nearly-unanimous opposition in the form of 10,000 public comments. The provision included in today’s spending bill will provide genuine transparency by requiring the agency to come to Congress to explain its decision in the context of the PAWSA held in 2017 prior to offering a proposal. In 2016, the Coast Guard issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which would have allowed the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. The sites would hold a total of 43 berths, including 42 long-term berths, for barges travelling downriver to the Port of New York. Rep. Maloney expressed strong opposition to this proposal in Congressional hearings and demanded local stakeholders have a greater say in the process. The Coast Guard agreed to the request and extended the public comment period for the proposal. After receiving approximately 10,000 negative comments and overwhelming bipartisan opposition, the Coast Guard relented. Rep. Maloney announced in June 2017 that the Coast Guard had suspended its proposal and instead opted to hold a series of PAWSA workshops. The aim of these workshops was to get a comprehensive look at the need for such a proposal as the result of safety concerns and seek out local input before proceeding with any possible future proposals. The PAWSA workshops for the Hudson River were held on November 7-8 in Poughkeepsie and November 15-16 in Albany. In 1996, Congress directed the U.S. Coast Guard “to identify minimum user requirements for new Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) systems in consultation with local officials, waterways users and port authorities.” As a result, the Coast Guard created the PAWSA process, which was established to open a dialogue with waterway users and stakeholders. In July, 2017, Rep. Maloney announced his “Maloney Principles” for evaluating the PAWSA process for the Hudson River, which included a focus on facts, the inclusion of local perspectives and environmental concerns, and a commitment to transparency. Two pieces of Rep. Maloney’s legislation to stop future anchorage proposals passed the House of Representatives last year: The Anchorages Away Act would require the Coast Guard, within 180 days of passage, to submit a report to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the impacts of proposed anchorages on existing superfund sites and habitats of endangered species, as well as the Coast Guard’s response to these concerns. The legislation would also bar the Coast Guard from establishing any new anchorages between Yonkers and Kingston until 180 days after the report is submitted. The bill passed the House as part of the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act in July. Rep. Maloney also successfully passed an amendment through the House of Representatives in September, which would defund any attempts to fund potential future anchorage sites between Yonkers and Kingston. The amendment passed as part of the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2018.
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C. — After holding four in-person community forums on gun violence in our schools attended by hundreds of Hudson Valley residents, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a letter-writing campaign designed to give students the opportunity to make their voices heard by top Congressional leaders. The campaign invites students to voice their concerns, offer suggestions, and ask questions about the status of gun safety efforts in Congress. At the end of the campaign, Rep. Maloney will hand-deliver students’ responses to leaders in Congress to amplify the voices of young people in the Hudson Valley. “If the Walkout last week taught us anything, it’s that students are not slowing down on the issue of gun violence,” said Rep. Maloney. “Young people are leading the way on this critical public safety issue, and I want to help amplify their voices as best I can. I don’t care which side of the issue people come down on, it’s young people driving this conversation, and I want to convey all of their opinions to the folks at the top.” If you are a student or you know a student who would like to participate in Representative Maloney’s letter-writing campaign, please visit https://seanmaloney.house.gov/school-gun-violence. Rep. Maloney will run the campaign through April 20, 2018. Rep. Maloney supports strong federal efforts to combat the gun violence epidemic, including: banning assault weapons, raising the purchasing age, improving the National Instant Background Check System (NICS), implementing universal background checks and closing the gun show loophole, as well as repealing the Dickey Amendment, which has prevented research on gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
03.19.2018	YONKERS, NY — After the Coast Guard released a final Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) report which did not recommend the installation of new anchorages on the Hudson River, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), other elected officials, and local stakeholders vowed to oppose any potential future anchorage proposals and to hold the Coast Guard to the results of its own PAWSA report. The PAWSA was initiated by the Coast Guard after Rep. Maloney led local groups to kill an initial proposal made in 2016. The PAWSA process provided an opportunity for all relevant stakeholders to hold comprehensive discussions on safety risks in the Hudson River, but its results are not legally binding. “This is another huge win and one more nail in the coffin for this unnecessary and dangerous proposal. We expect the Coast Guard to keep fidelity to the PAWSA process that they initiated, and if they don’t, they’ll have us to answer to,” said Rep. Maloney. “We won’t take our eyes of the ball when it comes to the anchorages, and we’ll keep working to make sure the proposal stays dead.” “I am pleased that the final PAWSA report issued by the Coast Guard does not include a recommendation for the construction of any new anchorage sites in the Hudson River,” Congressman Eliot Engel said. “From day one, my colleagues and I have said the anchorage proposal was a bad idea and we have worked hard to stop it dead in its tracks. So far we have been successful in derailing this misguided proposal, but the issue is not yet behind us. This latest report also indicates that the Coast Guard could still move forward with anchorages in the future, so we must remain vigilant. Congressman Maloney and I will continue to look for ways to help preserve and protect our shoreline communities at the federal level, and I am proud to have partners at the local level like Mayor Spano in Yonkers, Mayor Swiderski in Hastings, the Hudson Riverkeeper, and Scenic Hudson who are also fighting vigorously to preserve the pristine beauty of the Hudson River.” “I’m sorry I cannot be there in person, but I am glad that the Coast Guard listened to the concerns of thousands of Hudson Valley residents and rejected the misguided anchorage proposal,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “I hope they will respect the guidance of the community leaders who have come together as part of the Coast Guard’s Hudson River Safety Committee to ensure local residents help shape plans for the future of the river. Our communities will remain focused and engaged in protecting the river from new anchorages as well as ensuring its safety.” “I applaud the move by the United States Coast Guard, and look forward to Westchester residents continuing to enjoy all the scenic Hudson River has to offer,” said Westchester County Executive George Latimer. “The Hudson River should not be a parking lot for large scale barges, which bring unnecessary risks of disaster to our communities. This move would not have happened unless countless Westchester County residents made their voices heard. Once the rulemaking period began, residents from all corners of the County made clear that the Hudson River was not the place for an oil barge parking lot. This decision is also a win for local businesses along the river that utilize the breathtaking views the Hudson offers. Our majestic Hudson River is best when we are able to fully appreciate its beauty – unobstructed.” “Since the original proposal of ten new anchorage sites by the Coast Guard in 2016, protecting the Hudson River, in particular our waterfront, has been a major focus for us in the City of Yonkers,” said Yonkers Mayor Mike Spano. “With the support of Congressman Maloney, Congressman Engel and other local leaders, I’m proud that our ‘Ban The Barges’ advocacy campaign led the charge. Now more than ever, we must continue to voice our concerns to the Coast Guard for the future of our beloved Hudson River.” "The Coast Guard's PAWSA report is good news for the Hudson,” said John Lipscomb, Riverkeeper Patrol Boat Captain and Vice President for Advocacy. “We're glad that the original anchorage request is off the table. It's not clear whether a new, modified proposal will follow, and if so, when. Hudson Valley residents and river advocates should stay tuned, stay involved and stay vocal. One key recommendation agreed upon by the PAWSA participants was the formation of a Hudson River safety committee, and I'm happy to say that one has been convened. The 'Hudson River Safety, Navigation and Operations Committee' is a historic new opportunity for collaboration across a wide range of interests – diverse groups of people who enjoy, protect and work on the river. Commercial operators, including the tug and barge industry, are part of this new committee along with recreational boaters, river communities and environmentalists. A year ago we were completely at odds with commercial operators. Now we're at the same table. I'm proud to represent the river's environmental concerns on the committee, and this new dialog can only help our work to protect the Hudson." "Scenic Hudson is pleased that the Coast Guard is not recommending establishment of new anchorage's along the Hudson River in its PAWSA report,” said Andy Bicking, Scenic Hudson’s Director of Public Policy. “The workshops established that there is no need for new designated anchorages and that safety on the river can be established through other measures that would not damage the river's natural resources, community assets and regional economy. However, the report also indicates that the Coast Guard has not yet made any decisions on whether to move forward. We must stay vigilant to ensure that it is not revived." Last week, Rep. Maloney announced that the results of the Coast Guard’s PAWSA process did not include a recommendation to install any new anchorages on the river. However, the results of the PAWSA process are not legally binding. If the Coast Guard intended to advance another anchorage proposal in the future, they would be required to initiate the same Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking process they announced in 2016. The final PAWSA report makes three key recommendations, but falls short of suggesting the installation of any new anchorage sites. According to the report, the three most significant recommendations include: creating a Hudson River Safety Committee, increasing recreational boating safety information, and clarifying existing regulations. After holding two public workshops, the Coast Guard issued a final report which is in-line with the universal local opinion that no new anchorages should be established on the Hudson River. In 2016, the Coast Guard issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which would have allowed the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. The sites would hold a total of 43 berths, including 42 long-term berths, for barges travelling downriver to the Port of New York. Rep. Maloney expressed strong opposition to this proposal in Congressional hearings and demanded local stakeholders have a greater say in the process. The Coast Guard agreed to the request and extended the public comment period for the proposal. After receiving approximately 10,000 negative comments and overwhelming bipartisan opposition, the Coast Guard relented. Rep. Maloney announced in June 2017 that the Coast Guard had suspended its proposal and instead opted to hold a series of PAWSA workshops. The aim of these workshops was to get a comprehensive look at the need for such a proposal as the result of safety concerns and seek out local input before proceeding with any possible future proposals. The PAWSA workshops for the Hudson River were held on November 7-8 in Poughkeepsie and November 15-16 in Albany. In 1996, Congress directed the U.S. Coast Guard “to identify minimum user requirements for new Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) systems in consultation with local officials, waterways users and port authorities.” As a result, the Coast Guard created the PAWSA process, which was established to open a dialogue with waterway users and stakeholders. In July, 2017, Rep. Maloney announced his “Maloney Principles” for evaluating the PAWSA process for the Hudson River, which included a focus on facts, the inclusion of local perspectives and environmental concerns, and a commitment to transparency. Two pieces of Rep. Maloney’s legislation to stop future anchorage proposals passed the House of Representatives last year: The Anchorages Away Act would require the Coast Guard, within 180 days of passage, to submit a report to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the impacts of proposed anchorages on existing superfund sites and habitats of endangered species, as well as the Coast Guard’s response to these concerns. The legislation would also bar the Coast Guard from establishing any new anchorages between Yonkers and Kingston until 180 days after the report is submitted. The bill passed the House as part of the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act in July. Rep. Maloney also successfully passed an amendment through the House of Representatives in September, which would defund any attempts to fund potential future anchorage sites between Yonkers and Kingston. The amendment passed as part of the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2018.
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after legendary New York Representative Louise Slaughter (NY-25) passed away. Rep. Slaughter served for over three decades in the House of Representatives and was Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and Dean of the New York Delegation. “My heart is with Rochester and Rep. Slaughter’s loved ones, her friends and her staff. Louise was a pioneer for women’s rights and a role model for women across the country. She was the only microbiologist in Congress – and got her degree at a time when women faced incredible barriers – especially in the sciences. But even after all of her success, she never forgot her roots in Harlan County, Kentucky and fought for working people throughout her entire career. She was the kind of Representative every American would be lucky to have. “After over 30 years of service, Louise was a giant in Rochester, throughout the State of New York, and in Congress. She was a role model for me when I started serving in the House. She was intelligent, tenacious, and principled. But she also had an incredible sense of humor, a disarming smile, and a talent for working with members of the New York delegation on both sides of the aisle. “I wish Rep. Slaughter’s family well during this difficult time. She will be sorely missed.”
03.14.2018	Priorities Report Details Policy Proposals Maloney Will Fight to Include in Bill Newburgh, NY – After meeting with his Agriculture Advisory Board and local experts on the Supplementary Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released a report detailing his priorities for the 2018 Farm Bill. Rep. Maloney hopes to build on his successes in the 2014 version of the bill, considered one of the best ever for Hudson Valley farmers. “The Agriculture Committee is stacked with folks who represent big, Midwestern grain farms and that’s not what we have in the Hudson Valley – so if I’m not down there fighting for our farmers in the Black Dirt for instance, no one is,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “It’s easy to just read some stuffy report put out by a Washington think tank, but the rubber hits the road on Hudson Valley farms, and my advisory board gives me the best ideas for what I can do down in Washington to help our farmers.” Rep. Maloney worked alongside his Agriculture Advisory Board and local hunger experts to formulate the report. Rep. Maloney’s priorities for the 2018 Farm Bill include: improving the Crop Insurance program for diverse farms like those in the Hudson Valley; supporting specialty crop producers, which generate nearly $1.4 billion for New York’s economy every year; increasing access to credit for small family farms and new farmers through legislation like Rep. Maloney’s Young and Beginning Farmers Act; investing in agricultural research like efforts to combat the Allium Leafminer; protecting the SNAP program for low-income working families; expanding the distribution of locally-grown food by including legislation like Rep. Maloney’s Local FARMS Act; reducing regulations on farmers; protecting conservation programs; and fighting the opioid epidemic in rural communities through USDA rural development programs. The full report is available here. Rep. Maloney worked to deliver on key priorities in the 2014 Farm Bill, including the first piece of legislation he wrote, the Creating Reliability for Our Producers (CROP) Act. The provision helps specialty crop producers protect their livelihoods from disasters by investing in the development of new and improved insurance plans for underserved crops like those found in the Hudson Valley. The legislation also invests in the development of whole farm insurance, designed to assist smaller, diversified farms like those in the Hudson Valley. It will also invest in the development of weather based plans that can help farmers manage their risks from weather-related events like flooding. The 2014 Farm Bill also ordered the Secretary of Agriculture to work with farmers in the Black Dirt Region, streamlined conservation programs, helped organic farmers, improved local food distribution, provided assistance to young farmers, and prioritized research on Lyme disease.
03.13.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) is encouraged by the final Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) report issued by the Coast Guard after its comprehensive review of safety risks on the Hudson River. The report does not include a recommendation that any new anchorage sites be constructed. The PAWSA process was initiated after Rep. Maloney worked alongside local groups to kill an initial proposal made in 2016. The proposal would have allowed the installation of ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston, including 42 long-term berths which could be used for oil storage. “I said we would kill the initial anchorage plan and we did – the PAWSA report confirms that it should stay dead,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’ll keep watching this situation like a hawk – and I won’t let up until we’re certain that the river is safe from new anchorages.” “Scenic Hudson is pleased to see that the Coast Guard is not recommending establishment of new anchorages along the Hudson in its PAWSA report,” said Scenic Hudson President Ned Sullivan. “The workshops established that there is no need for new designated anchorages and that safety on the river can be enhanced through other measures that would not damage the Hudson’s natural resources, community assets and regional economy. However, the report also indicates that the Coast Guard has not yet made any decisions on whether to move forward with anchorages in the future. We must stay vigilant to ensure that the damaging proposal for new anchorages is not revived. We thank Congressman Maloney for his strong leadership on this issue.” "The result of the PAWSA is a welcome next step toward resolving the very contentious proposal by the tug and barge industry for new anchorages on the Hudson,” said Riverkeeper President Paul Gallay. “The Coast Guard specifically defers any discussion or decision on additional anchorages to a later date. Whether or not a new anchorage proposal is ever put forward, it's clear that any new regulations will involve public comment. We hope that the public will remain very much engaged in speaking up for the protection of the river as the process moves forward. Once again, we appreciate the methodical, transparent approach the Coast Guard has taken regarding the ongoing anchorage debate." The final PAWSA report makes three key recommendations, but falls short of suggesting the installation of any new anchorage sites. According to the report, the three most significant recommendations include: creating a Hudson River Safety Committee, increasing recreational boating safety information, and clarifying existing regulations. The PAWSA process was initiated after Rep. Maloney fought to kill the initial proposal. He also demanded that local residents be given a chance to voice their opinion. After holding two public workshops, the Coast Guard issued a final report which is in-line with the nearly unanimous local opinion that no new anchorages should be established on the Hudson River. In 2016, the Coast Guard issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which would have allowed the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. The sites would hold a total of 43 berths, including 42 long-term berths, for barges travelling downriver to the Port of New York. Rep. Maloney expressed strong opposition to this proposal in Congressional hearings and demanded local stakeholders have a greater say in the process. The Coast Guard agreed to the request and extended the public comment period for the proposal. After receiving approximately 10,000 negative comments and overwhelming bipartisan opposition, the Coast Guard relented. Rep. Maloney announced in June 2017 that the Coast Guard had suspended its proposal and instead opted to hold a series of PAWSA workshops. The aim of these workshops was to get a comprehensive look at the need for such a proposal as the result of safety concerns and seek out local input before proceeding with any possible future proposals. The PAWSA workshops for the Hudson River were held on November 7-8 in Poughkeepsie and November 15-16 in Albany. In 1996, Congress directed the U.S. Coast Guard “to identify minimum user requirements for new Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) systems in consultation with local officials, waterways users and port authorities.” As a result, the Coast Guard created the PAWSA process, which was established to open a dialogue with waterway users and stakeholders. In July, 2017, Rep. Maloney announced his “Maloney Principles” for evaluating the PAWSA process for the Hudson River, which included a focus on facts, the inclusion of local perspectives and environmental concerns, and a commitment to transparency. Two pieces of Rep. Maloney’s legislation to stop future anchorage proposals passed the House of Representatives last year: The Anchorages Away Act would require the Coast Guard, within 180 days of passage, to submit a report to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the impacts of proposed anchorages on existing superfund sites and habitats of endangered species, as well as the Coast Guard’s response to these concerns. The legislation would also bar the Coast Guard from establishing any new anchorages between Yonkers and Kingston until 180 days after the report is submitted. The bill passed the House as part of the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act in July. Rep. Maloney also successfully passed an amendment through the House of Representatives in September, which would defund any attempts to fund potential future anchorage sites between Yonkers and Kingston. The amendment passed as part of the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2018.
03.13.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) is again inviting Hudson Valley high school artists to submit their work to his office for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Winning students will have their art displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for an entire year. Rep. Maloney’s office will accept artwork until April 20, 2018. The winning candidate will be announced at an awards ceremony in the Hudson Valley this spring and also honored in Washington, D.C. in June. “We’ve got a long tradition of talented artists in the Hudson Valley and I really look forward to checking out the work that local students submit,” said Rep. Maloney. “I hope every young artist in the area will consider sending in their work for the competition.” All submissions of student artwork must be framed, and a Student Information and Release Form should be dropped off to Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh Office located at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY. The competition is open to high school students, but exceptions may be made for schools that have grades 7th through 12th on one campus. Contestants will compete with other students from the district and the winning student will also be recognized at an awards ceremony in Washington, DC in June. The winning piece will be chosen by a panel of local judges in the Hudson Valley. Additionally, all pieces submitted will be posted on Rep. Maloney’s Facebook page for a period of one week starting on April 23rd and the work with the most “likes” will receive a separate award as the social media champion. All participants will be recognized at a reception hosted by Rep. Maloney this spring. All other relevant information can be found on Rep. Maloney’s website. The grand prize winning artwork will be displayed in the Capitol for one year and the winning student, plus one guest, will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception in June. You can view last year’s art competition entries on Rep. Maloney’s Facebook page. All entries must be submitted by Friday, April 20, 2018. For further information, contact Maria Ingrassia by phone at 845-561-1259 or email Maria.Ingrassia@mail.house.gov.
03.09.2018	Newburgh, NY — After the Hudson Valley lost two legendary former Congressmen over the past year and a half, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced two new pieces of legislation that would recognize the beloved Representatives by adding their names to local landmarks. Rep. Maloney is joined on the legislation by Rep. Peter King (R-NY), who came to Congress at the same time as Rep. Maurice Hinchey and served alongside Rep. Gilman. The Maurice Hinchey Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area To honor Rep. Hinchey’s commitment to our natural world, Rep. Maloney announced a bill to add Rep. Hinchey’s name to the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area. “Maurice Hinchey served with passion and dignity and real heart,” said Rep. Maloney. “There was nothing more important to Mr. Hinchey than the natural area we live in – and it’s my honor to introduce this legislation to immortalize him by adding his name to the Hudson River Valley Heritage Area that he created.” “The Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area was one of Maurice’s proudest achievements. He carried a profound love, understanding, and respect for our environment and our area’s deep cultural heritage, which he knew we needed to protect for generations. Naming the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area – a landscape that defines America - in his honor is something our family will cherish for generations to come, and we know that if he were here today, he would be incredibly humbled and proud. We sincerely thank Rep. Maloney and everyone else involved in making this happen for such an incredible tribute to Maurice’s legacy,” said the Hinchey Family in a statement. “The Hudson River and our area’s natural resources are some of our greatest assets, and we have a duty to protect and preserve them,” said New York State Senator Sue Serino. “Congressman Hinchey made the preservation of our environment a priority throughout his career in public service and his dedication to that cause has played a direct role in helping to preserve so much of what makes our area great. Today, I am proud to join with members of our community to honor that work, and to help build on that legacy by reaffirming our commitment to protecting preserving our natural environment so that it can be enjoyed for generations to come.” “The late Congressman Maurice Hinchey dedicated his life and public service to the protection of our environment,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “It is fitting that such a beautiful area in our Hudson River Valley is dedicated in his memory that continues to live on.” Former Rep. Maurice Hinchey died in November of 2017 after serving the Hudson Valley in Congress for years. One of his greatest legacies is his commitment to cleaning up the Hudson River and protecting the environment, including authoring the bill that established the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area. The Benjamin Gilman Post Office in Middletown To honor Rep. Glman’s decades of service and dedication to Middletown, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney announced legislation to add Rep. Gilman’s name to the Middletown Post Office at 40 Fulton Street. “Ben Gilman was one of the good ones – he was committed to his country and the community here in Middletown – from his time serving during World War II to his time serving in Congress,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s my honor to introduce this bill to memorialize Rep. Gilman – who was a staunch advocate for the United States Postal Service.” “On behalf of our entire family, I would like to thank Congressman Maloney for honoring my husband, Ben, in such a thoughtful and meaningful way,” said Georgia Gilman, Rep. Gilman’s widow. “Middletown was always the place Ben called home; it is where he got his start in politics, where he and I first met and where he learned some of the most valuable lessons of life. Most importantly, that every day was a new opportunity and at some point you should be able to do something good for someone.” “This is an honor that would have delighted Mr. Gilman, not because of seeing his name on a building but because he so fervently believed in the ability of the Postal Service to bind our nation together,” said Rich Mayfield, District Director for Rep. Gilman. “The Postal Service is the only federal agency that touches every American and it has been that way since Ben Franklin was appointed the first Postmaster General. Many thanks to Congressman Maloney for introducing this legislation in honor of Mr. Gilman’s years in Congress. It is gratifying to know that future generations will be reminded of his hard work and love for the people of Middletown.” “Ben Gilman was a public servant through and through,” said New York State Assemblywoman Aileen Gunther. “Even with all his achievements and accolades, he never forgot where he came from, and never forgot the people he was fighting for.” “I would like to thank Congressman Maloney for his efforts in naming the Middletown Post Office after a local political legend, Congressman Ben Gilman,” said Middletown Mayor Joe DeStefano. “Ben’s work in our community extended far beyond politics and his selfless dedication to the people of our community deserves to be recognized with this tremendous honor.” Rep. Ben Gilman died in December of 2016, after representing the Middletown area in Congress for 30 years, including time serving as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Although he rose to national prominence in this position, Rep. Gilman was renowned for his commitment to local communities in Orange County, especially Middletown. He served on the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee and believed that the mail was the one part of government that touched every American.
03.08.2018	Newburgh, NY — After holding an in-person community forum on gun violence in our schools attended by hundreds of Hudson Valley residents, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will hold three more events this coming weekend in response to popular demand. Rep. Maloney’s community forums on gun violence provide folks in the Hudson Valley the opportunity to connect with their Representative in-person to voice their concerns, offer suggestions, and ask questions about the status of gun safety efforts in Congress. “We keep getting requests to hold more forums, so we’re going to be responsive to that and give as many people as possible a chance to make their voices heard on this critical safety issue,” said Rep. Maloney. “I look forward to connecting with even more folks in the Hudson Valley to hear ideas and answer questions.” Brewster Forum Saturday, March 10, 2018 2:00 – 3:00 PM Sheet Metal Workers’ Union 38, Craft Training Building Fund, 38 Starr Ridge Rd, Brewster, NY 10509 Middletown Forum Sunday, March 11, 2018 12:00 - 1:00 PM Middletown High School, 24 Gardner Ext Ave, Middletown, NY 10940 Beacon Forum Sunday, March 11, 2018 3:30 – 4:30 PM Howland Cultural Center, 477 Main St., Beacon NY 12508 Over 200 people attended Rep. Maloney’s community forum on gun violence in our schools last Saturday in Poughkeepsie. After the event, several individuals contacted Rep. Maloney’s office and requested that he hold additional events to give more people in the Hudson Valley the opportunity to weigh in on this important and timely issue. Rep. Maloney supports strong federal efforts to combat the gun violence epidemic, including: banning assault weapons, raising the purchasing age, improving the National Instant Background Check System (NICS), implementing universal background checks and closing the gun show loophole, as well as repealing the Dickey Amendment, which has prevented research on gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON — After reports broke last week that President Trump was whipping congressional Republicans against funding the comprehensive Gateway rail project, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today grilled Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao regarding the White House’s efforts to kill the project. The Gateway Program is a comprehensive project of strategic rail infrastructure upgrades designed to improve current services and create new capacity that will allow the doubling of passenger trains running under the Hudson River. During the hearing, Secretary Chao confirmed that the President was personally working to kill the project. Click here to watch the exchange between Rep. Maloney and Secretary Chao. “According to Secretary Chao, the President is personally intervening to kill the most important infrastructure project in America because of a personal feud, and that’s pretty shameful,” said Rep. Maloney. “The President’s own transition team said Gateway would create over 30,000 jobs in the New York metro and should be our country’s top priority – this is just crazy.” Currently, only two rail tunnels under the Hudson River connect New York’s Penn Station to New Jersey’s Penn Station. The tubes are used by both Amtrak and New Jersey Transit. The existing tubes are over 100 years old and were damaged by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. If one of the two tubes is forced to close for repairs, rail capacity through the tunnels would be reduced by 75%. Gateway will increase capacity on tracks, tunnels, bridges, and stations, eventually create four new tracks, including a new two-track Hudson River tunnel. The program would also modernize other failing infrastructure including electrical systems and bridges. In November 2015, Governors Chris Christie (NJ) and Andrew Cuomo (NY), U.S. Senators, Amtrak, and the United States Department of Transportation announced an agreement that the states would cover half the cost of the project, and Amtrak and the federal government would provide funding for the other half. But, in December 2017, acting Federal Transit Administrator K. Jane Williams said in a letter to the Governors that the funding agreement was “nonexistent.” Last week, President Trump reportedly encouraged Republicans to oppose funding for the Gateway project. Gateway is essential not only to the New York metropolitan economy, but also the greater NEC. The Corridor’s commuter and intercity rail services move 750,000 people each day and moves a workforce that contributes $50 billion annually to the American economy. Per the Trump transition team's own estimates, the Gateway project's completion would create 15,000 jobs directly and another 19,000 indirectly, with an average salary of $73,000 per year. Orange County in Rep. Maloney’s Hudson Valley district relies on connections to New Jersey Transit to commute to and from New York City, including the aging tunnels under the Hudson River.
03.01.2018	Poughkeepsie, NY — After a school shooter at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida killed 17 children, and the threat of gun violence closed Poughkeepsie Public Schools for two days, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will hold a public forum on gun violence in schools with students, parents, teachers and law enforcement officials. Rep. Maloney has received invitations to various “March for Our Lives” events around the Hudson Valley as well as letters from high school students asking for meetings regarding gun violence. The forum will be held this Saturday, March 3rd from 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM at the Family Partnership Center Auditorium at 29 North Hamilton Street, Poughkeepsie, NY 12601. “After all these shootings across the country, the threat of gun violence is now hitting very close to home and we just have to get the community together to address it,” said Rep. Maloney. “I look forward to meeting with folks from across the Hudson Valley this weekend to hear their ideas for making our schools safer.” Rep. Maloney supports federal efforts to combat the gun violence epidemic, including: improving the National Instant Background Check System (NICS), implementing universal background checks and closing the gun show loophole, as well as repealing the Dickey Amendment, which has prevented research on gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Rep. Maloney has cosponsored several bills to achieve these goals, but is also interested in hearing from members of the community on additional measures that should be taken to protect our children. Rep. Maloney also met with students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in his Washington office this week. In addition to posting event information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information will be made public on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email, and many interested constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event.
02.26.2018	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced two new bills to support career and technical education (CTE) opportunities for educators in America’s fastest-growing career fields. The bills would provide resources that assist prospective CTE teachers to afford the rising costs of higher education, enhance opportunities for collaboration between industry leaders and CTE educators, and fund the expansion of CTE programs at colleges and universities nationwide. “Especially in this growing job sector, we need to make sure the next generation of American workers are ready to compete in the changing, 21st century economy – the best way to do that is to invest in our workers here at home and provide them with world-class educational opportunities,” said Rep. Maloney. “My bills will do just that by providing our CTE teachers with the tools and training they need to effectively teach in this rapidly-changing field.” “With more than 2 million people expected to retire out of the manufacturing sector in the next 10 years, plus an additional 700,000 new jobs expected to be created American manufacturers will need to fill an estimated 3 million jobs by 2027,” said Harold King, Executive Vice President, Council of Industry. “For that to happen we need vibrant and successful Career and Technical Education programs, and for those programs to be vibrant and successful we need to invest in CTE teachers. Congressman Maloney clearly understands the importance of this issue to Hudson Valley Manufacturers and we appreciate his leadership.” “As a student in high school, I struggled with academics and it was through the career program of Practical Nursing, that I was able to make connections between what I was learning and the professional career path I wanted to take. It was through the Career and Technical Education Teachers that I was able to gain confidence, connect the dots, and apply the academic through skill in a clinical setting,” said Linda Romano, a teacher at Newburgh Free Academy and 2018 National ACTE Teacher of the Year. “In addition, my successful completion of the Practical Nurse program, while still in high school was the encouragement I needed to attend college and continue my education. Career and Technical Education helps students make connections and fill gaps of learning. Educators are in short supply, come from industry, and need support to close their gap from industry to an education environment. Creating opportunity for education in a variety of settings helps meet these growing needs, closes the gaps, and ensures that we have well educated, skilled workers who have dedication, compassion, and ability to meet the challenges of tomorrow.” The Technical Educator Development Act of 2018 – will provide opportunities for career and technical education teachers to gain hands-on experience using industry-specific technologies and programs, which is especially important because of how rapidly the relevant technology is changing. These practices will ensure that CTE teachers can keep up with industry standards, provide relevant instruction, and help students to become competitive candidates in the 21st century workforce. The Skilled Labor Education Act of 2018 – will provide $50 million in service scholarships over five years to help prepare career and technical education teachers, provide up to $1 million in funding to help post-secondary schools expand their CTE capacity, and extend Perkins Loan cancellation benefits for part-time teachers. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projects that the fastest growing careers between 2016-2026 will be in CTE-related fields such as healthcare, science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), manufacturing, infrastructure and information technology (IT). While CTE continues to play a vital role in the development of skilled workers of all ages, studies show that many secondary programs are struggling to attract qualified CTE teachers. As these sectors continue to grow, more educators will be necessary to instruct the next generation of skilled workers. Rep. Maloney’s package of bills will focus on supporting teachers like Newburgh Free Academy’s Linda Romano, national CTE teacher of the year. Additionally, local colleges like SUNY Orange, SUNY Dutchess and Mount Saint Mary could all benefit from the grant program included in the Skilled Labor Education Act, which will allow these institutions to grow expand their CTE capacity and produce our country’s next generation of CTE educators.
02.22.2018	Newburgh, NY – After the New York State Department of Health (DOH) announced it had uncovered serious violations at Sapphire Nursing and Rehab in Goshen, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Assemblyman James Skoufis asked the department to broaden its investigation to include all Sapphire facilities in the Hudson Valley. Rep. Maloney’s office has continued to receive complaints about Sapphire’s facility in Fishkill similar to those he received about the facility in Goshen. “The State’s investigation confirmed some of our worst fears in Goshen, and we’re hearing similar complaints about the facility in Fishkill – it looks like we’re seeing a pattern of neglect and understaffing that is absolutely unacceptable,” said Rep. Maloney. “We need DOH on the ground at all Sapphire facilities to ensure our seniors are getting the care they need and that Sapphire is complying with the law.” “Sadly, it appears the neglect and severe understaffing at the Goshen facility may be part of a pattern of mismanagement by Sapphire,” said Assemblyman James Skoufis. “Last week, the state Department of Health confirmed many of our worst fears about the conditions in Goshen. They must continue to be held accountable. Furthermore, I join Congressman Maloney in urging the state to look into Sapphire’s other Hudson Valley facilities to ensure our seniors receive the care they deserve and our families know their loved ones are in good hands.” In January, Rep. Maloney and Assemblyman James Skoufis asked the Department of Health to investigate Sapphire Nursing and Rehab in Goshen after receiving numerous complaints. Although the investigation was ongoing, on February 12, the lawmakers then asked Sapphire for a formal response to a number of questions raised by constituents, Sapphire employees, and the Times Herald-Record newspaper. In response to that letter, Sapphire allowed the officials and a journalist to tour their facility. On February 16, the DOH released a statement chastising Sapphire in Goshen, and providing the facility a week to offer a plan to come into compliance with relevant laws. Rep. Maloney’s office has received several additional complaints about a second facility in Fishkill in Dutchess County. In addition to the Goshen and Fishkill facilities, Sapphire operates nursing homes in Wappingers Falls and Newburgh. In 2017, Sapphire acquired four nursing homes in the Hudson Valley formerly operated by Elant, a nonprofit group. Since taking over the facilities, Sapphire’s facility in Goshen has been criticized for cutting its nursing staff by 54% and failing to provide adequate hydration, nutrition, and hygienic care. The text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Commissioner Zucker, We write today to thank you for your outstanding work investigating the Sapphire Nursing and Rehab facility in Goshen, NY. Your leadership is exemplary, and we appreciate your focus on protecting the health and wellbeing of seniors. We’re also writing today to ask for a comprehensive, system-wide investigation of Sapphire Nursing and Rehab facilities in the Hudson Valley. We have continued to receive complaints from residents of other Sapphire facilities consistent with the violations found in Goshen. This appears to be part of a wider pattern of mismanagement and neglect which threatens the safety of Sapphire residents throughout New York. Your investigation confirmed horrifying reports we received from constituents concerned about their loved ones. But, it appears the issues with Sapphire may not be isolated to the facility in Goshen. These complaints include similar issues including: Dangerous levels of understaffing Issues with caring for residents’ hygiene, including failure to promptly change soiled clothing Failure to provide proper nutrition and hydration Your investigation confirmed some of our worst fears about the Goshen facility. We cannot allow similar violations to continue at other Sapphire sites. We ask that you conduct formal investigations at all other Sapphire-owned properties in New York. Our offices would be happy to provide any assistance necessary to ensure our seniors receive proper care.
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON – After recent train accidents were found to be positive train control (PTC)-preventable by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) grilled federal transportation officials on the status of implementation of this critical train safety technology ahead of a 2018 deadline. Rep. Maloney, a leader on railway safety, specifically asked about implementation of PTC on Metro-North and the Long Island Railroad. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) operates both lines and secured a loan to implement PTC by the end of 2018. Click here to watch Rep. Maloney’s questioning Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, was passed by the House of Representatives in 2015. The legislation would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. Although the legislation was not signed into law, the FRA decided to voluntarily allow the use of RRIF funds for PTC implementation. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), which operates both Metro-North and the Long Island Railroad, received a loan through the RRIF program in 2015 to implement the technology to meet the December, 2018 deadline for implementation. December’s Amtrak derailment in Washington State was ruled to be PTC-preventable, and caused by speeding around a known high-hazard curve. Rep. Maloney has also passed legislation to require railroads to reduce risks around these curves. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 was signed into law, which requires passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify high-hazard curves, like those involved in the Spuyten Duyvil and Philadelphia train derailments, and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installing of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication.
02.13.2018	Wappingers Falls, NY – After collecting over 6,000 valentines from individuals, businesses, and other organizations across the Hudson Valley, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) capped off his 4th annual Valentines for Veterans program by personally hand-delivering these valentines to veterans at the Castle Point VA. Rep. Maloney is a tireless advocate for veterans, returning over $6.7 million to Hudson Valley veterans owed payment from the federal government, and passing five veterans bills into law. “I’ll take any chance I can get to honor our veterans, especially if it gives me the opportunity to involve the wider Hudson Valley community – the vets get a big kick out of it,” said Rep. Maloney, whose father was a veteran. “We help veterans all the time with cutting through red tape and passing legislation, but even just delivering valentines brightens their day and shows our appreciation for their service and sacrifice.” Dozens of schools, scouting troops, and businesses from across the State of New York and across the Hudson Valley participated in the event and sent in thousands of valentines over the past month. Walden Savings Bank in Orange County alone sent over 2,000 valentines. Rep. Maloney was joined at the event by Cadets from the United States Military Academy Preparatory School and a local barbershop quartet.
02.13.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement as Orange County announced it would respond to his request to provide funding to prevent impending layoffs at the Newburgh Fire Department. Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $5 million for the Newburgh Fire Department since taking office in 2013. Much of this funding has allowed the department to expand its size-of-force and prevent layoffs. "I'm pleased the County Executive has heard my warning that five years of federal support secured by my office is coming to an end. It's high time the county recognized the critical role these firefighters play in the security of eastern Orange County, as their heroic response to the recent Verla fire more than demonstrated. This needs to be a permanent commitment." In 2013, shortly after Rep. Maloney took office, the department applied for its first SAFER grant, but was initially denied. Rep. Maloney then worked with the department to ensure they received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.4 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. In 2015, when the initial round of funding ran out and the department faced twelve potential layoffs, Rep. Maloney urged FEMA to approve another SAFER grant to prevent a potential round of layoffs and hire six additional firefighters. In July 2016, Rep. Maloney announced that FEMA had agreed to provide a rarely-awarded second SAFER grant worth $2,061,516 to fund these positions into July 2018. At the end of last year, the City of Newburgh announced that its budget would not include funding to retain a dozen firefighters. If the City did not reverse course, twelve firefighters, including one injured in the Verla fire, would be laid off. On February 1st, Rep. Maloney stood with the Newburgh Fire Department to call on local officials to provide additional funding to prevent layoffs.
02.12.2018	Goshen, NY – After Sapphire Nursing and Rehab has failed to respond to questions regarding staffing and nutrition at their facilities, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Assemblyman James Skoufis have directly asked the facility’s Director Audrey Lewin for answers. In a letter dated February 12th, the lawmakers requested a response to questions from constituents, Sapphire employees, and the Times Herald-Record newspaper. “I’m thrilled DOH is looking into this, but in the meantime, families shouldn’t have to wait for an investigation just to get answers on whether or not their folks are getting the care they need,” said Rep. Maloney. “We should have heard from Sapphire about this last month, and I still have concerned constituents reaching out to me – time’s up.” “For the sake of residents and their families, I call on Sapphire to respond to our questions about the recent staffing cuts and what impact they may have on nutrition and the overall quality of care,” said Skoufis. “I’ve heard from many constituents who are concerned about the safety and well-being of their loved ones, and feel left in the dark by Sapphire. As the state Department of Health conducts its investigation, families need answers now to ensure that these seniors are receiving the top-notch care they deserve.” Sapphire Nursing and Rehab, which operates facilities throughout the Hudson Valley, has reportedly laid off 54% of its nursing workforce over the past months. In January, Rep. Maloney and Assemblyman Skoufis sent a joint letter to New York State Department of Health (DOH) Commissioner Howard Zucker, requesting an investigation into the conditions at the facility. The Department of Health has initiated an investigation, but Sapphire has still failed to respond to press inquiries or provide a statement on the state of affairs at the facility. Rep. Maloney and Assemblyman Skoufis have received complaints from family members of the Goshen facility’s residents that their loved ones are not receiving proper nutrition. The full text of the letter is below and a digital copy is available here. Mrs. Lewin, We write today to ask for clarification on a number of concerns regarding your facility in Goshen. Family members of those receiving services at the facility, your own employees, and the Times Herald-Record newspaper have all raised important questions regarding staffing and proper nutrition at the facility. Those questions have thus far gone unanswered. With regard to staffing, we have received information from the previously named sources that Sapphire has cut the number of nurses at the facility by 54%, including layoffs of 12 registered nurses (RNs). Reducing staff capacity by half obviously impacts your organization’s ability to provide necessary services to your residents. With regard to nutrition, we’ve received complaints that some of the folks at your facility have gone without necessary nutrition. As you know, this is a serious concern as many seniors have specific dietary needs. On behalf of our constituents, we request answers on both of these pressing issues. We are well aware that the New York State Department of Health is conducting a comprehensive investigation, but in the meantime, the families of folks at your facilities should not have to wait and worry about the level of care being provided to their loved ones. The public has a right to know whether or not some of the most vulnerable members of our community are receiving the health care services and nutrition they deserve.
02.12.2018	Middletown, NY – After six people in Orange County died of drug overdoses over the past two weeks, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the Stop Online Opioid Sales Act to require the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to collect information on online drug sales and issue an annual report to inform a solution to combating the problem. Because there is no comprehensive reporting on the sale of drugs through the internet, the Senate investigated the issue and last month issued a report indicating that Americans acquired $800 million in fentanyl from China alone over the past two years. “We’ve lost six people to overdoses in Orange County over just two weeks – we have to use all the tools we can to fight the heroin and opioid epidemic – and that includes fighting online drug sales,” said Rep. Maloney. “My bill will get us the information we need to tackle this problem.” “Combatting the nationwide opioid epidemic requires innovative solutions, and I commend Congressman Maloney for his approach to tackling the persistent problem related to the internet sales of fentanyl and other harmful opioids,” said New York State Senator John Bonacic. “As a member of the State Senate’s heroin task force, I am committed to working with my partners at the local, state and federal level to end this terrible epidemic.” "The opioid epidemic remains a major focus for my agency, and I will continue to devote significant resources to do whatever we can to help keep our community safe," said Middletown Police Chief John Ewanciw. " The complexities involved in targeting opioid distributors and providing treatment to those addicted to these dangerous drugs, requires us to take a multi-faceted approach. Congressman Maloney’s legislation is just one more tool that we can utilize to try and keep opioids from reaching our streets. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman’s Maloney in the future." “I was very happy to be a part of this event and I am thrilled with this piece of legislation,” said Stephanie Keegan, whose son Daniel, a deceased veteran, ordered drugs online. “I think it will go a long way to slowing down the influx of drugs provided through the internet.” Federal agencies have not released information on the prevalence of opioid sales online, but last month, a bipartisan coalition of Senators released a 100-page report indicating that online fentanyl sales from China alone totaled over $800 million. Although this problem is expected to be growing, lawmakers lack the detailed reporting necessary to inform a comprehensive action plan. One of the largest barriers to combating international online sales is U.S. Customs and Border Patrol’s reliance on foreign partners to provide advanced information on shipping data. Many nations are unable to provide this information, and Customs is required to manually inspect suspect packages at nine facilities throughout the country as a result. The Stop Online Opioid Sales Act would require the DEA to compile a comprehensive report on the sale of drugs online within a year, and to continue to issue annual reports containing this information. Reports must include the types and amounts of controlled substances sold online, the name of each entity or person selling them, and an estimate of the revenue being generated through these illegal channels. Understanding the extent of the problem of online drug sales is necessary to inform the direction of federal resources and law enforcement techniques for combating it. Rep. Maloney is a leader in the fight on the heroin and opioid epidemic. He is also the sponsor of the Lifesaving Librarians Act and the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act.
02.08.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he will hold his first round of town halls of 2018 this weekend in Orange and Westchester Counties. Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has hosted 72 in person town halls at home in the Hudson Valley, including 15 just last year. “After this terrible tax bill and drunken-sailor budget deal, I want to make sure I’m around to answer questions for folks at home,” said Rep. Maloney. “These are complex issues that will affect people in a lot of different ways, and part of what I get paid for is being available to the people I represent.” Speak with Sean events give folks in the Hudson Valley an opportunity to personally connect with their Representative to ask questions, express opinions, and get help with federal agencies. This week, Rep. Maloney also held a telephone town hall with over 10,000 seniors to answer questions ahead of changes to Medicare cards and numbers. In addition to posting “Speak with Sean” information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information has been made public on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email and many constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event being held in their area. Rep. Maloney will hold three town halls this weekend, including: Newburgh Town Hall/Neighborhood Office Hours Saturday, February 10, 2018 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM The Ritz Theater, 107 Broadway, Newburgh, NY 12550 Florida Town Hall/Neighborhood Office Hours Saturday, February 10, 2018 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM Seward Senior Center, Cohen Circle, Florida, NY 10921 Pound Ridge Town Hall/Neighborhood Office Hours Sunday, February 11, 2018, 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM Pound Ridge Town Hall, 179 Westchester Avenue, Pound Ridge, NY 10576
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has requested that the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform investigate the White House’s knowledge of Rob Porter’s background and its decision to allow him to handle classified material for over a year while easily compromised and without a permanent security clearance. Rep. Maloney served as Staff Secretary during the Clinton Administration between 1999-2000 and as Deputy Staff Secretary from 1997-1999. “This news is troubling for a number of reasons,” said Rep. Maloney. “I am sickened by Mr. Porter’s actions and my heart goes out to these women and their families. Additionally, serving in the White House is a tremendous honor and we must expect better from individuals in these positions. I’m shocked that someone with that kind of background could have held this position for over a year. As someone who has served as Staff Secretary, I know the kind of sensitive national security information you’re exposed to and it’s absolutely unacceptable that someone so easily compromised would only now be stepping down. “It’s unclear what kind of vetting process was followed in this case, and the Oversight Committee needs to open an investigation into this situation immediately. It seems clear that Chief of Staff John Kelly had knowledge of these disqualifying issues and nevertheless allowed Porter to handle top secret materials without a proper clearance. I had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Porter and sought his help on behalf of my constituents on more than one occasion. He was responsive and professional. But I am deeply troubled.” In a letter to Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy dated February 7, Rep. Maloney called the situation disturbing and asked that the Committee open a formal inquiry into the events surrounding the former Staff Secretary’s employment. Although Mr. Porter handled top secret information, he did not possess a security clearance. Additionally, his abuse of two of his ex-wives made him a prime target for blackmail. Multiple sources have indicated that senior White House aides were aware of Mr. Porter’s personal history for months, but allowed him to retain the position anyway. Rob Porter served as Staff Secretary starting in January 2017. Two of his ex-wives told publications they had been severely abused by Mr. Porter and provided photographs to corroborate their claims. The text of the letter is below and the original is available here. Dear Chairman Gowdy, I am deeply disturbed by details of former Staff Secretary Rob Porter’s resignation. According to reports, two former wives of Mr. Porter have come forward with credible allegations of physical and emotional abuse. One of the women filed a restraining order against Mr. Porter. These charges are alarming because this conduct is beneath the office of Staff Secretary but also because it raises very serious national security concerns. These allegations were brought to light by the FBI background examination required to obtain the security clearance necessary for the Staff Secretary role. Shockingly, reports indicate that Chief of Staff John Kelly had knowledge of these disqualifying issues prior to the investigation and nevertheless allowed Porter to handle top secret materials without a proper clearance. As a former White House Staff Secretary, I am acutely aware of the unique responsibilities the position demands. I have serious questions about the decision to allow Mr. Porter to retain his job for over a year as well as the process of extending to him any level of interim security clearance. Mr. Porter’s history made him a primary target for blackmail while serving in the role. Allowing him to handle sensitive national security documents without conducting a background check is cause for bipartisan concern. Therefore, I request that the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform investigate the events surrounding Mr. Porter’s employment, security clearance and resignation.
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement of opposition to the proposed Senate budget deal. The legislation would add billions of dollars to the deficit - on top of over $1.5 trillion added by the tax bill which created new trillion-dollar annual deficits. "When it comes to the budget, both parties agree on only one thing: being irresponsible. This isn't compromise, it's collusion; it's not bipartisan, it's a pay-off. This is drunken-sailor spending that comes right after Republicans in Washington put trillions in new debt on our country’s credit card. They continue to kick the can down the road when we should tackle our problems now — from the deficit to the Dreamers. “This budget-busting deal is bad for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley. Count me out."
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after opposing the sixth short-term spending bill offered by Congressional Republicans since September. “We’re close on a real budget deal which will provide the long-term solutions we need to fix the problems Americans are facing. I’m not going to support another short-term bill that doesn’t have a snowball’s chance in hell of being signed into law – especially when it doesn’t provide the resources we need to take care of our veterans, fight the opioid epidemic and provide emergency disaster relief while leaving hundreds of thousands of Dreamers out in the cold. This thing is a fantasy.”
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he will hold a live telephone town hall with Hudson Valley seniors on Wednesday, February 7th at 9:30 AM to give older Americans a chance to make their voices heard on important issues and get help cutting through red tape at federal agencies. Rep. Maloney will be joined on the call by experts on Medicare and veterans benefits, who can provide additional assistance. “With small but important changes coming to Medicare, I want to make sure I touch base with older Americans in the Hudson Valley so they know what to expect,” said Rep. Maloney. “Health care, pensions, and other retirement issues are all at the forefront of my discussions down in Washington, and I always appreciate the chance to update folks at home on where things stand.” Rep. Maloney will be joined on the call by Katherine Dunphy of National Government Services, who will provide additional information on Medicare services, and Joe Corretjer from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), who will provide information on veterans benefits. On Rep. Maloney’s live telephone town halls, Hudson Valley residents can ask questions and get answers in real time, and touch base with Rep. Maloney’s office to get help with federal agencies. Since 2013, Rep. Maloney has held over 30 telephone town halls with his neighbors. Tens of thousands of area seniors will receive a call inviting them to join the event. Constituents of the 18th district can also request an invitation by calling Rep. Maloney’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-5441 or online by clicking here.
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after an Amtrak train collided with a freight train, killing two and leaving over a hundred others with injuries. This is the third passenger rail accident to occur over the last month and a half. Rep. Maloney is the author of the Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which makes additional funds available for the implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC). Investigators have determined that PTC could have prevented this accident, as well as December’s Amtrak crash in Washington State. “People are dying – we can’t wait any longer on getting PTC systems up and running nationwide. We made sure money was set aside for this purpose three years ago, but it’s up to the rail lines to actually start installing it. “One thing is for sure – time’s up – Congress has delayed this deadline time and again and we’ve seen the deadly results. We can’t drag our feet anymore, 2018 has to be a hard, legal deadline for all passenger railroads to implement PTC.” In March 2015, the House passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. Rep. Maloney is also a cosponsor of the Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act, which would prevent further delays of the 2018 deadline for implementing PTC and provide over $2.5 billion in funding to assist passenger railroads to implement the technology by the end of the year.
02.01.2018	Newburgh, NY — After the City of Newburgh announced it will not provide funding to retain twelve firefighters currently paid through federal investments, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined the Newburgh Fire Department to call on the City to reverse course and provide the funding necessary to prevent these layoffs. Rep. Maloney secured Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants for the Newburgh Fire Department in 2013 and again in 2016, which have allowed the department to hire over 30 firefighters and bring their size-of-force up to an appropriate level. “For five years, some of us have been working our hearts out to give this firehouse an adequate staffing level to protect the citizens of Newburgh and the surrounding communities – and we’ve been successful for five years,” said Rep. Maloney. “But, we’re coming to the end of the federal support available, and I don’t have a rabbit to pull out of my hat – we need our local leaders to step up, and otherwise, we’re looking at losing twelve firefighters.” “Sean Maloney has always been there to help. He keeps his office right here in our city. He helped Newburgh avoid layoffs in the past, and I know he’s working on helping the city get through this latest round,” said acting Newburgh Fire Chief Terry Ahlers. “Everyone asks what I think the results of the layoffs will be – I tell them, we already know what the results will be – our small fires will be larger, and it will take longer to get buildings opened up. But, our firefighters will still put themselves in the way of danger, to protect life and property in our city.” “In the city of Newburgh, if you call 9-11, these guys are there in two to three minutes – that’s an incredible response time, and that’s largely due to the fact that they have decent staffing right now,” said Sam Fresina, President of the New York State Professional Firefighters Association. “We take away that staffing, we’re taking away their ability to do their job correctly – and that’s going to have an effect on every resident of the City of Newburgh.” “The members of the city of Newburgh Fire Department remain committed to providing the best emergency response possible regardless of staffing levels, to best serve the community,” said Brendan Hogan, President of IAFF local 589. Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $5 million in federal investments for the Newburgh Fire Department. In 2013, shortly after Rep. Maloney took office, the department applied for its first SAFER grant, but was initially denied. Rep. Maloney then worked with the department to ensure they received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.4 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. In 2015, when the initial round of funding ran out and the department faced twelve potential layoffs, Rep. Maloney urged FEMA to approve another SAFER grant to prevent a potential round of layoffs and hire six additional firefighters. In July 2016, Rep. Maloney announced that FEMA had agreed to provide a rarely-awarded second SAFER grant worth $2,061,516 to fund these positions into July 2018. At the end of last year, the City of Newburgh announced that its budget would not include funding to retain a dozen firefighters. If the City does not reverse course, twelve firefighters, including one injured in the Verla fire, will be laid off. The SAFER program, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), was created to provide funding directly to local fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help increase or maintain the number of trained, "front line" firefighters available in their communities. In addition to avoiding lay-offs and adding new firefighters to the job, the two SAFER grants secured by Rep. Maloney have allowed the Newburgh Fire Department to put four firefighters on all trucks, providing unprecedented size-of-force, which has decreased overtime costs and increased public safety across the board. In addition, the SAFER grants have allowed the department to increase its fire prevention services and proactively fight fires before they start. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for fire departments throughout the Hudson Valley. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $10 million for Hudson Valley fire departments. Over $1 million of this funding has been directed at modernizing equipment, including protective gear, at fire districts in the Hudson Valley. Rep. Maloney also hosts an annual workshop in Newburgh to help local fire departments effectively apply to grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program.
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after a train carrying members of Congress on their way to the Republican retreat struck a garbage truck in Virginia. Only minor injuries have been reported. Rep. Maloney authored legislation passed into law in 2015 which helps states and local communities improve safety around rail-grade crossings. “I’m praying for all my colleagues and their families as well as the driver who has passed. “We’re extremely lucky that more people were not hurt, and this should serve as another wake-up call to get serious about investing in rail safety. Rail grade crossings are the site of most train-related accidents, which is why I wrote legislation to help states and local communities to make necessary safety upgrades. I hope more states take this issue seriously, and put these federal investments to use to help make these crossings safer.” The Highway-Rail Grade Crossings Safety Act of 2015 was signed into law as part of the 2015 Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. The legislation provides states and communities with more resources to prevent collisions at grade crossings and invests in protective safety devices to prevent future tragedies. States and communities can take significant steps toward making highway-rail grade crossings safer by building bridges and tunnels to separate roadways from rail track, installing improved lights and signals at crossings, and increasing public awareness of grade crossing danger.
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump delivered his first State of the Union address to a Joint Session of Congress. “The President made some promises tonight to come to the table and find bipartisan solutions to the challenges we all face together. But talk is cheap – it’s nice to hear that he wants to work together but it’s up to him to keep his word. “I’m ready and I’m willing to work with the President on helping our veterans, rebuilding our failing infrastructure, combating the opioid epidemic and finding comprehensive solutions on immigration. “When we look at these and all the other issues facing America, we can either choose to work together to actually get something done, or we can retreat to our partisan corners. But we can’t do both. I hope the President understands that, and I hope we’ll see him change course through the rest of his term and live up to the promises he made tonight.”
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in advance of President Trump’s first official State of the Union address. “President Trump has an opportunity to use this address to bring our country together and step back from some of the divisive and incendiary comments he’s made in the past. America does best when we work together – and that’s something the President has had a hard time with in his first year in office. “I hope he’ll focus on shared priorities like caring for our vets, comprehensive immigration reform, the opioid epidemic, and investing in our infrastructure. He won’t do anyone any favors by throwing bombs and pushing partisan solutions to our problems. I hope we’ll hear some calls for unity and bipartisanship.”
01.26.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to a New York Times report that President Trump ordered the termination of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III last June. According to the report, the President directed White House counsel Don McGahn to fire Mr. Mueller, but McGahn refused and threatened resignation if the President proceeded with the termination. “Since the beginning of this investigation, I’ve said we should follow the facts and let the Special Counsel do his job, so I’ll reserve judgement until we hear from him on what those facts are. Mr. Mueller has already secured indictments of, and guilty pleas from, members of the President’s inner circle, so this investigation has clearly been effective in uncovering illegal behavior. If the President is innocent of wrongdoing, he should stop acting like a guilty person and let Mueller finish his work.”
01.26.2018	Goshen, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has written a letter to the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) in support of the Orange County Industrial Development Agency’s (IDA’s) request for a federal investment to improve water and wastewater infrastructure in Goshen. The $800,000 project would fix failing well and septic systems, and allow five local retail and manufacturing businesses to maintain and expand existing operations at their current sites. “We can’t afford to lose the local businesses that power our economy because our water systems are out of date – we need this investment, and I’m proud to support the project,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “Securing federal funding is a necessary step in the process, and I’ll keep working with the folks at the Orange County IDA to make this happen.” “The Orange County Partnership team is proud to be a part of this process to provide the necessary infrastructure work to ensure the success of this corridor,” said Amanda Dana, Director Business Retention & Expansion, Orange County Partnership. “This new connection not only provides a great opportunity for commercial growth and job creation, but ensures the retention of hundreds of employees in Orange County.” The project would expand water and sewer lines along a corridor of businesses in the Town of Goshen and connect them to a municipal source provided by the Village of Goshen. The proposal, planned along route 17M, would include the installation of gravity collection systems, additional water mains, and a pump station. The investment would allow local businesses like MilMar Food Group, Healey Brothers car dealership, John Deer (Hudson River Tractor), Orange Hollow Racquetball Club, and Tool Factory Warehouse to stay in their current locations, continue with planned expansions, and hire additional employees. The Orange County IDA has applied for the U.S. EDA’s Public Works and Economic Adjustment Assistance programs, which provide a wide range of technical, planning, and public works and infrastructure assistance in regions experiencing adverse economic changes. The text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Ms. Cruz-Carnall, I write in support of the application submitted by the Orange County Industrial Development Agency to the Public Works and Economic Adjustment Assistance programs at the U.S. Economic Development Agency. As you may know, this application was submitted on behalf of the Town of Goshen in an effort to improve its water and wastewater infrastructure. The slow expansion of the water and sewer lines at the 6-1/2 Station Road commercial corridor remains a barrier to sustained regional growth. The municipal connection that this project proposes would help retain major employers throughout the region and help to spur increased economic and infrastructural development. In addition to economic revitalization, groundwater and surface water resources stand to benefit from this project as the impacted properties will route their sewer to the Village of Goshen Sewer Treatment Plant. Award of this application would provide critical infrastructure improvements to the Town of Goshen and fortify efforts to increase local commerce and economic development alike. Therefore, I ask that you give your full and fair consideration to this request. Thank you in advance for your time and effort in this regard as both are greatly appreciated.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after opposing the fifth short-term spending bill offered by Congressional Republicans in as many months. “This isn’t a budget, it’s a stalling tactic. It doesn’t do anything to solve the long-term issues that should have been addressed in September and it continues to hurt our military because it fails to provide the funding the Defense Department needs to plan for the future. Don’t take my word for it – Defense Secretary Mattis has said that, “no enemy in the field has done more to harm the readiness of the U.S. military” than short-term measures like this. “Millions of people are counting on us to do our jobs – from the brave servicemembers deployed all over the world – to the families in the Hudson Valley struggling with opioid addiction – to the hundreds of thousands of Dreamers who have had their lives turned upside down. “We shouldn’t be leaving town without a solution to these problems. This is more proof that Congressional Republicans are not taking this stuff seriously and leaving millions of people in the lurch. It’s no way to govern.”
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he will not accept a paycheck if the government shuts down tonight at midnight. Last night, the House of Representatives passed its fourth short-term funding bill since late September, but if the Senate fails to pass the bill today, the government will run out of funding. In a letter to House Chief Administrative Officer Philip Kiko, Rep. Maloney asked that his paycheck be withheld if the government is shut down. “I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again – do your job or don’t get paid – that’s a rule everyone outside of Washington lives by, and it should apply to me and my colleagues as well,” said Rep. Maloney. “If Congress doesn’t pass a budget, they shouldn’t be paid. Simple as that.” Rep. Maloney is a co-sponsor of the No Budget, No Pay Act, which would ensure our country avoids defaulting on our debt and would withhold congressional pay until a comprehensive budget is passed by Congress. Rep. Maloney is also a co-sponsor of the No Government No Pay Act, which mandates that, in the event of a Federal government shut down, Members of Congress would not be compensated until a budget has been passed and all government employees are back to work. The full text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Mr. Kiko, Although I remain hopeful that Congress will come to an agreement and pass a Continuing Resolution before tonight at midnight, a shutdown of the government remains possible. As a cosponsor of the No Budget, No Pay Act, I believe that members of Congress should be held to the same standards as the people I have the honor of representing in the Hudson Valley. I write today to request that, in the event of a shutdown, my pay be withheld.
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Republican-led House of Representatives passed a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) last night to keep the government open. If no funding bill is passed in the Senate by tonight at midnight, the government will shut down. This is the fourth short-term funding bill brought to the floor by GOP leadership since the end of September. “Congress has to stop playing games with government funding and with the lives of hundreds of thousands of Dreamers. This is the fourth short-term funding bill Republican leadership has brought to the floor since September, and it’s a shortsighted, lazy way to govern. We have a responsibility to fix the mess the President made when he ended reasonable protections for Dreamers. “Many of us on both sides of the aisle have worked together on legislation that would permanently fix this problem, and if these bills were brought to the floor today, they would pass with overwhelming bipartisan support. Republican leadership needs to get their act together and work with us.”
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today led a letter from 34 Members of Congress to Secretary Tillerson asking the State Department and the Trump Administration take a stronger role in condemning the Turkish government for its recent crackdown against LGBTQ events. These actions are part of a worrisome trend by the Turkish government of using physical force and the adoption of discriminatory laws against the LGBTQ community since at least June 2015. The suppression of the freedom of assembly signals an endorsement of anti-LGBTQ sentiments held by some, including President Tayyip Erdogan and many in his Justice and Development Party (AK). “The United States must not stand by while President Erdogan – and other regimes committing human rights abuses around the world – seeks to implement discriminatory policies with impunity,” said Pallone. “It’s time President Trump and Secretary Tillerson restore America’s commitment to standing up for LGBT rights abroad.” “LGBTQ people in Turkey have been living in fear for years. And as a result, they’ve been denied the opportunity to participate and make their voices heard in public. That’s a basic violation of human rights that we cannot tolerate from nations who are supposed to be our international partners,” said Rep. Maloney, a Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “It’s time for this Administration – especially Secretary Tillerson – to get in the game here and promote democratic principles in Turkey. January 17, 2018 The Honorable Rex W. Tillerson Secretary of State US Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson: We write to draw your attention to troubling reports that the Republic of Turkey, once among the most open and LGBTQ-friendly countries in the Muslim world, has taken increasingly hostile steps to crack down on public and the Trump Administration take a stronger role in condemning. We request that the State Department and the Trump Administration take a stronger role in condemning these actions and take every necessary step in protecting and promoting LGBTQ civil rights on the world stage. Recently, the Governor of Ankara indefinitely banned any films and exhibitions related to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues in Turkey’s capital city. The ban was implemented after the governor halted an LGBTQ Film Festival a day before it was scheduled to begin on November 16, 2017. The following week, a district governor in Istanbul banned another LGBTQ film screening, “in order to secure public order and safety.” Actions taken by these officials are part of a worrisome trend towards restricting peaceful assembly and freedom of speech in Turkey. The Turkish government has used physical force and the adoption of discriminatory laws since at least June 2015 to prevent LGBTQ persons from publicly gathering, citing “social values” and “public morality” as the reason for these actions. In June, 2015, Turkish police used water cannons to disperse the LGBTI+ pride march in Istanbul, injuring peaceful participants. The following year, Istanbul riot police dispersed a Trans Pride resulting in the unlawful detainment of 11 people and violence at the hands of local police. And this June, Istanbul’s governor banned the city’s Trans and LGBTI+ pride march, citing security concerns. This trend of suppression of the freedom of assembly for LGBTQ people and their allies signals an acceptance of anti-LGBTQ sentiments held by some Turkish people, including President Tayyip Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party (AK). President Erdogan refuses to expand, or even protect, the most basic rights for minorities, LGBTQ people and women. This regime’s flouting of international norms and its intolerance of dissent has clearly been on display in Turkey and in its interactions with the rest of the world. The United States must not stand by as the Erdogan regime threatens human rights. We therefore urge you to publicly speak out against the ongoing abuses in Turkey and to call on the Turkish authorities to immediately revoke this ban. We must ensure that the U.S. remains committed to working with countries to protect all of their citizens, no matter whom they are or whom they love. We look forward to hearing from you regarding the Administration’s plan to address this growing concern in Turkey.
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON – After last month’s train derailment in Washington State killed three people and injured dozens more, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined other transportation leaders to introduce legislation that would speed up the implementation of life-saving positive train control (PTC) technology that could prevent deadly crashes and derailments. The Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act would prevent further delays of the 2018 deadline for implementing PTC and provide over $2.5 billion in funding to assist passenger railroads to implement the technology by the end of the year. “Time’s up - no more excuses. Every day we wait, we put lives in jeopardy – that’s not an exaggeration – last month’s crash is proof of that fact,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “We’ve allowed the rail lines to drag their feet on this for too long – 2018 should be a hard deadline for getting PTC up and running.” The bill would mandate that December 31, 2018, is the final deadline for implementing PTC and prohibit the U.S. Department of Transportation from granting railroads further extensions of the PTC deadline. To help passenger railroads meet the deadline, the bill includes just over $2.5 billion in grants for intercity and commuter passenger railroads to implement PTC. In response to the recent Amtrak crash in Washington, the legislation would prohibit commuter and intercity passenger railroads from beginning new service on a route unless PTC is fully implemented and operational. It also requires Amtrak to report its progress toward installing PTC on routes that are not owned by Amtrak, but are operated by the railroad, such as the Amtrak Cascades line.
01.16.2018	Newburgh, NY – Mere months before hundreds of thousands of “Dreamers” are at risk for deportation, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined three Hudson Valley residents who live in America legally but are undocumented to call for a permanent legislative solution that will allow them to continue to stay in America without the fear of deportation. Approximately 15,000 Dreamers have already lost protections under the Obama-era program, and hundreds of thousands more will be at risk after the program officially ends on March 5th. “Dreamers are our neighbors, our friends, and our family members – they work hard, pay a fee, and stay out of trouble – America shouldn’t be kicking out talented young people who did nothing wrong,” said Rep. Maloney. “We need to recognize that these young people have done everything we’ve asked of them and are themselves innocent – they shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip. It’s time to pass a clean Dream Act.” “Right now, I’m lucky to have DACA, but if I’m unable to apply again or have something to fall back on, I wouldn’t be able to work or drive,” said Aura Lopez Zarate, a 2015 graduate of Newburgh Free Academy, who currently studies at Borough of Manhattan Community College. “I don’t think it’s very fair, I don’t think Its humane that my peers and people like me have to live like this every day. I just hope we get support and a resolution from Congress.” “I don’t want to feel afraid. I’m an honest person, I’m a hard-working person, and I want to stay here because I have a family and I don’t want my family to suffer,” said Miriam Sanchez, a teaching assistant with Agri-Business Child Development (ABCD). “DACA has always been a band aid to a big wound – I would like a pathway to citizenship, I would like to know that I can continue to live and contribute to this country,” said Diana Cruz, a first-year graduate student of International Affairs at SUNY Albany. “I’ll continue to work and pay my taxes, and continue to share my story so people realize that undocumented youth have been organizing and fighting for a Dream Act.” The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, created under President Obama, allows qualified immigrants who were brought to America as children to earn work authorization and remain in the country temporarily without fear of deportation. To earn these protections, DACA recipients must register for the program, undergo a thorough criminal background check, pay a fee, stay out of legal trouble, and meet certain military or educational requirements. On September 5, 2017, the Trump Administration eliminated the DACA program, creating a dire emergency for Dreamers across the country and their families. It’s estimated that more than 15,000 Dreamers have already lost their work authorization and deportation protections, roughly 122 per day since September 5th. That number is expected to jump to more than 1,200 per day starting after March 5th, when hundreds of thousands of other Dreamers will begin losing their DACA status. Over the next two years, roughly 800,000 DACA recipients will lose their protections unless Congress takes action to permanently protect them. Amid the tension surrounding Dreamers, Congress must also pass legislation to fund the government by January 19th or risk a shut down. Many Democrats, including Rep. Maloney have withheld their support for recent spending bills, which would require them to vote to fund the detention and deportation of these Dreamers who will lose their DACA protections this year unless Congress acts. Rep. Maloney is a cosponsor of the Dream Act of 2017, which would grant conditional permanent resident status (CPR) for up to eight years to all current DACA recipients who have not voided the terms of their permit. To qualify, eligible DACA recipients must have lived in the U.S. for four years prior to the bill passage and be brought here before the age of 18 and have graduated high school or be enrolled in secondary school. Those who’ve received CPR can obtain lawful permanent residence (LPR) by completing at least two years of higher education, completing two years of military service or if they've worked for three years. In Rep. Maloney’s district, approximately 1,900 young people are enrolled in the DACA program and it’s expected the country would lose over $124,00,000 in annual GDP if they were deported, according to data from the University of Southern California’s Dornsrife Institute.”
01.12.2018	Poughkeepsie, NY – After Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison were notified of a new round of heating issues at the Rip Van Winkle affordable housing complex in Poughkeepsie, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Lynne Patton, the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD’s) Regional Administrator for New York asking the agency to conduct a formal inspection of the property. “This has really gone on long enough. People shouldn’t have to endure the winter without heat – it’s really that simple,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s time for HUD to get in the game and get on the ground to figure out our next steps.” “I am greatly appreciative of the assistance that we have received from Congressman Maloney’s office, both here in the district and in Washington since the fire at the Rip Van Winkle Apartments,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “They have been extremely helpful in our discussions with HUD officials as it relates to the ongoing issue of providing adequate heat and hot water to the residents.” Rep. Maloney’s office has worked with the Mayor and other officials since a fire at Rip Van Winkle displaced more than 300 residents of the affordable housing complex. His office also facilitated multiple calls with representatives from HUD to discuss next steps regarding these persistent heating issues. Rip Van Winkle housing receives federal funding through HUD to assist low-income families afford housing in the facility. The full text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Ms. Patton, I write you regarding an urgent issue facing many of my constituents in Poughkeepsie. Specifically, I am requesting that HUD complete an immediate inspection of the Rip Van Winkle House in Poughkeepsie, New York and ensures that issues identified in the inspection be mitigated in a timely fashion to protect the safety of the occupants. On October 30, 2017 a boiler in the basement of the Rip Van Winkle House caused a fire that displaced more than 300 residents. While all residents were able to return to their units within thirty days, there have been persistent heating issues in the building, with some units heated below 68 degrees Fahrenheit. Upon further discussion with the Mayor of Poughkeepsie, the Honorable Robert Rolison, there are indications that this heating issue may have been ongoing prior to the boiler fire. We have a responsibility to ensure that the residents of the Rip Van Winkle House are living in safe conditions and that they are able to heat their homes during this harsh New York winter. I request that you conduct an immediate inspection and full audit of the Rip Van Winkle House to ensure that it is in compliance with its housing assistance program (HAP) contract and HUD-adopted Housing Quality Standards (HQS). I am further requesting that you ensure all residents, Mayor Robert Rolison, and Poughkeepsie city officials be made aware of the results of this audit immediately following its completion. Further, if there are any renovations that need to be made to ensure the safety of the Rip Van Winkle House, I ask you to ensure that they are completed in a timely fashion that provides the least amount of hardship for residents. Thank you for your attention to this issue. Please let me know if there is any additional information I can provide.
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON – In response to December’s tragic and deadly train derailment in Washington State, Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Denny Heck (WA-10) led the Washington state delegation in demanding answers from Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao regarding the Department’s adherence to train safety legislation passed in 2015. A provision of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act authored by Rep. Maloney requires passenger railroads to identify high-hazard curves on their tracks and submit an action plan to the Department of Transportation (DOT) to enhance safety at those locations. “We don’t have all the facts yet, but we do know that the train was going almost three times faster than it should have been around that curve – my bill was intended to prevent these kinds of accidents, but it only works if it’s being enforced,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the Transportation Committee. “We need to get to the bottom of this – the only thing that’s certain right now is that we have to stop these crashes. People’s lives are on the line.” “The circumstances surrounding the Amtrak accident in Washington are eerily similar to the tragic and deadly 2015 derailment of an Amtrak Northeast Regional train in Pennsylvania, and dozens of accidents before it,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio. “Congress passed legislation to force intercity and commuter railroads to identify dangerous curves and enhance safety at these curves in order to prevent these types of accidents and save lives. I look forward to a response from the Department of Transportation on whether this legislation is being enforced and will continue to work together with my colleagues to enact any changes necessary to prevent this type of accident in the future.” “The December derailment of an Amtrak passenger train in Washington State underscores the urgent need to ensure that railroad carriers are identifying locations requiring speed reductions and developing safety plans for those sections, as mandated by the FAST Act,” stated Rep. Mike Capuano, Ranking Member of the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee. “While the investigation into that derailment is ongoing, it is clear that speed played a role. We are urging Secretary Chao to review railroad compliance with federal transportation law.” “I spoke with Secretary Chao immediately following the train derailment in DuPont, and I intend to keep the conversation going with federal, state, and local authorities on what we can do to improve rail safety,” said Rep. Heck, who represents the district in which the crash occured. “Implementing this provision of existing law is one way we can reduce the likelihood and severity of train accidents. Jim Hamre and Zach Willhoite were tireless advocates for passenger rail, and on their behalf we will continue to search for ways to make train travel safe and reliable.” Investigators have found that the Amtrak train that crashed in Washington on December 18th was traveling 78 miles per hour in a 30 mile per hour zone near a curve in the tracks. Investigators are in the process of determining the proximate cause of this derailment, but the high rate of speed coupled with a high-hazard curve are likely major factors. Investigators also believe that positive train control would likely have prevented this accident had it been in operation on the track. Section 11406 of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, passed in 2015, requires each passenger railroad carrier to survey each of its systems in order to identify high-hazard curves (curves requiring a reduction of more than 20 miles per hour from the approach speed) and submit an action plan detailing steps the railroad will take to enhance safety at those locations. It is unclear whether or not DOT has enforced this portion of the law. In March 2015, the House also passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. Rep. Maloney is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Representatives Maloney and Heck were joined on the letter by House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (OR-4), Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee Ranking Member Michael Capuano (MA-7), and members of the Washington delegation including. The full text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Secretary Chao: In the wake of the tragic Amtrak derailment in Washington, we write to you regarding the Department of Transportation’s legal responsibility to ensure steps are taken to prevent these types of tragedies in the future. Specifically, we seek answers from the Department of Transportation as to the status of passenger railroad speed limit action plans required by the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act of 2015. As you know, the Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 was included as Section 11406 of the FAST Act. This important provision required each railroad carrier providing intercity rail passenger transportation or commuter rail passenger transportation to survey its entire system and identify each curve, bridge, or tunnel requiring a reduction of more than 20 miles per hour from the approach speed and submit an action plan detailing steps the railroad will take to enhance safety at those locations. Those steps could include modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increases in crew size, installation of signage at those locations, installation of alerters in cabs, and increases in crew communication. The plan must contain milestones and target dates for implementing those steps. While the root causes of this most recent derailment are still being investigated, it is clear that this accident involved a train travelling at high speed entering into a high-hazard curve. Compliance with Section 11406 was intended to reduce the likelihood of these tragic events and, as such, we seek answers from the Department of Transportation as to the status of these action plans. Specifically, we would like to know if Amtrak has submitted any speed limit action plans to the DOT for review and approval, as required by law, and whether DOT reviewed and approved such plans. We also request copies of the plans. Thank you for your attention to this letter, and we look forward to your prompt response.
01.10.2018	Newburgh, NY – To honor our veterans’ service and sacrifice, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his fourth annual “Valentines for Veterans” initiative, encouraging his neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to join him in making Valentine’s Day cards to send to our veterans. Rep. Maloney’s Valentines for Veterans program provides schools, families, individuals, and businesses in the Hudson Valley with the opportunity to send Valentine’s Day greetings to our veterans. The cards will be hand-delivered to veterans at the VA Hudson Valley Health Care Facility at Castle Point. “We owe our veterans everything for their commitment to our country, and this is a nice way for us to show our thanks for their service,” said Rep. Maloney. “Last year we were able to bring a lot of joy to folks at Castle Point, and this year we’re hoping to be able to do the same – but we need help – I encourage everyone in the Hudson Valley to pitch in for our vets.” Interested participants should contact Rep. Maloney’s office at (845) 561-1259. Valentines may be mailed to or dropped off at his Newburgh District Office by 5:00 PM on Wednesday, February 7th. Click here for the invitation.
01.05.2018	Washington – After returning from a seven-day Congressional Delegation Trip to Iraq, Afghanistan, and the United Arab Emirates, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will provide a briefing to the Orange County Chamber of Commerce and other interested parties on his trip and the state of affairs in the Middle East after a decade and a half of American military intervention in the region. The meeting will be held on Friday, January 12th at 11:30 AM in the Larkin room at the Orange County Chamber of Commerce at 30 Scott’s Corners Drive, Montgomery, NY 12549. The event will be open to the press and the public. Maloney Pictured at Q-West Forward Operating Base in Northern Iraq “Speaking directly with our military leaders, our troops on the ground, our intelligence officers, and our diplomatic corps is the best way for me to get a sense of where things stand in the region,” said Rep. Maloney. “Monitoring our national strategy, tracking our progress, and making sure that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to continue their outstanding work in the Middle East is tough to do from the other side of the world. This trip is an important part of that work and I look forward to reporting the details of the trip to the people I represent.” The Congressional Delegation Trip (CoDel Gallagher) occurred from December 23-30, 2017 and took members of Congress to Iraq, Afghanistan, and the United Arab Emirates. The purpose of the trip was to conduct oversight on U.S. force posture, regional dynamics, and counter-terrorism efforts associated with Operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq and Syria, Operation Resolute Support in Afghanistan, and U.S. strategic security efforts with coalition partners United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Rep. Maloney was joined on the bipartisan trip by: Congressman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) Congressman Don Bacon (R-NE) Congressman Salud Carbajal (D-CA) Congressman Scott Taylor (R-VA) The first leg of the trip took the delegation to Iraq, where they visited the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad and forward operating base Q-West in Northern Iraq. During his time in the country, Rep. Maloney met with Lieutenant General Paul Funk II, Commanding General, Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve, members of the diplomatic corps, and intelligence officers including the CIA Station Chief. In Baghdad, Rep. Maloney enjoyed sharing a Christmas dinner with servicemembers from New York state. In the United Arab Emirates, Rep. Maloney and the delegation visited Dubai and the port of Jebel Ali, the home of Carrier Strike Group Nine, stationed in the Persian Gulf. The delegation also met with Rear Admiral Steve Koehler, the Commander of the Strike Group, and Captain Carlos Sardiello, the Captain of the USS Roosevelt, an aircraft carrier. The final portion of the trip was to Afghanistan. Members of the delegation visited troops at Bagram Air Force Base, the largest U.S. base in Afghanistan and Camp Shorab (formerly Camp Leatherneck), a forward operating base in Helmand Province. Rep. Maloney received briefings from U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan John R. Bass, as well as several top generals in the region. In addition to the diplomatic and military briefings, the delegation received updates on the fight against heroin and opium production in the country. During his time at Bagram Air Force Base, Rep. Maloney met with even more servicemembers from New York.
01.03.2018	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) has requested that the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), allow Mount Sinai Health System to establish a clinical care center in the Hudson Valley to treat 9/11 first responders nearer to their homes. Many of these heroes live in the region, but have to travel up to two hours to the closest health care facility in Manhattan. “The heroes of 9/11 who live in the Hudson Valley didn’t think twice about answering the call to help their fellow Americans and neither should we,” said Rep. Maloney. “These guys literally risked everything to save lives on America’s darkest day and now that many of them have gotten sick, we have a shared responsibility to make sure they can get the high-quality care they deserve without having to spend an entire day traveling across the state.” “How many more 9/11 first responders will we have to lose before action is taken? We must give our first responders more choices to ensure they have access to the care they have earned,” said State Senator Bill Larkin. “Working with Congressman Maloney and in collaboration with Mount Sinai’s clinical care center, we must establish a clinical care location in the Hudson Valley to better serve our first responders.” Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan currently provides health care to 9/11 first responders who have health problems as the result of their service on that fateful day. Recent studies, including those authored by Mount Sinai researchers, have documented ongoing health problems experienced by 9/11 responders and volunteers, including: upper and lower respiratory and gastrointestinal problems, musculoskeletal disorders, mental health conditions, as well as various types of cancer. It’s estimated that as many as 1,700 first responders have developed cancer as the result of exposure to contamination at the World Trade Center site. 9/11 first responders who live in the Hudson Valley have to travel to Manhattan to receive necessary ongoing care through the program. The first line of duty death for a law enforcement officer in 2018 was Michael Anson, who died of cancer he developed after 9/11. Trooper Anson lived in Albany, and died on January 2, 2018, after serving 31 years in the New York State Police. The World Trade Center Health Program, authorized by the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010, is administered by the NIOSH. Rep. Maloney cosponsored a bill to reauthorize the program, which passed in 2015. Rep. Maloney and Senator Larkin have collaborated on this project for years in an attempt to bring care closer to 9/11 heroes who live in the Hudson Valley. The full text of the letter is below and an original copy is available here. Dear Dr. Howard, I write today to express my support for the establishment of the World Trade Center Clinical Center in the Hudson Valley. As you know, the tragedies of September 11th devastated millions of Americans and their families. Among those victims are the first responders who so selflessly risked their lives to save others. Their bravery resulted in the ultimate sacrifice and left too many of our heroes physically and psychologically wounded without access to the treatment and services necessary for holistic rehabilitation. With the closest clinical center located in New York City, first responders seeking treatment must travel two hours or more in order to access the professional expertise and resources found in clinical care centers. With the partnership of Senator Larkin, and the collaboration of Mount Sinai’s clinical care center, I respectfully request consideration be given to providing Mount Sinai with the necessary approval to establish a similar center here in the Hudson Valley. With your support, I am hopeful that the Mount Sinai model can be brought to our communities in an effort to streamline both the accessibility and quality of service available to the first responders. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this matter as both are greatly appreciated.
12.31.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that Stewart International Airport will receive $34 million in investments and be renamed "New York International at Stewart Field." Investments will establish a permanent federal inspection station for international travel and provide funding for additional enhancements. "We’ve been working on renaming Stewart and making these other improvements for some time and I'm thrilled that the Governor is taking charge and making things happen. Renaming the airport will make it more attractive to travelers, and making key investments in New York International will meet the increasing demand for travel options and help grow our regional economy.”
12.22.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released his fifth annual report, which highlights his legislative work, constituent services, and town hall events. Despite Washington gridlock, Rep. Maloney worked across the aisle to get things done and deliver results for his Hudson Valley neighbors in 2017. This year, Rep. Maloney has maintained his focus on veterans, protecting the Hudson River, cleaning up water contamination in Newburgh, and fighting the heroin and opioid epidemic. Just this month, two of Rep. Maloney’s bills were passed into law as part of the defense bill. The Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act, attached as an amendment to both versions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), will prevent predatory debt collectors from contacting servicemembers’ superior officers in attempt to collect payment. The legislation requires the Department of Defense to update their regulations and bring them into parity with relevant protections for civilians. The Investing in Testing Act requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a five-year, $7 million federal study into the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA exposure. Some of Rep. Maloney’s other top accomplishments include: Returned $7.7 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed payments for veterans benefits, Social Security, and Medicare, and the IRS. Served over 1,200 constituents, including 265 veterans Hosted 15 in-person town halls, and 7 telephone or online town halls Secured 52 medals and awards for veterans and servicemembers Introduced 24 pieces of legislation Passed 4 pieces of legislation through the House Passed 2 pieces of legislation into law Cosponsored 277 bills Cast 674 votes with a 98.5% attendance record You can view a full copy of Rep. Maloney’s report by clicking here.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after he voted against the year-end spending bill. This “Continuing Resolution,” the third short-term extension of this fiscal year, funds the government through January 19th. “This short-term funding bill is just another example of Congress failing to do its job. We have a lot of work left to do this year – not least of which is working out a long-term solution for 800,000 Dreamers who may be celebrating their last Christmas in the only country they’ve ever known. Republican leaders in Congress should push back the holiday recess and hammer this stuff out now. “People in the Hudson Valley know that sometimes you have to work long hours to meet deadlines around the holidays. Congress shouldn’t be any different.”
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Three years after he stood at Maple Avenue Park to announce that $11.5 million worth of unused Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant Disaster Relief (CDBG-DR) funding would remain available to Orange County for flood mitigation in the wake of Hurricane Irene, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced two flood mitigation projects totaling $2.8 million. The first project will focus on a retention pond near Maple Avenue Park, and the other will repair and stabilize a portion of the Monhagen Drainageway between West Main Street and California Avenue, both in the City of Middletown. “Families and businesses in Middletown have lost their land and have had to worry about the effects of flash flooding and storms for years, but that’s about to change,” said Rep. Maloney. “These projects will shore up some of the eroding land and protect our people from mother nature while creating good-paying jobs and spurring the local economy.” “I am proud of the work conducted by the County’s Community Development Office with the support of Congressman Maloney and State Senator John Bonacic,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “Their support was critical in obtaining these funds, which will allow the City of Middletown to rebuild important infrastructure components that were devastated by the impacts of Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee more than six years ago.” “We’re going to get these high-risk flood areas fixed up so people don’t have to worry about damage to their property or their ability to get around during a serious storm or a hurricane,” said Middletown Mayor Joe DeStefano. “This was a team effort and it’s going to benefit a lot of people in the City of Middletown. I want to thank Congressman Maloney for working with us on this for so many years.” The Maple Avenue Drainage Improvements project will focus on minimizing the potential flash flooding along Maple Avenue. It will include the creation of a storm water detention area upstream of the pond at Maple Avenue Park. The project will also include the construction of over 850 feet of storm sewer. Many Middletown residents lost portions of their backyards as the result of erosion and flooding, but this project will restore some of this land. This project is estimated to cost $1.6 million. The West Main Street Drainage Improvements project aims to restore more property lost to erosion and minimize potential future erosion during moderate intensity storms. Much of the existing drainageway will be rebuilt, and the remaining portion will be stabilized. Finally, chain link fencing will be installed around the channel for safety purposes. This project is estimated to cost $1.2 million. In 2014, as the City was still rebuilding after Hurricane Irene, Rep. Maloney announced that he had secured $11.5 Million in unused CDBG-DR funding that would have otherwise been returned to the federal government. Rep. Maloney worked with Orange County to align the projects with the requirements of HUD. In doing so, Rep. Maloney and Rich Mayfield, Orange County’s Director of Community Development, collaborated for several years to ensure that these funds remain available for folks in the Hudson Valley. As a result of these efforts, the funding originally allocated to Orange County is now being tapped to complete important safety projects, which will also restore land to families and small businesses. These projects are the culmination of years of cooperation between Rep. Maloney, Orange County, and the City of Middletown. Overall, Orange County has secured nearly $140 million in disaster assistance funding related to this and other natural disasters. Orange County was severely impacted by Hurricane Irene, Tropical Storm Lee and Super Storm Sandy. Days after he was first elected in 2013, Rep. Maloney took to the House Floor to fight to secure critical disaster related funding for folks across the Hudson Valley. Since then, he has worked to ensure that HUD sticks to its promise to award these funds across the region.
12.20.2017	Washington – After reports surfaced that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) were banned from using seven terms including “transgender” and “evidence-based” by the Trump Administration, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) sent a letter to the agency asking for clarification on the facts of these reports. The CDC’s director, Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald, has suggested that the stories “mischaracterize” the state of affairs at the agency, but has not offered her own version of events. “The idea that the CDC would ban words like science-based is so crazy I had a hard time taking it seriously” said Rep. Maloney. “But now that they’re refusing to deny or clarify their policies, I’m starting to get concerned that the Trump Administration sees 1984 more as a how-to guide than a cautionary tale.” Rep. Maloney is leading the letter with Representatives Jim Langevin (D-RI) Diana DeGette (D-CO), Judy Chu (D-CA), and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR). As first reported by The Washington Post, CDC guidance directs employees to refrain from using the words “vulnerable,” “entitlement,” “diversity,” “transgender,” “fetus,” “evidence-based” and “science-based” in documents related to the CDC’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposal. The letter, which was signed by 88 Members of Congress, requests information regarding the origin, purpose, and scope of the word ban. A copy of the letter can be found here.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “This tax bill, which was written in secret by corporate lobbyists and rammed through the House, is bad for New York and bad for our country. Don’t take my word for it, most of the Republicans from New York broke with their own party and voted no, so I couldn’t possibly support it. I mean, it raises property taxes for us and 83% of the benefits go to the richest 1%, so it obviously won’t help the Hudson Valley families who need relief. But it will explode our deficit, weaken Medicare, and undermine our efforts to build infrastructure and invest in education. “I would have supported responsible tax reform, but sadly the Republicans in Congress have chosen to help out corporations and wealthy elites instead of focusing tax relief on your average American.”
12.14.2017	Newburgh, NY — After years of working to secure a visa for the Iraqi interpreter who aided his unit while he served in Iraq, former Army Sergeant Vincent Lang worked alongside Representative Sean Patrick Maloney to finally guarantee his interpreter’s safe immigration to the United States. Many interpreters who assisted American servicemembers during the Iraq War are in danger of retribution from extremists, leading many of them to flee the war-torn country. “Sergeant Lang’s interpreter did everything he could to help our guys in Iraq, and we need to turn around and make sure we do the same for him,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m glad we could work with Vinny to get the red tape out of the way and help Dodex get to the U.S.” “After hearing what happened to some of our translators, we knew we owed it to them to keep their families safe,” said former Sergeant Vincent Lang, who now serves as an officer with the New York Police Department. “His family became my family over there – we celebrated holidays and shared meals – and I’m just glad they’re finally all out of harm’s way.” Sergeant Vincent Lang served in Iraq from 2003-2004. Sergeant Lang was stationed in a town called Hilla, outside of Babylon, and tasked with retraining guards at a prison. His interpreter, nicknamed “Dodex,” was hired by a now-defunct private company to serve as an interpreter for American forces in the region. Since the company no longer exists, securing proof of his assistance to American servicemembers has been difficult for Dodex and the handful of veterans who are committed to providing him help getting into the country. Since 2004, Lang has kept in touch with Dodex via email and social media and has reached out to a number of officials for help cutting through red tape at the State Department. Sergeant Lang reached out to Rep. Maloney’s office after progress on obtaining the visa had stopped. Rep. Maloney’s office pressed the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad and the State Department in Washington to work with Lang to assemble the relevant paperwork. Dodex has since obtained a visa and immigrated safely to the United States. Since 2007, the State Department has issued over 1,700 Special Immigrant Visas to Iraqi interpreters who aided American troops during the Iraq War. Many of the interpreters still in Iraq fear for their lives because of the help they provided to American servicemembers. Rep. Maloney was critical of President Trump’s “Muslim Ban” in January because it would have barred people from Iraq from coming to the United States – including Iraqi interpreters. The ban was eventually thrown out by the courts.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON — A day before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is expected to vote to rollback Net Neutrality rules, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney led a final effort to force a vote on his legislation to block the FCC’s rulemaking. The procedural motion to force a vote on Rep. Maloney’s Save Net Neutrality Act failed on a party-line vote of 229-189. Click here to watch Rep. Maloney’s remarks “We may have lost this battle, but the war isn’t over,” said Rep. Maloney. “Millions of people care about Net Neutrality and our coalition of everyday Americans, committed groups, and lawmakers will work to make this right no matter how long it takes.” Democrats attempted to force a vote on the bill using a procedural motion called “ordering the previous question,” but ultimately failed. The motion allows the House to bring a bill to the floor for a vote even if it was not scheduled to be voted upon. The FCC’s rollback of Net Neutrality relies on a formal rulemaking process. The Administrative Procedure Act (APA) requires federal agencies to consider relevant comments as part of this process, known as Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM). The APA requires agencies to undergo a formal comment period and process for considering the opinions of people who would be affected by a new proposed rule. The FCC has come under intense scrutiny for its bungling of the comment process on this proposed rule. The Save Net Neutrality Act would simply prevent the FCC from relying on the NPRM process that will conclude with a final vote tomorrow. The bill refrains from making policy prescriptions, but instead invalidates the process that culminates in the creation of an enforceable rule authorized by the APA. Without the ability to rely on the rule, the FCC would have to start the NPRM process over from scratch. The bill was endorsed by the Free Press Action Fund and the Open Technology Institute.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that two pieces of his legislation passed into law as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which was signed yesterday by the President. The Investing in Testing Act will require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to study the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA contamination, and The Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act would stop debt collectors from contacting servicemembers’ commanding officers in an attempt to collect payment. The Investing in Testing Act requires the CDC to conduct a five-year, $7 million federal study into the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA exposure. “We know folks in Newburgh have higher levels of PFOS than the national average, but we don’t really know what that means their health,” said Rep. Maloney. “My bill will get the CDC moving so we can get better science in this area and give residents some idea of what to be looking out for.” The study will focus on contamination of drinking water, ground water, and other relevant exposure pathways. The study will be overseen by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and be conducted in concert with the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, National Institute of Environmental Health and the Department of Defense. Rep. Maloney originally introduced the legislation in October of 2016, and reintroduced the bill in February in response to water contamination concerns in Newburgh. Although the provision was not initially included in the NDAA, Rep. Maloney and his colleagues wrote a letter to the committee responsible for determining what would be in the final bill and requested that the legislation include a provision to require CDC testing. The Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to provide clear protections for servicemembers from predatory debt collection practices. “Americans who sign up to put on the uniform should have the same protections from predatory debt collectors as civilians – and frankly it’s ridiculous that they don’t already,” said Rep. Maloney. “My bill will fix that problem and make sure protections for our servicemembers are in-line with what exists in the civilian sector.” The bill requires the DoD to update their regulations to bring them into parity with civilian regulations within 180 days. A 2016 report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) pointed to the fact that 46 percent of all complaints from servicemembers in the previous year were regarding debt collection practices. The bill requires the Secretary of Defense to review and update their regulations to ensure they comply with federal consumer protection laws regarding the collection of debt for servicemembers. The bill passed in the House of Representatives in July and through the Senate in September. Last year, this legislation was included in the FY 2017 NDAA and passed the House but was not passed by the Senate.
12.08.2017	WASHINGTON — Days before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will vote on its proposed rollback of Net Neutrality rules that protect the open internet, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced the Save Net Neutrality Act (H.R. 4585) to stop the FCC’s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) that would result in a final rule eliminating the existing Net Neutrality policy. “The FCC’s proposal to screw up your internet is just about the worst plan I’ve seen – the comment period was a mess and the rest of the proposal is full of holes,” said Rep. Maloney. “My bill would stop this rule from going into effect and keep the internet the way it is – affordable, open, and full of innovation.” “People are lifting up their voices for Net Neutrality, and the message is loud and clear,” said Matt Wood, Policy Director, Free Press Action Fund. “The rules and the legal framework we have today at the FCC are working. We have called on Congress to stop Chairman Pai from taking those successful rules away. We don’t need legislators to fix Net Neutrality, we need them to fix the current rules in place. We thank Rep. Maloney for working to do that.” The FCC offered an NPRM on May 18, 2017 which would rollback Net Neutrality rules established by the Commission in 2015. These rules classified Internet Service Providers (ISPs) as “common carriers” under Title II of the Federal Communications Act of 1934 and Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which subjected them to regulation as utilities. Net Neutrality protects the free and open internet by preventing these ISPs from blocking, speeding up or slowing down the transmission of content, or increasing costs to consumers by changing the pricing model that exists today. The Administrative Procedure Act (APA) requires federal agencies to consider relevant comments as part of the NPRM by establishing a formal comment period and process for considering the opinions of people who would be affected by a new proposed rule. The FCC has come under intense scrutiny for its bungling of the comment process on this proposed rule. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has uncovered evidence that tens of thousands of New Yorkers may have had their identities used to file fake comments. Additionally, analysis by the Pew Research Center has found that only 3% of the comments received by the FCC definitively went through a verification process to ensure emailed comments came from legitimate accounts. This allowed many comments to be submitted using fake accounts. The analysis provides the example that over 7,500 comments came from the email address example@example.com. The Save Net Neutrality Act would simply prevent the FCC from relying on the NPRM process that will conclude with a final vote on December 14th. The bill refrains from making policy prescriptions, but instead invalidates the process that culminates in the creation of an enforceable rule authorized by the APA. Without the ability to rely on the rule, the FCC would have to start the NPRM process over from scratch. The bill has been endorsed by the Free Press Action Fund.
12.08.2017	Poughkeepsie, NY — After the City of Poughkeepsie Common Council voted to lease its bus assets to Dutchess County in accordance with the terms of a consolidation agreement overseen by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) sent a letter to the FTA requesting that they immediately unfreeze $595,000 in funds owed to the city by the FTA for its operation of bus service in 2015-2016. The FTA had previously frozen these funds because the City missed a deadline to transfer the buses to Dutchess County. “The Common Council has voted to resolve this issue, and now the FTA needs to free up the money they owe the city,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “We obviously appreciate the fact that FTA has worked with the City on this, and now we just want to make sure everything ends up the right way and that the City gets the money its owed.” “We’re not out of the woods yet, but we’re all working together to make sure we get this taken care of to protect Poughkeepsie taxpayers from a massive fine,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “We appreciate the fact that Rep. Maloney is nudging the FTA in the right direction and we’re confident this solution makes sense for everyone.” The full text of the letter is below and a copy of the original is available here. I’m writing today to inform you that the City of Poughkeepsie Common Council voted on Monday, December 5th to lease its bus assets to Dutchess County as required by the conditions of consolidation set by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). I appreciate your willingness to postpone the initial deadline, and your cooperation to ensure this issue is resolved swiftly without saddling the taxpayers of the City with a $1.6 million penalty. In light of Monday’s Common Council vote on this issue, I request that you release the nearly $600,000 in frozen reimbursement funds owed to the city for its operation of the bus system in 2015-2016. I also believe this should protect the city from incurring the $1.6 million penalty. I appreciate your immediate attention to this issue, and offer my services if you require additional clarification or assistance.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON — After Congressional Republicans renewed their support for Senate candidate and accused pedophile Roy Moore and passed a tax bill which will raise the deficit by at least $1.5 trillion, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) gave a fiery speech on the House floor in which he lambasted the party for its hypocrisy. Click the link above to watch Rep. Maloney’s remarks A full transcript of Rep. Maloney’s remarks is below. Mr. Speaker: Today I rise to suggest a new rule. All my life, I’ve heard the Republican Party preach family values and fiscal discipline. But in the course of a single week, Mr. Speaker, we’ve seen the Republican Party in this House vote to add more than a trillion dollars of new debt because tax cuts for rich people matter more. And we’ve seen the Republican President and the Republican Party in the Senate choose to support a credibly accused pedophile because power matters more. So, I’ll tell you what, Mr. Speaker. New rule: after today, the Republican Party can choose to support massive new debts and it can choose to support politicians who abuse kids, but it cannot lecture the rest of us about it. The rest of us have listened to our last lecture from Republicans about family values or fiscal discipline. From now on, that party has no credibility on either issue. So, from now on, when it comes to family values or fiscal responsibility, please, keep it to yourself. We’ve heard enough of it.
12.01.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) sent a letter to Metro-North’s Acting President Catherine Rinaldi asking for her help to resolve access issues for people with disabilities at Metro-North’s Port Jervis Station. Currently, people in wheelchairs or with other mobility issues have to call the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) for bus service to Middletown if they want to access Metro-North trains. “Metro-North is technically complying with the law, but I believe there are simple ways to fix this so our veterans, older Americans, and people with disabilities don’t have to jump through extra hoops just to get on a train,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Transportation Committee and Bipartisan Disability Caucus. “Everyone should have equal access to basic transportation services like Metro-North, and I think if we all work together on this, we can make life a lot easier for folks in western Orange County.” The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) required all train stations built after 1990 to be accessible to people with disabilities. Not all older stations were required to be accessible, but transit authorities were instructed to identify “key stations” that would be. Middletown’s station was designated as a key station, but Port Jervis station was not. As a result, people who wish to board a Metro-North train in western Orange County have to contact the MTA to arrange bus service to the Middletown station. The full text of the letter is below and a copy of the original letter is available here. I’m writing today about an issue of great local concern – access to trains for people with disabilities at your Port Jervis Station. I recognize that under the Americans with Disabilities Act, Metro-North is not required to make this particular station accessible for individuals with disabilities because of alternative accommodations. However, I believe that it is necessary to work together to ensure that veterans, the elderly, and people with disabilities who live in the area are not negatively impacted by the current level of access. I have heard from dozens of individuals in and around Port Jervis who are dissatisfied with the status quo, and could benefit from improved accessibility accommodations at the station. I am confident that there are simple steps that can be taken to lessen the burden on these individuals and ensure they have the same ease of access to basic transportation services as everyone else. At minimum, temporary accommodations should be made while a more permanent solution is identified. This would have great impact in the lives of many of my constituents in western Orange County. It’s a common-sense move that would be greatly appreciated. I know that we share a commitment to ensuring that all Americans, regardless of age or disability status, can access basic transportation services. I respectfully ask that Metro-North works alongside the city of Port Jervis and the rest of the local communities to find a solution amenable to all parties involved. I would also like to offer my services if I can assist in any way to ensure a successful resolution of this issue. Thank you for your attention to this letter, and please do not hesitate to contact me if I can assist you with this matter in any way.
11.30.2017	Aid Supplies for Tens of Thousands of Puerto Ricans Delayed By Nearly Two Months WASHINGTON — After news reports revealed that Florida-based contractor Bronze Star was mysteriously awarded, then failed to deliver on, a $30 million contract to supply half a million tarps and additional plastic sheeting to Puerto Ricans in need after Hurricane Maria, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) successfully passed an amendment to the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2017 through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which will require a formal audit of the contract by the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “Tens of thousands of Americans still have holes in their roofs – or no roof at all – because this contractor couldn’t get the job done and FEMA was asleep at the switch,” said Rep. Maloney (NY-18). “People are suffering because of the slow response and we need an investigation into this failure by the Agency and we need to get to the bottom of how this ridiculous contract went out.” Bronze Star, a Florida-based contractor that was founded in August, received a contract in October through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to supply 500,000 plastic tarps and 60,000 rolls of plastic sheeting to people in Puerto Rico reeling from Hurricane Maria. The tarps and sheeting are used to cover holes in roofs to keep homes dry. The company was only two months old at the time, had no history of fulfilling government contracts, and was headquartered at a single-family private residence in Florida. Rep. Maloney’s amendment to the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2017 was passed unanimously through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee during mark-up. The amendment would require the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security to begin an audit of the Bronze Star contract within 30 days and issue a report to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs within 180 days. The audit must consider the contracting and evaluation process, accountability requirements, and how the contract cancellation affected the provision of supplies to people in need in Puerto Rico. After Hurricane Maria made landfall, Rep. Maloney called for immediate disaster assistance, and has voted for several aid packages to fund rescue efforts. Approximately 6% of Rep. Maloney’s Hudson Valley district is of Puerto Rican ancestry. On October 7th, Rep. Maloney visited the island on a bipartisan Congressional Delegation Trip. In response to local concern, he convened a Puerto Rico Task Force to consolidate Hudson Valley relief efforts and provide policy recommendations. Rep. Maloney personally spoke to Governor Rosselló in the Capitol earlier this month about the status of relief efforts. On November 2, he grilled federal officials over the slow response to the disaster. You can watch Rep. Maloney's remarks in commitee by clicking here.
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON — After former Congressman Maurice Hinchey passed away, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), who represents a portion of Hinchey’s old district, gave a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor his legacy. Click the Link Above to Watch Rep. Maloney’s Remarks A transcript of Rep. Maloney’s remarks is available below. “Thank you Mister Speaker. I rise to honor a giant of the Hudson Valley – Former Congressman Maurice Hinchey. Mr. Hinchey passed away last week, but 21 years ago, I had the opportunity to be a young volunteer on his campaign for Congress. A few days ago I attended his wake with hundreds of my neighbors in the Hudson Valley. When you met Maurice Hinchey, you met first and foremost, a real life, flesh and blood human being who was strong and principled and passionate. And that person became a real hero to many of us in the Hudson Valley. We celebrate his life of service in the Navy, in the New York Assembly, and of course here in the Congress. I’m blessed to represent a district that includes many of the same communities that Maurice Hinchey represented. And when I took office, I heard the same thing again and again: “If you want to succeed, just do what Maurice Hinchey did.” Well, that advice is easier said than done – but I’ve tried. He was one of a kind: a leader, a fighter, a gentleman, a statesman. He was a tireless advocate for the Hudson River and for the larger environment. We are all blessed to have been served by him, and he will be sorely missed.”
11.30.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $404,650 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) to support the next generation of farmers and ranchers through the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program (BFRDP). Rep. Maloney has also introduced legislation to reauthorize the BFRDP program. “Our farmers aren’t getting any younger and not enough people are stepping into the field to take their place,” said Rep. Maloney (NY-18). “We need to start the next generation of farming right now. This investment will help new Hudson Valley farmers step into the profession and get a successful start.” "We are thrilled to have this support," said Kathleen Finlay, President of Glynwood. "By providing new farm based businesses with the skills and tools they need to be successful, we are creating a healthy food system here in the Hudson Valley. We are fortunate to have such strong political leadership in this region who recognize the importance of helping new entry farmers prosper - to the benefit of all of our residents." Funding from the investment will enable the BFRDP to start training new and beginning farmers in the skills they need to cultivate successful agricultural businesses in the Hudson Valley. A key part of the program allows the Hudson Valley Farm Business Incubator (HVFBI) to provide new entry farmers who have been farming for between 2 and 5 years with access to shared land, housing, equipment; training in comprehensive business planning, financial training and market development; guidance in resilient and regenerative land stewardship practices; and assistance fledging to long term farmland in the region. This is, essentially, everything a new entry farmer needs to be successful. The HVFBI hopes to have 15 new long-term farm businesses up and running by the third year of the program. This is a multi-stakeholder initiative whose objective is to encourage new farmers to enter the industry at a time when the average age of farmers is nearly sixty. The BFRDP program, authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill, aims to help address issues associated with the rising age and decrease in the number of U.S. farmers and ranchers. They support projects that deliver education, mentoring, and technical assistance programs to help beginning farmers and ranchers in the U.S. and its territories with entering, establishing, building and managing successful farm and ranch enterprises. Awardees provide the knowledge, skills, and tools needed to help farmers and ranchers make informed decisions for their operations, and enhance their sustainability. Last month, Rep. Maloney introduced legislation called the Young and Beginning Farmers Act that had three main objectives for young farmers: access to land, USDA programs for young and beginning farmers, and investments in local and regional food systems. The legislation would also reauthorize the BFRDP. Rep. Maloney also introduced the Local FARMS Act to help farmers deliver produce directly to their customers, and secured $130,000 in investments to combat the Allium Leafminer, an invasive species of pest that threatens Orange County’s multi-million dollar onion industry. Glynwood Center is a non-profit organization serving food and farming professionals across New York’s Hudson Valley. The organization advances regenerative agriculture in service of our natural environment, local economies, and human health. The center also serves as a teaching venue for aspiring farmers and a testbed for regenerative farming practices.
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON — After several victims, including current and former staffers and sitting members of Congress came forward with stories of sexual harassment perpetrated by senior Congressional staffers and members of Congress, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) voted in favor of a resolution to formally require all members of the House of Representatives and their staff to undergo sexual harassment prevention training. Rep. Maloney also cosponsored the resolution. “This is all pretty simple really – act like a human being and don’t touch people who don’t want to be touched,” said Rep. Maloney. “That’s the rule for the people we represent and it should obviously be the rule for members of Congress too. People all across the country deal with harassment on a regular basis and Congress should be trying to fix the problem instead of making it worse.” Two sitting members of Congress recently testified before the Committee on House Administration that they had been sexually harassed by other members of Congress. Additionally, a number of current and former staffers have recently come forward regarding allegations of sexual misconduct by senior staff or sitting members of Congress. The resolution would simply require all members of Congress, staff, interns, and fellows to undergo a sexual assault prevention training program within 90 days of the start of each session of Congress. New employees who start after that period would have 90 days from their start date to complete the training. The Committee on House Administration is required to enforce the measure and devise formal regulations within 30 days.
11.27.2017	Yonkers, NY — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Representative Eliot Engel (NY-16) and local stakeholders reaffirmed their commitment to stopping any Coast Guard proposals that include long-term anchorage sites for the Hudson River. This followed a series of comprehensive workshops hosted by the Coast Guard that assessed safety on the Hudson River, including the potential need for new anchorage proposals. The group of officials also lauded the Coast Guard’s Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) for its inclusion of local concerns. “I’m happy to talk about improving safety measures for barge operators on the river – if a barge is caught in a serious storm, it should absolutely be able to pull over to protect the crew and the river,” said Rep. Maloney. “But there is no way I’ll entertain the possibility of any long-term anchorage sites. They’re not necessary for anyone’s safety and they’re a huge risk to the river and our local communities.” “From day one my colleagues and I have said this anchorage proposal was a bad idea,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “The impact it could have, not just on the river but on the communities that line the river like Yonkers and Hastings, might be severe. As such, we have opposed the Coast Guard’s plan every step of the way and will continue to do so as the PAWSA process moves forward. So far we have been successful in delaying this bad idea, but we can’t let up. Congressman Maloney and I will continue to look for ways to help preserve and protect our shoreline communities at the federal level, and I am proud to have partners at the local level like Mayor Spano who are also fighting vigorously against this plan.” “The Hudson River is a national treasure, and I share the concerns of many of my constituents that new anchorage sites along the river would threaten the local environment and the survival of wildlife,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester). “Hudson Valley communities stand to be most at risk of safety hazards from expanded anchorage sites. I am glad that the Coast Guard has accepted local input and urge that these serious concerns be addressed before any decision is reached.” “Through the support received from Congressmen Maloney and Engel, the Hudson River Waterfront Alliance has made great strides in preserving our Hudson River,” said Yonkers Mayor Mike Spano. “Now with convening of the recent PAWSA Workshops, it is clear that there’s little justification for the designation of additional anchorages on our Hudson River. We continue to advocate together so that shores of the Hudson remain a place where our residents and visitors can gather to live, work and play.” “Scenic Hudson commends the Coast Guard for hosting the Hudson River PAWSA earlier this month,” said Hayley Carlock, Scenic Hudson Director of Environmental Advocacy. “As a participant in both PAWSA workshops, we demonstrated that establishing new anchorages is not necessary for navigational safety, and proposed alternative strategies that could make the Hudson River safer for navigation and environmental protection without requiring additional anchorages. We are pleased that among the PAWSA participants, no one advocated for long-term anchorages that could be used to store oil and other hazardous materials, though some parties continue to press for shorter-term anchorages. Scenic Hudson will continue to watchdog this process and advocate on behalf of the thousands of citizens who have opposed new anchorages because of the threat they pose to river safety, waterfront communities and economic revitalization.” “Riverkeeper appreciates the extraordinary effort made by the Coast Guard. The PAWSA workshops were historic, because they brought together such a diverse range of interests – recreational boaters, biologists, community representatives, state and federal agencies, environmentalists and marine businesses of all kinds,” said John Lipscomb, Riverkeeper’s Patrol Boat Captain and Vice President for Advocacy. “I am confident that these discussions have fostered new understanding between stakeholders who have at times been at odds. We all want safety on the river. “The PAWSA process was never specifically intended to address the debate over additional federally designated ‘long term’ anchorages requested by the tug and barge industry – but this was a useful and necessary step toward resolving the issue. I am confident that the safety concerns of the maritime industry can be fully addressed without an increase in anchored commercial traffic on the Hudson. We look forward to the Coast Guard’s PAWSA report and further constructive dialog among all parties.” In 2016, the Coast Guard issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which would have allowed the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. The sites would hold a total of 43 berths, including 42 long-term berths, for barges travelling downriver to the Port of New York. Rep. Maloney expressed strong opposition to this proposal in Congressional hearings and demanded local stakeholders have a greater say in the process. The Coast Guard agreed to the request and extended the public comment period for the proposal. After receiving approximately 10,000 negative comments and overwhelming bipartisan opposition, the Coast Guard relented, and Rep. Maloney announced in June that the Coast Guard had suspended its proposal and instead opted to hold a series of PAWSA workshops. The aim of these workshops is to get a comprehensive look at the need for such a proposal as the result of safety concerns and seek out local input before proceeding with any possible future proposals. The PAWSA workshops for the Hudson River were held on November 7-8 in Poughkeepsie and November 15-16 in Albany. In 1996, Congress directed the U.S. Coast Guard “to identify minimum user requirements for new Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) systems in consultation with local officials, waterways users and port authorities.” As a result, the Coast Guard created the PAWSA process, which was established to open a dialogue with waterway users and stakeholders. In July, Maloney announced his “Maloney Principles” for evaluating the PAWSA process for the Hudson River, which included a focus on facts, the inclusion of local perspectives and environmental concerns, and a commitment to transparency. Two pieces of Rep. Maloney’s legislation to stop future anchorage proposals passed the House of Representatives earlier this year, but are waiting to be passed by the Senate and signed into law. The Anchorages Away Act would require the Coast Guard, within 180 days of passage, to submit a report to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the impacts of proposed anchorages on existing superfund sites and habitats of endangered species, as well as the Coast Guard’s response to these concerns. The legislation would also bar the Coast Guard from establishing any new anchorages between Yonkers and Kingston until 180 days after the report is submitted. The bill passed the House as part of the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act in July. Rep. Maloney also successfully passed an amendment through the House of Representatives in September, which would defund any attempts to fund potential future anchorage sites between Yonkers and Kingston. The amendment passed as part of the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2018.
11.22.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the death of former Congressman Maurice Hinchey. "It is hard to spend time in the Hudson Valley and Catskill region without encountering the legacy of Maurice Hinchey. His lifetime of service in the U.S. Navy, the Assembly, and in the Congress set the standard for leadership in our region, our state, and our country. “After I was elected to Congress, I often heard the same advice: if you want to be successful, just do exactly what Maurice Hinchey would do. Easier said than done. Maurice was a living legend — principled, tough, passionate, and effective. I have modeled my own service on his, and I am proud to have called him a mentor and a friend. Now more than ever, our nation misses and longs for leaders like Maurice. Randy and I join the countless people whose lives he improved in sending our condolences to his family and in praying for his eternal rest.”
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he will not support any year-end spending bills that do not permanently protect Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) recipients. These DACA recipients, also known as Dreamers, were brought to America as young children, but are not lawful residents. “If we sit back and do nothing, these kids will get kicked out of the only country they’ve ever known for no damn good reason,” said Rep. Maloney, a cosponsor of the Dream Act. “The Dreamers didn’t do anything wrong but Paul Ryan and the Republicans in Congress are playing political games with their lives. I will do everything I can to force Congress to do right by these kids.” The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program created under President Obama, allows individuals who came to the U.S. as children and have not gotten into legal trouble to obtain permanent resident status. In September, President Trump announced that the program would be eliminated by March 5, 2018 if no action was taken by Congress. Congress must also pass a spending bill by December 8th to avoid a government shutdown. Rep. Maloney is also a cosponsor of the Dream Act, bipartisan legislation which would give qualified candidates lawful permanent residence status if they meet certain criteria.
11.17.2017	New Windsor, NY —Today, after working alongside Stephanie Keegan of Somers, NY who lost her son Daniel shortly after his transition out of the military and Nelson Rivera, the Dutchess County Veterans Agency Director, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the introduction of the Know Your Vets Act, which will help veterans safely transition out of military service. The bill would give veterans the option of having their final certificate of discharge paperwork, also known as a DD-214 form, sent to a county Veterans Service Officer (VSO) based on wherever they’re moving. This notification will allow VSOs to proactively reach out to offer assistance and ensure the new veteran has a smooth transition back to civilian life. “When Nelson told me that county veterans organizations aren’t notified when a new vet moves here, I just couldn't believe it,” said Rep. Maloney. “Some folks who serve have a hard time transitioning back to the civilian world, and this bill will help them bridge that gap by getting our veterans services officers the info they need to lend a hand.” "Today I was proud to join Congressman Maloney as he announced legislation that will help give our county veterans agencies the resources they need to directly help our service men and women as they return home,” said New York State Senator William Larkin. “Through cooperation and team work and by reaching across party lines we will deliver positive results for our veterans." “We have to do everything we can to help out our veterans successfully transition back to civilian life and connecting them with our county veterans organizations is a common sense way to achieve that,” said New York State Assemblyman James Skoufis. “I want to thank Rep. Maloney and all the veterans in Orange County on his advisory board for working together to get this bill written – I’m proud to support it.” “I am so proud of Congressman Maloney and the work he has done to create the Know Your Vets Act. I have no doubt that this legislation will save lives,” said Stephanie Keegan of Somers, the mother of veteran Daniel Keegan. “This is a long time issue we have had to reach out to our veterans, if the “Know Your Vets Act” had been in place we would have never seen on average 22 veterans a day committing suicide,” said Nelson Rivera, Director of the Dutchess County Veterans Service Agency. “I THANK Congressman Maloney for listening and taking the appropriate action to best serve our servicemembers and families transiting back into civilian life.” "This proposed legislation will make a huge difference to those of us in the positions to help veterans,” said Christian Farrell, Director of the Orange County Veterans Service Agency. “One of the biggest challenges we face is knowing where our veterans live - in Orange County that's daunting task with 22,000 vets.” The transition from the military can be a difficult time for veterans. Some veterans struggle with finding a good job, adjusting to family life, or just feeling at home in the civilian world. Some even battle mental health issues or substance abuse. VSOs are available to assist these new veterans, but the VSOs have no way of knowing that a recently discharged veteran has returned home or moved to their community. Instead, those VSOs must wait for a veteran to contact them, which can be a serious barrier to recently discharged veterans getting the help they need. The Know Your Vets Act would resolve this issue by giving veterans the option of having the Department of Defense send their Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty Form, also known as a DD-214 form, to the county VSO in the county to which they’re moving. This will allow VSOs to proactively reach out and offer their assistance with the transition including accessing services and connecting with the veterans community in the county. The opt-in approach would protect the privacy of veterans who do not wish to have their information forwarded on to the relevant VSO. Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board was instrumental in the creation of this legislation. Nelson Rivera, the Director of the Dutchess County Veterans Service Agency and a member of the Board raised his concerns about the lack of notification when veterans moved into the county. Rep. Maloney worked alongside Rivera and Stephanie Keegan, the mother of Daniel Keegan who died shortly after he transitioned out of the military. Daniel’s mother, Stephanie, believes that the tragedy could have been avoided if Daniel had help navigating the process and connecting with the local community from a local official, like a VSO.
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his legislation to require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a comprehensive study into the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA exposure will be signed into law as part of the defense bill. The Investing in Testing Act, originally introduced in 2016, was included in the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed both the House and Senate, and will head to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “We know folks in Newburgh have a higher PFOS level in their blood than the national average – we just don’t know what that means in terms of long-term health effects,” said Rep. Maloney. “But that’s going to change soon – my bill will get the CDC in the game to drill down on the science of this and figure out what to do next to help the people in Newburgh.” In October of 2016, Rep. Maloney introduced the Investing in Testing Act to require the CDC to conduct a federal study into the long-term health effects of PFOS/PFOA exposure in response to water contamination concerns in Newburgh. He reintroduced the bill in the 115th Congress in February. Although the provision was not initially included in the NDAA, Rep. Maloney and his colleagues wrote a letter to the committee responsible for determining what would be in the final bill and requested that the legislation included a provision to require CDC testing. The NDAA passed the House of Representatives on November 14th and the Senate on November 16th. The legislation is expected to be signed into law by President Trump as early as next week. Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water supply, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source without placing the financial burden on the City, and work to determine the level of health risk for people with high PFOS content in their blood. After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’s request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” In September 2016, Maloney and state officials announced the launch of the New York State Department of Health’s biomonitoring program for Newburgh. In addition to hundreds of Newburgh residents, Maloney received his results as part of the round of blood test results released last week. In May of 2016, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. Rep. Maloney also called on the DoD to conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the EPA calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after he voted against the Republican tax plan. The bill passed on a vote of 227-205. “Any tax plan is about choices. In this case, these guys have chosen a tax cut for very very rich people and huge corporations but a tax hike for middle class families and small businesses. They've chosen to punish New Yorkers by whacking your state and local tax deduction. They’ve chosen to hurt seniors by cutting Medicare. And they’ve chosen to be wildly irresponsible by blowing a $1.7 trillion hole in the deficit for no good reason. I'm all for cutting taxes, but the choices Paul Ryan and Republicans in Congress made when writing this dumpster fire show you that this plan has nothing to do with helping regular working people." The tax bill will curtail or eliminate nearly all existing deductions and double the standard deduction. One of the most serious concerns for New Yorkers is the partial elimination of state and local income and sales tax deductions and a cap on state and local property tax deductions. The bill was written in secret by lobbyists and a small handful of Republicans. It’s unusual for such sweeping legislation to be rushed through Congress in a three week window. The Senate is crafting its own tax plan which calls for the complete elimination of the state and local tax deduction.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – After the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) announced the establishment of six new enforcement teams to stop the flow of heroin and fentanyl, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) asked the Administration to focus its efforts on the Hudson Valley in addition to Long Island. It is expected that the teams will track leads throughout the region, but Rep. Maloney specifically called upon the DEA to provide assistance to folks in the Hudson Valley. “We have to crack down on heroin and fentanyl traffickers with every weapon in our arsenal – and that should include a top-notch enforcement team,” said Rep. Maloney. “These guys are the real deal and communities across the Hudson Valley could use all the help we can get from the DEA.” According to the New York State Office on Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS), Orange and Dutchess Counties both have proportionally higher rates of opioid-related deaths per capita than Long Island. The Hudson Valley is also situated at a geographic crossroads that make it an ideal location for trafficking narcotics. Maloney has asked that the DEA analyze efforts to combat the opioid epidemic and its wide-spread distribution in the Hudson Valley. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there were more than 64,000 overdose deaths nationwide in 2016, or approximately 175 per day, half of which were caused by opioids. A full copy of the letter is below. You can also find a scanned version of the letter by clicking here. Dear Administrator Patterson, I write to thank you for your efforts to combat the flow of heroin and illicit fentanyl across the country. The opioid epidemic has destroyed far too many lives and infiltrated countless neighborhoods from California to New York. It is my belief that our continued collaboration will strengthen efforts to dismantle this deadly epidemic and supply local law enforcement with the resources it needs to put an end to this rampant tragedy once and for all. As you may know, I was able to work with the Office of National Drug Control Policy to expand the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) designation here in the Hudson Valley. Our efforts resulted in classifying the entire region as a contiguous HIDTA zone, which supplied our partners in local law enforcement with critical resources needed to address the distribution and sale of narcotics. I was pleased to learn of your efforts to establish six new enforcement teams across the country that will undoubtedly help put an end to this deadly epidemic. While I fully understand all of the factors that went into determining where your enforcement teams are stationed, I respectfully ask that your Long Island task force extend its jurisdiction to include the Hudson Valley. According to NYS Office on Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS), the Long Island Region reported 1,067 opioid related deaths from 2013-2015. Comparatively, my Congressional District has lower reported deaths but at notably higher rates per capita. Since January of this year alone, St. Luke’s Hospital in Orange County has reported over 120 overdoses, with nearly 13 of those resulting in fatalities. These rates are alarming and your assistance is needed to help mitigate this devastating issue here in the Hudson Valley. As you can imagine, the HIDTA designation has brought significant attention to the trafficking and distribution hubs across the Hudson Valley. Your assistance is needed to ensure that this designation receives the back-up it needs to continue the great work we have started. Please know, I stand ready to be your partner and help to facilitate to critical collaboration among my colleagues in the law enforcement community. Again, thank you for your consideration in this matter. I look forward to working with the DEA to continue to combat the opioid epidemic here in the Hudson Valley.
11.15.2017	Poughkeepsie, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), New York State Senator Sue Serino, and Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison announced that through their collaborative efforts, all residents of the Rip Van Winkle affordable housing complex have been able to return to their homes. Some issues with heating remain, but Rep. Maloney has facilitated a call with the Mayor’s office and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to determine next steps. “Getting folks back in their homes was a real team effort and it’s a big win for all the residents there at Rip Van Winkle because Thanksgiving is just next week,” said Rep. Maloney. “We have more work to do to fix the problems with the heating – especially with winter around the corner – but I’m confident that together we can get that done.” "When tragedy strikes, our community has a long tradition of coming together to help our neighbors get back on their feet, and this situation was no exception,” said New York State Senator Sue Serino. “I cannot thank everyone enough who pulled together to get critical resources to these residents and help get them back to their homes." “This was a difficult and frustrating situation for the residents of the Rip Van Winkle complex,” said Dutchess County Commissioner of Emergency Response Dana Smith. “Dutchess County Emergency Response filled a support and coordination role to all involved to ensure residents were safe and secure. We were pleased to have assisted the effort to temporarily house and then return residents to their homes with the support of several county agencies including the Departments of Community & Family Services, Behavioral & Community Health, Public Transit and the Medical Reserve Corps. There is a great deal to be learned from this situation and we look forward to working with all involved to assess what occurred and improve for the future.” “This situation has been very difficult for the residents – many with young children. As with any emergency, a lot of people and organizations came to help,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “I’d particularly like to thank all the City and County personnel involved and Rep. Maloney and Senator Serino at the State and Federal level for their support and assistance. We also thank the Red Cross, our Civic Center, and all the local businesses and others that helped.” Rep. Maloney’s office has worked with the Mayor’s office and other officials since the fire at Rip Van Winkle displaced more than 300 residents of the affordable housing complex. His office also facilitated a call with representatives from HUD to discuss next steps regarding heating issues. Rip Van Winkle housing receives federal funding through HUD to assist low-income families afford housing in the facility.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON – After working alongside Ros Thackurdeen, a resident of Newburgh whose son died while studying abroad, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney introduced two bills to help students make safer choices about studying in a foreign country. The American Students Abroad Act and Ravi Thackurdeen Safe Students Study Abroad Act would update reporting requirements on universities and the State Department to help families make better decisions about where their students study abroad. “What happened to Ravi and countless other students is terrible – as a parent, I can’t imagine how helpless you’d feel if something happened to your child while they were on the other side of the world,” said Rep. Maloney. “These situations are preventable – we just have to get important safety information into the hands of students and families before they decide where to study abroad.” “Our children, as students abroad, were not traveling ambassadors, soldiers, business people, or employees. Our children were simply young learners, relying on educational institutions, in order that they might explore their personal potential and future possibilities,” said Ros Thackurdeen and Elizabeth Brenner, mothers of students lost while studying abroad and co-founders of Protect Students Abroad. “We wish our children had known what we know now. Instead, they placed their faith—as did we—in a multi-billion dollar global education industry, which markets well, but remains non-transparent and willfully ignorant. For their genuine, hopeful, and ultimately misplaced trust, our children paid with their lives.” Ravi Thackurdeen traveled to Costa Rica in 2012 for a study abroad trip. While swimming as part of the program, Ravi was placed at a beach, known by locals to be dangerous, pulled into the current and drowned. Since then Ravi’s mother Ros, a resident of Newburgh, has worked alongside Elizabeth Brenner, the mother of Thomas Plotkin, another student who died in India, to form the nonprofit organization Protect Students Abroad. Thackurdeen and Brenner have worked with Rep. Maloney for years on crafting a legislative strategy to prevent study abroad deaths. Rep. Maloney introduced a similar version of the Ravi Thackurdeen Safe Students Study Abroad Act in the 114th Congress. The bill would require institutes of higher education to issue biennial reports on their efforts to protect students studying abroad and provide crime statistics on those students as part of their annual campus security report. After working alongside Ros, Elizabeth, and other experts, Rep. Maloney concluded that another bill was necessary to account for high school and post-graduate students studying abroad. The American Students Abroad Act would require the State Department to generate quarterly reports from U.S. Embassies and Consulates on the death of any U.S. citizens in a foreign country. These reports would be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), who would analyze trends in violence and issue reports. According to NAFSA: Association of International Educators, over 325,000 American students studied abroad in the 2015-2016 school year, a 4% increase from the previous year. With more and more students choosing to study abroad, it’s becoming more important to provide this safety information to students before they make a decision on where to study.
11.10.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day, which is observed on November 11th. “We should appreciate our veterans every day, but especially today, I’m thinking about all those who have served and sacrificed to keep our country safe. My dad served and he taught me that we respect the patriotic Americans who put their lives on the line to protect us. I will never forget his commitment – or the commitment of the millions of other Americans who served honorably in our armed services. Thank you for your patriotism and your dedication to our country.”
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Less than a week after the GOP released their tax bill, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will hold a telephone town hall to allow constituents to ask questions about the proposal and provide their opinions. The call will take place from approximately 7:00 PM – 8:00 PM on Wednesday, November 8th. Constituents can join the call toll-free at 855-312-2107 and many constituents will receive a call from Rep. Maloney’s office. “Tax issues are complicated, and I don’t want this bill to get jammed through before I have a chance to talk to people back home about it,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m looking forward to fielding questions and hearing from taxpayers about their concerns.” The tax bill would curtail or eliminate nearly all existing deductions and double the standard deduction. One of the most serious concerns for New Yorkers is the partial elimination of state and local income and sales tax deductions and a cap on state and local property tax deductions. Nearly 200,000 taxpayers in Rep. Maloney’s district claim state and local tax (SALT) deductions, and for many of them, doubling the standard deduction would still mean an increase in tax liability. The bill was written in secret by lobbyists and a small handful of Republicans, is being marked up this week, and will be voted on next week. It’s unusual for such sweeping legislation to be rushed through Congress in a three week window.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – A day after receiving a personal update on Hurricane relief efforts from Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) grilled Major General Donald E. Jackson of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers about the slow response to the disaster. Governor Rosselló noted that six weeks after Hurricane Maria made landfall, the island only has approximately 400 crews working to reestablish the power grid, when 2,000 are needed. Video of Maloney Grills Federal Officials Over Slow Puerto Rico Response Click the image above to view Rep. Maloney’s Questions “Someone needs to give me some answers here, because the Governor of Puerto Rico is telling me they don’t have the tools and personnel they need to get back on their feet and it’s been six weeks,” said Rep. Maloney. “This wouldn’t fly in New York or South Carolina or Iowa – and it’s absolutely wrong that it’s still happening in Puerto Rico.” After Hurricane Maria made landfall, Rep. Maloney called for immediate disaster assistance, and has voted for several aid packages to fund rescue efforts. Approximately 6% of Rep. Maloney’s Hudson Valley district is of Puerto Rican ancestry. On October 7th, Rep. Maloney visited the island on a bipartisan Congressional Delegation Trip. In response to local concern, he convened a Puerto Rico Task Force to consolidate Hudson Valley relief efforts and provide policy recommendations. Rep. Maloney personally spoke to Governor Rosselló yesterday in the Capitol about the status of relief efforts.
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) announced the filing of an Amicus Brief in support of equal rights for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) community and other marginalized groups in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. A ruling for Masterpiece Cakeshop could create a “license to discriminate” allowing businesses to deny service to Americans, including LGBTQ people. Senator Baldwin and Representative Maloney were joined on the brief by 35 Senators and 174 House members. “I support religious freedom and the freedom of full equality for every American. Our religious beliefs don’t entitle any of us to discriminate against others and I don’t believe that any American should face discrimination based on race, gender, or sexual orientation - whether it’s at a bakery, a hotel, or a doctor’s office,” said Senator Baldwin. “It is simply wrong to discriminate against any American based on who they are or who they love. If an individual has the ability to pay for a service and is not in violation of the law, they should not be turned away.” “We wouldn’t let a hotel owner refuse a room to a person because of their race or allow a restaurant to deny service to a couple based on their religion – and we can’t let that same kind of discrimination apply to Americans based on their sexual orientation or gender identity,” said Rep. Maloney, a Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “This is about fairness and the civil rights of all Americans – religion should not be used as a sword to inflict harm on minority groups.” “If a business is open on Main Street, it must be open to everyone, regardless of who they are or whom they love,” said Sarah Warbelow, Legal Director, Human Rights Campaign. “It is important for the nation and the Supreme Court to affirm the equal dignity of every single American. Thank you to Senator Baldwin, Congressman Maloney and all of the members of Congress who have spoken up against the type of discrimination at issue in the Masterpiece Cakeshop v the Colorado Civil Rights Commission case.” “As this friend-of-the-court brief makes clear, a ruling for Masterpiece Cakeshop would be ruling for discrimination, a violation of the Constitutional right to equal treatment under the law,” said Ian Thompson, legislative representative at the ACLU. “It would set a dangerous precedent with implications that go far beyond this case and this couple, jeopardizing long-standing anti-discrimination protections. The ACLU applauds the leadership of Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney, Senator Tammy Baldwin, and the 205 other Members of Congress who joined them to make their commitment to equality clear. No one should ever be refused service by a business that is open to the public simply for who they are or whom they love.” "In this country we believe in freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom from discrimination,” said Harper Jean Tobin, Esq., Director of Policy for the National Center for Transgender Equality. “If civil rights laws could be ignored in the name of religion, businesses across the country from hotels to hospitals could put up a 'transgender not welcome' sign. On behalf of the nearly two million Americans who are transgender we thank the Members of Congress who are standing up against a license to discriminate." In 2012, same-sex couple Charlie Craig and David Mullins were denied a wedding cake by Masterpiece Cakeshop because of their sexual orientation. The shop’s owner, Jack Phillips, cited religious objections to same-sex marriage as a justification for his refusal. The Colorado Civil Rights Commission ruled that the shop could not lawfully deny services to individuals based on their sexual orientation under the Colorado anti-Discrimination Act and required the shop to provide staff training and issue reports on steps taken to come into compliance with the ruling. Masterpiece Cakeshop appealed the ruling, which was eventually upheld by the Colorado Supreme Court. The shop appealed the decision, and the United States Supreme Court granted certiorari. The U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments on December 5th. If the court finds that a business owner’s religious conviction or expressive intent trumps civil rights laws, it could undermine local, state, and federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination an accessing public accommodations. In the friend-of-the-court brief, signers urge the Supreme Court to affirm the Colorado Civil Rights Commission’s initial decision to require Masterpiece Cakeshop to comply with the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act. The brief considers the history of federal nondiscrimination laws, such as Title II of the Civil Rights Act, and Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and how rulings regarding those statutes apply to the pending case. Signers warn that the outcome of the case could have broad implications for the civil rights of groups that already face discrimination and that creating exemptions to public accommodations laws – in this case based on a business’s arguably expressive conduct or religious belief – would undermine the government’s interest in prohibiting discrimination against minority groups. The brief is supported by the Human Rights Campaign, the American Civil Liberties Union, Bend the Arc Jewish Action, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), Lambda Legal, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Center for Transgender Equality, National Employment Law Project, National LGBTQ Task Force, National Women’s Law Center, People for the American Way Foundation, SAGE, Transgender Law Center, Equality California, Equality Delaware, Equality Florida, Equality New Mexico, Equality North Carolina, Garden State Equality, and One Colorado. A full version of the brief is available here.
10.31.2017	Middletown, NY – In response to the increasing number of heroin and opioid overdoses in libraries here in the Hudson Valley and across the country, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced the Life-saving Librarians Act to empower unlikely heroes in the fight against overdose deaths. Unfortunately, libraries have become a common site for opioid and heroin overdoses. Library staff have responded by educating themselves on the use of Narcan, an antidote which immediately reverses the effects of overdoses. “Library staff across the country are ready to save lives when people overdose – now it’s up to us to make sure they have the training and tools they need to provide immediate assistance to people who are struggling with addiction,” said Rep. Maloney. “New York State’s programs that provide this training are proven lifesavers – and it’s time we build on that success and take these programs nationwide.” “The opioid crisis is having a detrimental effect on our communities,” said Assemblywoman Aileen Gunther. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for leading the way to ensure our librarians have the training they need to help fight this epidemic.” “The problem of people overdosing at libraries in Orange County has become too common, and we need to make sure our library staff are trained to save lives,” said Orange County Legislator Jeff Berkman. “I want to thank Rep. Maloney for taking this seriously and introducing legislation to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic in our area.” “I fully support the Congressman’s efforts in fighting the opioid epidemic,” said Orange County Legislator Michael Paduch. “Educating and training as many people as possible will reduce the overwhelming tragedies that are affecting families throughout this country.” “The opioid epidemic is at a level I have not seen in my forty years in law enforcement,” said Orange County Sheriff Carl E. DuBois. “We must cooperate as partners on all levels and agencies in government to deal with this issue that affects us all.” “I would like to thank Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for his continued efforts and support he has given the City of Middletown over his tenure in Office,” said Middletown Mayor Joe DeStefano. “This new legislation to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic will now help librarians across his district that are saving lives threatened by opioid overdoses every day. Thanks to this legislation, Representative Maloney’s new bill will create Federal grant programs to allow public libraries to train staff and purchase Narcan without draining their budgets and it will be a win/win for libraries, cities, towns and municipalities across Congressman Maloney’s District. We are fortunate to have Congressman Maloney fighting for all of us and our Children and families on this issue, I commend and applaud him.” “Public libraries provide essential services to our communities,” said Thrall Library Executive Director Matt Pfisterer. “Fulfilling this mission often requires us to face challenges and adapt to changing environments. Librarians, library workers and library boards have a long history of overcoming obstacles so that we can continue to provide these essential services which our communities need now more than ever.“ Libraries in Middletown and Newburgh have been the site of several overdoses in recent years. Luckily in those cases, law enforcement officers responded quickly enough to administer Narcan before it was too late. Thrall Library staff have since taken training courses in partnership with a local drug treatment facility and received state investments through the Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services to procure Narcan kits. The Life-saving Librarians Act directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a grant program to allow public libraries in High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs) to purchase naloxone rescue kits and/or provide training to enable employees to use naloxone rescue kits. Each of the counties in Rep. Maloney’s district is designated as part of the New York/New Jersey HIDTA, meaning public libraries throughout the lower Hudson Valley qualify for the federal investments established by the Life-saving Librarians Act. Combating the heroin and opioid epidemic is one of Rep. Maloney’s top priorities. Last year, Rep. Maloney’s legislation to combat opioid abuse by improving education for prescribing physicians and incentivizing the pharmaceutical industry to include anti-abuse properties in new medications was signed into law as part of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). In March, Rep. Maloney introduced the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act, which would provide law enforcement with the option to divert low-level drug offenders directly to treatment instead of booking them and sending them through the criminal justice system. Rep. Maloney also recently authored an op-ed on the need for new solutions to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. Just last week, Rep. Maloney visited Saint Christopher’s Inn in Garrison to receive Narcan training and meet with people recovering from addictions. Community members, especially parents, are encouraged to download Rep. Maloney’s Know the Signs Tip sheet and Community Resource Guide.
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after a man killed at least eight people in Manhattan by driving his truck onto a bike path. Details remain murky, but local, state, and federal authorities have described the incident as a terrorist attack. “I’m praying for all the innocent people who were killed, those who were hurt, and the families of everyone involved. “I want to thank the first responders who acted heroically in helping the injured and for taking down this terrorist. It will take a lot more than this coward to stop New York.”
10.27.2017	Chester, NY – In response to an impending shortage of farmers, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the introduction of the bipartisan Young and Beginning Farmers Act, which will help new farmers overcome the common barrier of access to land as well as improve access to critical programs that educate, train and assist young and beginning farmers in starting their career. In 1982, the average age of farmers was just over 50 years old, but that average had grown to nearly 60 by 2012, according to the Farm Census. Rep. Maloney is introducing the bill with Republican Ryan Costello (PA-6). “I hear from new farmers all the time who have an uphill battle trying to get access to land, who don’t know where to turn for help, or have to wait in an endless line to get help from the USDA – that has to change if we want to continue growing food in this country,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “Our farmers feed America, and we have to make sure the next generation has the land, tools, and training programs they need to start a successful career in agriculture.” “Agriculture is a cornerstone of the culture and economy of Orange County and we have to make sure the next generation of farmers is ready to take the place of folks who dedicated their lives to feeding America and are getting ready to enjoy their retirement,” said New York State Assemblyman James Skoufis. “Land access issues and red tape at the USDA get in the way of a lot of beginning farmers and Rep. Maloney’s new legislation will be a key part of resolving those problems.” “The Young and First Time Farmers Act touches on critical issues facing farmers in the Hudson Valley, and across the country,” said David Haight, New York State Director for the American Farmland Trust. “We look forward to working with Congressman Maloney and other sponsors to fight for federal funding in the next Farm Bill to help farmers protect their land and grow the regional food economy, and to ensure that federal farm programs meet the needs of local communities and the next generation of farmers. ” "Our country needs more farmers, and young people like me are ready to step up," said Sophie Ackoff, national field director for the National Young Farmers Coalition (NYFC). "But we can't do it alone. Supporting the next generation means recognizing that we face unique challenges. This bipartisan bill will help us access the farmland, training, and credit we need to succeed and feed our communities. Most importantly, it helps make young and beginning farmers a priority in the next farm bill." “This new legislation will be a boon for young growers and farmers to further establish themselves and thrive in the agricultural industry, and for protecting viable farmland from conversion to other land uses,” said Jeremy Schneider, Outreach and Programs Coordinator, Orange County Land Trust. “We applaud Congressman Maloney for providing sensible solutions to the issues facing the next generation in agriculture and for his commitment to sustaining Orange County’s agricultural economy and heritage.” “Conserving farmland and protecting New York's most productive agricultural lands depends on collaboration--farmers committed to preserving their fields and orchards, land trusts dedicated to helping farmers protect their lands and champions such as Congressman Maloney working to ensure those lands can pass to the next generation of farmers," said Althea Mullarkey, Scenic Hudson’s Public Policy Analyst. “Congressman Maloney’s proposed Young and Beginning Farmers Act offers exciting new energy for future conservation efforts and would help secure the future of so many family farms that are the engine of the state's agricultural economy.” The Young and Beginning Farmers Act will focus on three primary areas of concern for young farmers: access to land, USDA programs for young and beginning farmers, and investments in local and regional food systems. The bill will improve land access by making it easier for land trusts to protect farmland for beginning farmers, helping to speed up the process for beginning farmers to qualify for USDA resources that make it easier to acquire farmland, and increasing the USDA Direct Loan limit. It will also develop new resources at USDA like self-service portals and regional coordinators for beginning farmer support, reauthorize the vital beginning farmer and rancher development program, and fund individual development accounts to help farmers save for purchases. Finally, to improve local and regional food systems, the bill will fund the farmers market and local food promotion programs and establish a new farm viability grant program to help connect farmers with resources and experts. The bill has been endorsed by the National Young Farmers Coalition, Land Trust Alliance, American Farmland Trust, Scenic Hudson, and the Orange County Land Trust. Agriculture has been a top priority for Rep. Maloney since his first days in Congress. The first legislation he wrote, the bipartisan CROP Act, passed as part of the 2014 Farm Bill, along with other key Hudson Valley agriculture priorities. Over the past month, Rep. Maloney has also introduced the Local FARMS Act to help farmers deliver produce directly to their customers, secured $130,000 in investments to combat the Allium Leafminer, an invasive species of pest that threatens Orange County’s multi-million dollar onion industry, and met with his Agriculture Advisory Board to get input on the 2018 Farm Bill, which will be marked-up in the Agriculture Committee over the coming months.
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON – In response to concerns about the elimination of the State and Local Tax (SALT) Deduction, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) voted against the Republican budget that sets the stage for the passage of a forthcoming GOP tax bill. This budget is a mechanism to allow the Senate to pass a tax bill without a single Democratic vote and caps debate at 20 hours. The initiation of this process, known as “Budget Reconciliation,” signals an unwillingness to cooperate on a bipartisan bill. The Republican budget passed both the House and Senate without a single Democratic vote. “This budget is just a Trojan horse to pass a terrible tax bill that’s going to raise taxes on middle class families in the Hudson Valley by eliminating state and local deductions so we can give a big cut to the GOP’s donors and wealthy friends,” said Rep. Maloney. “I can’t vote for a budget that’s going to make it easier to jam through a bad tax bill that’s going to hurt the people I represent.” The tax plan released by the White House and Republican leadership calls for eliminating nearly all existing tax deductions, and doubling the standard deduction. This plan would be devastating for families in New York who deduct their local and state taxes. An actual bill is expected to be released as early as November 1st and is being drafted behind closed doors by Republican leadership. This is the same process Senate Republicans employed in the formulation of their defunct health care reform effort. Nearly 200,000 households in Rep. Maloney’s district claim the SALT deduction at an average rate of over $21,000.
10.24.2017	Newburgh, NY – Shortly after surveying the damage in Puerto Rico, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will convene a task force of local organizations to consolidate relief efforts and draft policy recommendations for federal aid efforts. The event will be held on Friday, October 27th at 1:30 PM at Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh office, 123 Grand Street, Second Floor, Newburgh, NY 12550. “We’ve got a ton of different groups stepping up to help our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico, and bringing those folks to the table to work together is always the right move,” said Rep. Maloney. “Speaking directly with the people on the ground in the Hudson Valley who are collecting supplies and raising funds is the best way for me to better understand local relief efforts and help us determine what else we can be doing in Washington to help the folks in Puerto Rico get back on their feet.” Various local officials, nonprofit organizations, and businesses have all worked to collect supplies in communities throughout the Hudson Valley. Rep. Maloney hopes that unifying these efforts will help the various entities to collaborate moving forward. Two weeks ago, Rep. Maloney visited the island on a Congressional Delegation trip to survey relief efforts and supported an emergency aid package the following week. Approximately 6% of Rep. Maloney’s district is of Puerto Rican ancestry. His office has assisted nearly a dozen constituents who were initially unable to locate family on the island in the wake of Hurricane Maria.
10.18.2017	Maloney Advocated for Investments, Met with Agriculture Secretary Perdue about Leafminer Goshen, NY – Surrounded by a bipartisan coalition of state and local lawmakers, farmers, and researchers, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he has secured two investments of $65,000 each to fund research to combat the Allium Leafminer. Rep Maloney secured $65,000 from the New York Farm Viability Institute’s (NYFVI) Focus Grant Program, and another $65,000 from the federal Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research’s (FFAR) Rapid Outcomes for Agriculture Research Program to allow Cornell University Researcher Dr. Brian Nault to develop strategies to destroy the pest. “If a swarm of these things descends on Orange County we are in big trouble – and I don’t just mean our farmers – a hit like that to the farming economy would have ripple effects that would hurt all kinds of businesses around here,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “This funding is a down payment on the first step of research, and our bipartisan team from all levels of government, the farm sector, and Cornell will keep on this until we have a surefire way to stop the Allium Leafminer.” "I want to thank Congressman Maloney for securing this funding,” said Orange County Executive Steve Neuhaus. “Orange County’s agricultural sector is important to our economy and is an integral part of our history. This bug could be devastating for farmers and this funding will help protect our farms, which are vital resources to the County." “The Allium Leafminer threatens the livelihood of hundreds of farmers I represent, and I want to thank Congressman Maloney for working to secure funding to stop it,” said Assemblyman James Skoufis. “This research is a great example of the local impact the New York Farm Viability Institute makes in Orange County, and I’m proud to support state funding to allow this organization to help our farmers.” “As a grower, I know how unnerving it is for a new pest to show up during growing season,” said Orange County Legislator Paul Ruszkiewicz. “I thank Cornell and Congressman Maloney for making this happen.” “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for quickly securing the funds needed to find an effective way to combat the Allium Leafminer which has the potential to cause millions of dollars in losses for our black dirt famers,” said Warwick Supervisor Michael Sweeton. “The Congressman’s leadership and advocacy on behalf of Warwick’s number one industry has once again been invaluable to the residents I represent” “I would like to thank Congressman Maloney for his letters of support that helped leverage funding from both the New York Farm Viability Institute and the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research that will be used for identifying immediate solutions for managing Allium leafminer,” said Dr. Brian Nault, Professor in the Department of Entomology at Cornell University’s New York State Agricultural Experiment Station and lead Allium Leafminer Researcher. “The funding will be used to conduct research that will enable us to better predict when and where Allium leafminer will occur in Allium crop fields, to identify practical and economical solutions for managing it in these crops, and to inform growers how to implement these management tactics on their farms.” “Congressman Maloney supports public funding for agricultural research which keeps our Land Grant universities relevant and the Cooperative Extension system nimble to address current needs, in this case, the invasive allium leaf minor,” said Lucy Joyce, Executive Director of Cornell Cooperative Extension of Orange County. “The impact of this funding is critically important to our local agricultural economy. In 2017, Alliums are worth almost $40 million in the lower Hudson Valley of which onions comprised $36 million while leek, shallot, chives, scallions, and garlic crops are valued at $4 million.” Rep. Maloney met with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue in May to secure his commitment to assist in efforts to stop the Allium Leafminer. Maloney also joined local leaders to call for federal investments in June and wrote letters of support to leverage funding from the NYFVI and FFAR. The federal Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research, a federal 501(c)3 created by the 2014 Farm Bill, builds public-private partnerships to innovate science that addresses today’s food and agriculture challenges. Rep. Maloney supported the 2014 Farm Bill, which created the organization and provided $200 million in federal funds, but required a non-federal match to be activated. The New York Farm Viability Institute is a grant making organization, led by volunteer farmers, funded primarily by New York State and committed to helping New York’s farmers become more profitable as well as improving the long-term economic viability and sustainability of New York’s farms, the food system, and the communities they serve. The allium leafminer is an invasive species of insect which destroys the foliage and stems of onions, leeks, garlic, chives, shallots, and green onions. The first pests were discovered in Orange County in mid-April. Local agriculture experts warn that the insect could inflict damage on the Orange County onion crop, but have limited information on the extent of the potential damage or how to stop it. Orange County produces half of New York State’s onion crop. The industry in Orange County alone generates $25 million in annual sales and employs hundreds of residents.
10.11.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will hold a workshop for Hudson Valley residents interested in attending one of our nation’s military academies this Saturday from 11:00 AM – 2:00 PM at the Dominican Center Café at Mount Saint Mary College at 330 Powell Ave in Newburgh. The workshop will provide useful information for people who are interested in the service academy application process. Representatives from all of the relevant service academies will also be in attendance to answer questions. The following institutions require a formal nomination from a member of Congress: United States Military Academy at West Point, NY United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings’ Point, NY In September, Maloney called for applications from interested high school students. Interested students must submit their completed applications to Rep. Maloney’s district office at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY 12550, no later than October 31, 2017. All applicants who have submitted their completed application materials will be contacted to schedule their interview with Rep. Maloney’s Service Academy Selection Board.
10.11.2017	Washington – After participating in a bipartisan Congressional Delegation trip to Puerto Rico to see the devastation wrought by Hurricane Maria, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called for urgent additional aid for the struggling U.S. territory. Rep. Maloney was invited to survey the damage and learn more about recovery efforts on the bipartisan, White-House organized trip. “Our initial response is finally coming together and although the challenges seem almost overwhelming, we will get through this crisis together as Americans,” said Rep. Maloney. “I remember being in the City on 9/11 and walking to work to find a pile of rubble and not knowing if my kid was safe and just feeling totally powerless – the folks in Puerto Rico are dealing with a serious crisis like that and we need to get in the game to help like we did after 9/11.” Rep. Maloney joined officials from the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to survey the damage. Rep. Maloney was one of several members of Congress from both parties who attended the trip. Other attendees included Senators Ron Johnson (R-WI), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Tim Kaine (D-VA). House members Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Lloyd Smucker (R-PA), and Resident Commissioner Jennifer Gonzalez-Colon (R-PR) were also in attendance. The House of Representatives will vote tomorrow on a $36.5 billion emergency aid package to Puerto Rico. The measure will provide $18.7 billion for FEMA and $16 billion for the flood insurance program. Nearly $5 billion of the funding allocated for FEMA will provide low-interest Treasury loans to help the Government of Puerto Rico continue to operate in the face of a massive debt crisis. This is the second of three anticipated funding boosts to help FEMA provide aid to areas recovering from Hurricanes Irma, Harvey and Maria. Video of Rep. Maloney speaking at a press conference in Puerto Rico is available here. Additional photos are also available upon request.
10.07.2017	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration released sweeping new guidance allowing federal employees to use religion as an excuse to openly discriminate against people of different religious affiliations, single parents, divorcees, people who are sexually active but unmarried, those who use birth control, and anyone in the LGBTQ community. It would also allow federal contractors and grantees to fire employees on the same religious criteria. Under the new guidance, federal grant recipients that discriminate against beneficiaries could also continue to receive funding if they claimed the discrimination was motivated by religion. "This is America dammit. It doesn't matter which religion you're a part of or your marriage status or who you love - everyone gets fair access to government services and our taxpayer dollars don't subsidize hate or bigotry. Everyone should be furious about this rule - it would allow a homeless shelter that gets taxpayer money to turn away a single mom because having a kid out of wedlock violates their faith. It would allow a federal contractor to fire a Jewish employee or a divorced employee, or a gay employee all because it "violates their faith." It would also allow a VA Employee to refuse to help a dying veteran because the veteran has done something the employee considers to be a violation of their faith. This is not what America is all about. "This is discrimination pure and simple - and thanks to the Trump Administration it will be coming to a federal agency, contractor, or grant recipient near you. Things have gotten out of control and the Administration needs to roll back this garbage, anti-American rule. Who could possibly think this is a good idea?" Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
10.06.2017	Poughkeepsie, NY – In response to the recent explosion of interest in organic and locally-grown foods, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, announced the introduction of the bipartisan Local Food and Regional Market Supply (FARMS) Act to support local farmers and consumers. The bill would overhaul and consolidate valuable USDA programs to improve efficiency and assistance for farmers and farm organizations as well as help farmers meet food safety and certification requirements, enhance distribution, and expand farm-to-school programs. “This bill is the real deal—it’ll do wonders for our rural farm economies throughout the Hudson Valley while providing more opportunities to feed New York—it’s a win for everyone,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “Talk to any farmer and they’ll tell you how hard it is to get their food directly to customers—this will smooth some of those roadblocks, reduce the headaches for farmers, and make it easier for folks to get their hands on clean, locally grown food.” “Dutchess County’s history and future are rooted in agriculture,” said Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro. “Our agriculture industry is vibrant and growing, with farmers who have enthusiasm and passion for delivering healthy, locally sourced food products to consumers. We are grateful to Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for championing initiatives that can open new distribution channels to farmers, making it easier to get wholesome, healthy foods to consumers who can benefit the most from them.” "Agriculture has long been a fundamental driver of our economy, especially here in the Hudson Valley where our local farms are renowned for their superior quality,” said New York State Senator Sue Serino. “We’re at a critical point in our history where ‘thinking local’ is a trending initiative, ‘farm to table’ is synonymous with quality, and consumers are actively using their purchasing power to make positive impacts on our communities. I am glad to see that Congressman Maloney and our representatives at the federal level recognize the need to cut through the red tape, streamline processes and invest in our farmer’s ability to fuel our community. This legislation is good for our farmers and it’s good for our families, and I thank the Congressman for putting a spotlight on it here today." "Hudson Valley farmers and vendors make essential contributions to the cultures and economies of New York State,” said New York State Assemblyman Frank Skartados. “I am especially happy to see younger generations start farms of their own, even as financial barriers and a lack of access to land often stand in their way. I support any measure like the Local FARMS Act that encourages the development of local agriculture and commerce and therefore the health and wellbeing of our communities and people.” “I appreciate the efforts in support of Congressman Maloney in his sponsorship of the Local FARMS Act,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “Access to good food leads to better nutrition and the health of a community. We have an obligation and a responsibility to make sure that government, in partnership with other members of the agricultural community, does everything it possibly can to increase the accessibility and protection of our food supply. We are lucky to live in the Hudson Valley which gives our community access to local food.” “The Local FARMS act supports our farmers and the food systems the Hudson Valley region with a comprehensive approach from the field to the plate,” said Todd M. Erling, Executive Director of the Hudson Valley AgriBusiness Development Corp. “From on farm production, food safety, and distribution to access and nutrition education, this bill proposes improving programs and increasing funding for critical elements of our local economies. The individual components taken together have the power to enable our farm and food producers to grow and thrive while increasing access and affordability to fresh nutritional food for our communities. We recognize that agriculture and food systems are really about rural-urban relationships. The Local FARMS Act creates new support structures to engage and enhance these rural-urban partnerships.” “We’re lucky enough to be a current recipient of a USDA farm-to-school grant – in fact it’s our second. What we’ve been able to do with those funds is really great for our community,” said Jamie Levato, Education Director, Poughkeepsie Farm Project. “We’re hoping this legislation can help support our work, and we’re very grateful to Representative Maloney for his work so far.” HR 3941, the Local FARMS Act would: • Consolidate key programs into the Agricultural Market Development Program, which would be a one-stop shop for farmers and other supply chain participants to expand local food market opportunities; • Address veterans' hunger by expanding eligibility for the Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program to all veterans; • Provide resources to farmers for food safety certification and equipment upgrade expenses; • Promote local food procurement and education in schools; • Ensure USDA grants and loans can be used to support local livestock, dairy and poultry processing infrastructure; • Help domestic organic farmers meet the growing demand for organic food by continuing the organic cost-share program; and • Connect food and medicine through a pilot program that would provide produce prescriptions to low-income individuals. Farmers selling local food through direct marketing channels have seen an incredible growth in economic opportunities. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, over 160,000 U.S. farmers sold $8.7 billion worth of local food to directly to consumers, retailers, institutions and local distributors in 2015—$3 billion directly to consumers, $2.4 billion to retailers, and $3.4 billion to institutions and businesses that market locally branded products. Of those producers, 81 percent sold all their food within 100 miles of the farm. In rural communities, boosting local and regional food markets can have a significant impact on local economies and help keep rural families on the farm. Direct marketing channels also serve as an important entry point for new farmers who are breaking into the industry for the first time. Investing in local food markets would offer consumers more choices while helping farms diversify their incomes to become more sustainable. The bill is being introduced by Reps. Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) in the House of Representatives. A companion version is being introduced in the Senate by Sherrod Brown (D-OH). The bill is supported by the National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition, National Farmers Union, American Farmland Trust, National Young Farmers Coalition, Food Corps, Wholesome Wave, Tisch Center for Food, Education & Policy at Columbia University, Self-Help Credit Union and Affiliates, and the Northeast Organic Farming Association.
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Reps. Jackie Walorski (R-Ind.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa) to introduce legislation which will strengthen public-private partnerships and boost investment in America’s infrastructure. The Move America Act will expand private activity bonds and infrastructure tax credits, which will attract billions of dollars in capital and give state and local governments greater flexibility to fund critical infrastructure projects. “This bipartisan bill will help jumpstart our local economies and create a ton of good-paying jobs for people all across the country,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “It will help make real investments in our aging infrastructure and allow us to get a lot done by teaming up with the private sector and that’s just good sense.” “A strong American economy depends on a modern infrastructure built for the 21st century,” said Congresswoman Walorski. “Public-private partnerships are among the most cost-effective ways to revitalize our aging infrastructure and invest in our nation’s future. The bipartisan Move America Act will give state and local governments the tools and flexibility they need to leverage private dollars for the infrastructure projects most important to our communities.” “American infrastructure is falling apart and we’re falling behind. It is critical that we consider every approach to fixing our crumbling infrastructure,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The Move America Act will support billions of dollars in much-needed investment to help rebuild and renew our country.” The Move America Act would allow states to issue tax-exempt Move America Bonds to expand public-private partnerships and lower borrowing costs. Incentives for state and local governments to offer these bonds include flexible ownership and management arrangements, favorable tax treatment, and up to five years of unused bond carry-over. They would be allocated to states based on population. The bill would also create Move America Tax Credits to leverage additional private investment by enabling smaller states to trade in some or all of their bond allocation for tax credits at a 25 percent rate. Credits could be attached to direct investment in a project or used to capitalize state infrastructure banks or revolving funds. Eligible infrastructure projects include roads, bridges, airports, rail, transit, ports, freight transfer facilities, waterways, sewers, and broadband internet. The Move America Act would leverage $8 billion in federal funding into an estimated $226 billion worth of bond authority or $56 billion in tax credits over the next decade.
10.02.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after a gunman in Las Vegas killed more than 50 people and injured hundreds of others. “I’m thinking about all those lost and their loved ones and praying that they find some comfort. I’m also thankful for the bravery and heroism of the first responders and medical workers. “But thoughts and prayers won’t keep this from happening again and again. We need all the facts, but common sense tells us we can do more as a community to address mental illness, hatred and gun violence, and we must."
09.26.2017	Newburgh, NY – Only a day after announcing an investment for a homeless youth shelter in Orange County, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced another federal investment of $136,814 for Green Chimneys Children’s Services, a Hudson Valley nonprofit that provides help to runaway and homeless youth. The investment, made through the Department of Health and Human Services Administration for Children and Families, will fund the shelter’s transitional living program for homeless youth. “As a father of three, it’s hard to imagine any child sleeping without a roof over their head or feeling like they don’t have a safe place to go,” said Rep. Maloney. “As a community, we have to commit to finding safe places for homeless youth in the Hudson Valley, and this investment will help Green Chimneys get that done.” “Green Chimneys is thrilled to receive federal funding for our Putnam County, New York Transitional Living Program through the Administration for Children and Families,” said Kristin Dionne, Director of Green Chimneys. “This funding is vital for us to continue to serve runaway, homeless and at-risk youth. We thank Congressman Maloney for his support in addressing the needs of vulnerable youth in our district and look forward to working on making this a safe, supportive community for all youth.” Green Chimneys currently serves about 200 children, the majority of whom are runaway, homeless, and street youth in crisis in Putnam County. Through their community based services, the organization offers a variety of programs that promote positive development, healthy choices, and effective family communication. Support programs dedicated to LGBTQ youth who are homeless include residential services and career training to provide resources and develop vital skills to help them enter adulthood as healthy, responsible members of their communities. Ultimately, the organization’s goal is to reunite the child with their family and avoid juvenile detention, foster care, or mental health facilities. Founded in 1947, Green Chimneys is a multi-faceted nonprofit organization helping young people to maximize their full potential by providing residential, educational, clinical, and recreational services, in a safe and supportive environment that nurtures connections with their families, the community, animals and nature. They are headquartered on a farm and wildlife center in Brewster, N.Y. and are continually recognized as a leader in the industry for their efforts.
09.25.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $150,000 in Honor EHG Inc., an organization in Orange County dedicated to helping people struggling with homelessness. The investment, made by the Department of Health and Human Services’ Administration for Children and Families, will allow the agency to continue to provide temporary housing, food, and counseling to homeless youth through their Friend’s House program. “We have to do everything we can to get kids off the street or out of dangerous situations at home and into a safe place to stay,” said Rep. Maloney. “This investment will help Honor EHG continue their great work and help innocent children escape abuse.” “This is a safe haven for youth 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Unfortunately, most of these kids are coming from abusive family situations so our primary concern is to develop a sense of compassion and understanding,” said Executive Director Christopher Molinelli. “We are just so thankful to the Congressman for his support and the work he continues to do.” The Friend’s House has been open since 1993 and is one of three programs administered by Honor EHG. An adult and family shelter and a transitional women’s shelter are also operated on the campus. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has provided essential funding to the operation of the organization for years. The shelter serves between 200-225 homeless and runaway children per year and partners directly with Orange County. The vast majority of runaways served by the organization are fleeing domestic abuse. Honor EHG provides shelter, food, clothing, and professional counseling. The organization’s ultimate goal is to develop an exit plan for the children it serves, whether it involves family mediation and counseling or creating a path for children to live independently.
09.25.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Hurricane Maria killed ten people in Puerto Rico and left the entire U.S. Territory without electricity and clean water. “Millions of American citizens in Puerto Rico are in serious danger – they don’t have electricity, they don’t have clean water, and they needed our help yesterday. We’ve got the resources and personnel necessary to save lives and help our fellow Americans rebuild – it’s time to get in gear and get them on the ground. I urge the President to send help immediately and to send Congress an updated FEMA funding request ASAP.”
09.20.2017	Two months after an amendment to protect servicemembers from being harassed by debt collectors passed as part of the House version of the defense bill, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) announced that an identical version of the amendment passed in the Senate. The Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act, attached as an amendment to both versions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), would prevent predatory debt collectors from contacting servicemembers’ superior officers in attempt to collect payment. “It’s good news for military families that this legislation passed the Senate,” Senator Warren said. “The predatory debt collection practices identified by the CFPB are outrageous. That’s why I worked with Rep. Maloney to get this legislation passed so that DOD will update its policies and strengthen servicemember protections.” “I want to thank Senator Warren for her leadership in the Senate and partnering with me to get this done,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our servicemembers shouldn’t have to worry about debt collectors calling their superiors and getting them in trouble at work – that wouldn’t fly in the private sector and it shouldn’t be allowed in our military.” After a 2016 report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Office of Servicemember Affairs found that an alarming number of members of the armed services were targets of predatory debt collection methods, Rep. Maloney authored the Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act to ensure that the Department of Defense provides clear protections for servicemembers from these predatory practices. The report pointed to the fact that, of all of their complaints received for the year, a shocking 46 percent of complaints from servicemembers were regarding debt collection practices. Last year, Rep. Maloney’s legislation was included in the FY 2017 NDAA and passed the House but was not passed by the Senate. In July, Maloney announced that the provision passed as part of the House version of the NDAA along with his Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act of 2017. Senator Warren’s leadership in Senate proceedings ensured that the amendment would pass the Senate version of the bill.
09.20.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $297,332 in Mount Saint Mary College to fund efforts to combat violence on campus. The investment, made through the Department of Justice (DOJ) Grants to Reduce Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking on Campus Program, will allow the college to continue and expand existing programs to protect students from violence. “These kids should be worrying about their next exam - not the threat of violence,” said Rep. Maloney. “Students on college campuses should feel safe, first and foremost. This investment will go a long way in helping Mount Saint Mary keep up their fight against the national epidemic of campus sexual violence and continue to make their campus safe for everyone.” “As part of Mount Saint Mary College’s continuing commitment to maintain a safe and welcoming campus for all, we are grateful to have been chosen to receive this grant,” said Dr. David Kennett, Mount Saint Mary College interim president. “In response to the growing national conversation regarding the safety of college campuses, these resources will enable the Mount to maintain the best practice in our services to the student body, heighten awareness and prevention of violence, and focus on advocacy. This coordinated community response will establish a comprehensive, cutting-edge program that will serve all members of Mount Saint Mary College.” Approximately 78% of MSMC’s 2,500 students are female. MSMC has partnered with three local organizations in Orange County to build awareness around campus sexual assault. MSMC and its partner organizations will use the investment to establish a comprehensive response to violence against women, work to prevent violence before it happens, and increase engagement with underserved populations. The Office on Violence Against Women is administered by the Department of Justice. The OVW provides help to citizens in order to kick start programs aimed at eliminating sexual assault and providing education. More information on the Office on Violence Against Women can be found at https://www.justice.gov/ovw.
09.20.2017	Originally Introduced After CFPB Report on Predatory Practices, Legislation Will Prohibit Debt Collectors from Contacting Superior Officers in Attempt to Collect Payment Two months after an amendment to protect servicemembers from being harassed by debt collectors passed as part of the House version of the defense bill, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) announced that an identical version of the amendment passed in the Senate. The Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act, attached as an amendment to both versions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), would prevent predatory debt collectors from contacting servicemembers’ superior officers in attempt to collect payment. “It’s good news for military families that this legislation passed the Senate,” Senator Warren said. “The predatory debt collection practices identified by the CFPB are outrageous. That’s why I worked with Rep. Maloney to get this legislation passed so that DOD will update its policies and strengthen servicemember protections.” “I want to thank Senator Warren for her leadership in the Senate and partnering with me to get this done,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our servicemembers shouldn’t have to worry about debt collectors calling their superiors and getting them in trouble at work – that wouldn’t fly in the private sector and it shouldn’t be allowed in our military.” After a 2016 report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Office of Servicemember Affairs found that an alarming number of members of the armed services were targets of predatory debt collection methods, Rep. Maloney authored the Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act to ensure that the Department of Defense provides clear protections for servicemembers from these predatory practices. The report pointed to the fact that, of all of their complaints received for the year, a shocking 46 percent of complaints from servicemembers were regarding debt collection practices. Last year, Rep. Maloney’s legislation was included in the FY 2017 NDAA and passed the House but was not passed by the Senate. In July, Maloney announced that the provision passed as part of the House version of the NDAA along with his Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act of 2017. Senator Warren’s leadership in Senate proceedings ensured that the amendment would pass the Senate version of the bill.
09.19.2017	U.S. Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer and U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) sent a letter to the Department of Veterans Affairs today demanding that the agency reverse its decision to cut funding for Hudson River Housing’s vital and effective homeless veterans program. On September 7th, the VA notified the organization that they would not receive an expected grant of over $500,000 to maintain services for homeless veterans. “Our brave veterans in Dutchess County and around the country fought to protect our freedom and it’s our obligation to care for them,” said Senator Schumer. “Our message to the Department of Veteran Affairs is crystal clear: reverse course on this wrongheaded decision to cut-off funding to this vital and successful Hudson River housing program to prevent veterans from becoming homeless.” “We shouldn’t cheap out when it comes to getting our veterans off the street and into safe housing,” said Rep. Maloney. “We have an important responsibility to our veterans and I’ll keep working with folks like Senator Schumer and our local officials until we fulfill that obligation.” Hudson River Housing will apply for an emergency one month extension to allow the organization to finish its existing cases. Local leaders including Senator Schumer, Rep. Maloney, Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro, and State Senator Sue Serino have all collaborated on finding alternative options to maintain services for veterans and called on the VA to reverse its decision. Last week, Molinaro sent a letter to the VA requesting that the agency reverse its decision. Rep. Maloney sent another letter directly to President Trump asking him to intervene in the matter. Hudson River Housing in the City of Poughkeepsie has received an investment of $516,145 every year for the past five years from the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. The investment has allowed the organization to employ five full-time staff who provide wraparound services to homeless veterans. Two staff members are veterans themselves. Since starting the program in 2012, HRH has helped over 450 homeless or at-risk veteran families and are currently providing services to thirty veterans. The U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness recently confirmed that Dutchess County had effectively ended homelessness among veterans. However, this status is reliant on local organizations which have the capacity to assist individual veterans who are at-risk or have recently become homeless. The full text of the letter is available below and a copy of the original is available here. Dear Secretary Shulkin, We write you today regarding the recent news that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) intends to deny Hudson River Housing’s application for renewal of their Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program (SSVF) grant funding. These funds are essential to providing services for homeless veterans, their families, and veterans at risk of becoming homeless. The VA’s decision is misguided and is at odds with its core mission of caring for America’s veterans. We request that you immediately reverse your decision and restore Hudson River Housing’s SSVF grant funding. The SSVF grant funds five full-time staffers at Hudson River Housing, two of whom are veterans themselves. Their jobs will be lost without these funds, and they will be unable to provide essential services to homeless Hudson Valley veterans and their families. Through the good work of these folks at Hudson River Housing, Dutchess County has been able to effectively end homelessness among veterans. But Hudson River Housing continues to see dozens of new cases every year. The loss of the SSVF grant means that many veterans with cases in the program could find themselves facing further hardship. Mr. Secretary, this is, simply put, unacceptable. The men and women of the VA have been entrusted with keeping our nation’s promise to our veterans to care for them when they come home. This is especially true of our most vulnerable veterans – those facing homelessness. Denying Hudson River Housing these crucial funds would be breaking that promise. Mr. Secretary, We ask you to do the right thing, reverse this misguided decision and restore these critical funds to the dedicated people of Hudson River Housing. We look forward to your response, and please do not hesitate to contact our offices should you need additional information.
09.14.2017	Hudson River Housing Veterans Program At-Risk of Closure by October First Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and local officials condemned a decision by the Department of Veterans Affairs to deny an anticipated annual federal investment of over $500,000 to Hudson River Housing. If no action is taken, funding will run out and the program will be terminated after September 30th. “Hudson River Housing has been an absolute lifeline for hundreds of men and women who wore our country’s uniform and needed some help when they got home. This heartless decision would leave them out in the cold,” said Rep. Maloney. “This breaks our sacred promise to our veterans and turns our back on them when they need us most.” “Veterans should have every expectation we will continue to support them and will not give up on them,” said Dutchess County Executive Marcus J. Molinaro. “These brave men and women put their lives at risk to ensure our safety and the security of our nation. Though Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) and our partnership with Hudson River Housing has led to a dramatic decrease in homelessness among veterans, the issue remains. We do not want to see even one veteran struggling to find safe shelter and secure housing. With little notice the Department of Veterans Affairs’ decision to deny another year of SSVF support in our community is shortsighted and illogical. We are grateful to Congressmen John Faso and Sean Maloney and Senator Chuck Schumer for speaking up for Dutchess County's and America's veterans. We cannot allow any veteran to be left out in the cold, to struggle on their own. Dutchess County stands with our veterans and will keep fighting for every one of them.” “Since 2012, Hudson River Housing has been able to assist over 500 families who would have otherwise been homeless without this funding,” said New York State Senator Sue Serino. “This harmful decision to eliminate this grant, which has effectively reached so many veterans in need, illustrates either a lack of understanding of the critical need it fills or a callous disregard for our veterans. I implore the Division of Veterans Affairs to reconsider and provide this critical funding to ensure that our homeless veterans and their families are not abandoned by the nation they have courageously served.” “On behalf of the homeless Veteran families that Hudson River Housing proudly serves, we are devastated by the news of the defunding of our Support Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) grant,” said Hudson River Housing Executive Director Christa Hines. “The possible closure of the SSVF program will cause an immediate and serious impact on the at-risk and homeless Veteran community that we serve and potentially reverse all of the progress that Hudson River Housing and our partners have made to address Veteran homelessness in Dutchess County. The manner in which we received notification that funding we have relied upon since 2012 would be completely eliminated in 2 weeks just furthers our disappointment and magnifies the impact this will have on the Veterans we serve. We appreciate the willingness of our Congressional representatives, John Faso and Sean Patrick Maloney, our Senator Charles Schumer and State Senator Sue Serino as well as Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro who joined with us in questioning why this funding was cut and their advocacy on our behalf with the Administration." Hudson River Housing will apply for an emergency one month extension to allow the organization to finish its existing cases. Local leaders are working together to appeal the decision or secure an extension. Rep. Maloney sent a letterdirectly to the President, asking him to intervene on behalf of local veterans. Dutchess County Executive Molinaro wrote an additional letter to the VA. Hudson River Housing in the City of Poughkeepsie has received an investment of $511,000 every year for the past five years from the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. The investment has allowed the organization to employ five full-time staff who provide wraparound services to homeless veterans. Two staff members are veterans themselves. Since starting the program in 2012, HRH has helped over 450 homeless or at-risk veteran families and are currently providing services to thirty veterans. The U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness recently confirmed that Dutchess County had effectively ended homelessness among veterans. However, this status is reliant on local organizations which have the capacity to assist individual veterans who are at-risk or have recently become homeless. Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has worked to secure nearly $2 million to assist homeless veterans in the Hudson Valley. In July, he introduced the Housing Our Heroes Act, which would create a three-year $25 million pilot program within the VA to provide grants to VSOs and other non-governmental organizations to acquire and update blighted properties for the purpose of housing homeless veterans.
09.12.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), the first openly gay member of Congress elected from the State of New York, released the following statement in response to the death of LGBTQ rights activist Edith Windsor. Windsor was the plaintiff and namesake of the historic 2013 Windsor v. United States Supreme Court decision, which overturned the Defense of Marriage Act. “Edith Windsor isn’t just an LGBTQ hero, she’s an American hero. Even in her eighties, she was willing to stand up and fight for equality before the Supreme Court. Her strength and determination laid the groundwork for the other gains our community has made in recent years, and she will be missed. I hope everyone will join me in mourning this tremendous loss for the LGBTQ community, the State of New York, and the country.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York and Co-Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their children.
09.11.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the sixteenth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks on the United States. “Sixteen years ago today was one of the darkest moments in our country’s history. Although we lost so many friends and neighbors on 9/11, the lasting legacy of that day is not one of fear but of heroism and selflessness. From the minutes following the attack to the months and years of recovery efforts that came after, our first responders and everyday Americans gave their time, their resources, and in some cases their lives to save strangers and help our country heal. This anniversary is a reminder that when the chips are down, Americans are unstoppable when we stand together.” Rep. Maloney was a proud co-sponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which was introduced in the House by fellow New Yorker, Rep. Carolyn Maloney. The bill was passed into law in 2015, and reauthorized the Victim Compensation Fund for the next 25 years. The program provides compensation to 9/11 responders and survivors and their families for physical injuries and potential life-threatening health effects due to the toxins released at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.
09.07.2017	Washington – After working to kill the Coast Guard’s initial proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his amendment to defund future attempts to establish these sites passed with unanimous support in the House of Representatives. The amendment, attached to a bill which funds the Coast Guard, would prohibit the agency from establishing any anchorages along the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. “Just in case anyone gets any bright ideas, this is one more way to make sure that stupid proposal stays dead and buried,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m not letting my guard down on this, and even after the PAWSA process, this will make sure that our river is safe and doesn’t become a parking lot for oil barges.” "This action barring expenditure for new Anchorages will help safeguard the Hudson from potentially devastating risks to the environment and economy of the region,” said Ned Sullivan, President of Scenic Hudson. “Scenic Hudson is grateful for Congressman Maloney's tireless and effective leadership on this key issue.” "Over 10,000 New Yorkers have risen up to stop the Hudson River from becoming a parking lot for crude oil-carrying barges and tankers,” said Paul Gallay, President of Riverkeeper, Inc. “We thank Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for working to ensure that the Coast Guard will not expend funds to advance this unnecessary and environmentally unsound plan for the next year." Rep. Maloney’s amendment prohibits funds appropriated by the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2018 from being used to establish anchorages on the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston. The combined funding bill includes allocations for the Coast Guard. If passed into law, this amendment would make it impossible for the agency to establish any anchorage sites in the specified area prior to October 1, 2018. In March, Rep. Maloney introduced legislation called the Hudson River Protection Act, which would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, a nuclear power plant, a site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard proposal was looking at for potential anchorages. In July, Rep. Maloney and local stakeholders announced the next steps regarding the U.S. Coast Guard anchorage proposal, which was suspended on June 28, 2017. The Coast Guard announced that it will conduct a “Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment” or PAWSA to determine next steps and inform future rulemakings. The PAWSA is still being planned, but will include working groups of stakeholders appointed by the Coast Guard. In response, Rep. Maloney demanded the Coast Guard establish certain standards for the creation of the upcoming PAWSA. You can read a copy of Rep. Maloney’s letter to the Coast Guard here.
09.06.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced today that his office is accepting applications from Hudson Valley students seeking a nomination to one of the U.S. Service Academies. Rep. Maloney can nominate students to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London do not need a Congressional nomination. “It’s an honor to nominate young people to our nation’s service academies and it’s a part of the job I look forward to most,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the West Point Board of Visitors. “We’ve got some incredibly talented kids right here in the Hudson Valley, and it’s always inspiring to meet so many young people who are committed to serving their country.” Interested students must submit their completed applications to Rep. Maloney’s district office at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY 12550, no later than October 31, 2017. All applicants who have submitted their completed application materials will be contacted to schedule their interview with Rep. Maloney’s Service Academy Selection Board. The application process is open to all interested high school seniors in New York’s 18th Congressional District. Students are encouraged to research the specific academies on their respective websites for further information on the nomination and selection process. Detailed information and a downloadable application are available here. Any questions may be directed to Cullen Lyons, Senior Veterans Advocate, at 845-561-1259.
09.05.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced President Donald Trump’s plan to eliminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program by March 5, 2018. “In America we don’t punish children for the sins of their parents. These kids only know life in America, they work hard, they do things the right way, and make a contribution to our country. It is a cruel and stupid idea to ship these children to some country they barely remember and throw away their talents all because their parents did something wrong a long time ago. “Folks in Congress need to get off their butts and pass a comprehensive fix for our broken immigration system that will secure our borders, get folks out of the shadows, and solve this problem once and for all.”
09.05.2017	Highland Falls, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined top officials from the Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery Central School District to oppose President Trump’s budget proposal, which would eliminate Impact Aid funding for federally-impacted lands. Because 93% of the Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery Central School District is composed of untaxable land, the district relies on Impact Aid for 12% of its total funding. “Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos said Impact Aid doesn’t help any students, but she obviously doesn’t know what she’s talking about,” said Rep. Maloney. “Kids here in Highland Falls, including many children of folks at West Point, rely on this funding for a good education – they deserve better than these kind of reckless cuts.” “The Highland Falls - Fort Montgomery Central School District appreciates the advocacy that Congressman Maloney has shown and continues to show in regards to Federal Impact Aid,” said School Superintendent Dr. Frank Sheboy. “More than ever, the children of the District need him to continue to fight for this program. With nearly 12% of the District's annual revenue coming from Federal Impact Aid under Section 7002, it is clear that a cut to this program would have a disastrous impact on the ability of the faculty and staff to meet the learning needs of our children.” “Impact Aid is not a nice-to-have – it’s a necessity and if we even lose a small piece of this funding, it will have a detrimental effect on every single student,” said School Board President Anne Lawless. “These students include children from the great communities of Highland Falls, Fort Montgomery and Garrison, as well as high school students of our families at the US Military Academy at West Point who are serving our country today.” “Sean Patrick Maloney has stood tall and firm with the children and families of this community from the beginning,” said School Legislative Liaison Roxanne Donnery. Federal Impact Aid assists school districts nationwide who lose revenue because of the presence of federal lands or lands that have been tax exempt by the Federal Government. President Trump’s budget proposes the complete elimination of Impact Aid funding for federally-owned land. The Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery Central School District receives approximately $3.4 million, or nearly 12%, of their funding from the program. In 2014, Representative Maloney worked to pass an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act which eliminated an artificial cap on Impact Aid funding for the district. Lifting this cap provided an additional $2 million annually which was being withheld.
08.30.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the hiring of former Army Combat Medic Khristian Silvis to serve as a Wounded Warrior Fellow in his Newburgh office. Silvis will join two other combat veterans on Rep. Maloney’s staff and focus on assisting Hudson Valley veterans cut through red tape at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Silvis Poses for a Picture While Serving in Afghanistan “Veterans have unique skills and experience that make them a great addition to any team – but they’re especially helpful in this line of work because they’ve been there,” said Rep. Maloney. “Vets know the challenges, they know the bureaucracy and they have each other’s backs – Khristian will be a great addition to our team and I look forward to working with her and our Hudson Valley veterans community.” “I am beyond excited and honored for the opportunity to join Rep. Maloney's staff and being able to directly help fellow veterans, especially those within the local community,” said Wounded Warrior Fellow Khristian Silvis. “This is the kind of continued service I've been wanting to do since I left the military.” Rep. Maloney currently employs two combat veterans, including a full-time veterans advocate who is charged with serving as a central point-of-contact for veterans and military families who need assistance with receiving their earned benefits. Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured over $3 million for local veterans. In 2013, Rep. Maloney welcomed another local veteran into his office through the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program. Congress established the Wounded Warrior Fellowship in 2008 to allow injured and disabled veterans to gain work experience and help expand their opportunities as they transition to full-time civilian employment. The Congressional Office of the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) manages the fellowship program. The program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and have a minimum 30% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
08.28.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to the flooding caused by Hurricane Harvey. “The images coming out of Texas are heartbreaking – hundreds of thousands of our fellow Americans are struggling just to keep their families safe. New Yorkers know what these storms can do – and we know how important it is to provide help to the people who are affected. “Political gamesmanship and partisan politics delayed Sandy relief and people suffered – we can’t let that happen again. Hurricane Harvey doesn’t care which party you’re in, and neither should we. As Americans, we have to come together to support the people of Texas with federal aid to our first responders.”
08.25.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump sent a memorandum to Secretary of Defense James Mattis regarding military service by transgender Americans. "This is a political decision that's more about attacking transgender Americans than keeping us safe. If you doubt the ability of transgender troops to complete their mission, you should do your homework. Transgender troops have served in some of our most elite units and graduated from our premier military academies - preventing them from serving is wrong and it's un-American." Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York and a Co-chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
08.24.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after the U.S. Navy announced that one of nine sailors missing after a collision between the USS John S. McCain and a merchant vessel off the coast of Singapore is a native of Poughkeepsie. “This is heartbreaking. Petty Officer Ingram is an American hero and this tragedy is a reminder of the risks that our servicemembers take every day to keep our country safe. I hope everyone in the Poughkeepsie area will join me in saying a prayer for him and the Ingram family.”
08.23.2017	Middletown, NY – Amid a national rental affordability crisis, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his introduction of the bipartisan First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act. The bill will allow Americans to withdraw up to $25,000 from their IRA for the purchase of their first home without being penalized when they file their taxes. Experts agree that homeownership is one of the best ways for middle class Americans to save for retirement. “Rental costs are out of control and housing isn’t getting any cheaper,” said Rep. Maloney. “It doesn’t make any sense for the government to penalize people who want to make a smart investment in their first home, and my bill would fix that.” “I support this bill wholeheartedly because I have three grown children, and they’re about to look for a permanent place to live,” said Assemblywoman Aileen Gunther. “I’m hoping this legislation will pass quickly in Washington – I don’t think anybody could oppose it.” “Being allowed to invest up to $25,000 is just investing in yourself and your future,” said Orange County Legislator Mike Paduch.“I’m very proud to support it.” “Homeownership is the American Dream,” said Wallkill Town Councilman Eric Johnson. “At the local level, it builds communities that we need, it builds a tax base, it builds a foundation that makes a safe place to grow up and for families to live.” “I am thrilled to see Rep. Maloney’s continued and consistent efforts to help residents in the Hudson Valley,” said New York State Association of Realtors Vice President for the Lower Hudson Valley Katheryn DeClerck. “I hope the word gets out to people all around the country to support this bill. Homeownership matters to everybody, it contributes to strong communities, people who purchase a home buy furniture and landscaping and invest in their communities.” “Homeownership is the foundation of our community,” said Executive Director of the Orange County Rural Development Advisory Corporation Faith Moore. “This provision will be an opportunity to add another tool to our assistance.” "We strongly support Congressman Maloney's First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act,” said Connie Fagan, Director of the Putnam County Housing Corporation. “Putnam County Housing Corporation's Housing Needs Assessment (January 2014) prepared by the Center for Housing Solutions, Pattern for Progress revealed, Eighty-eight percent (88%) of owners and renters in Putnam county, regardless of income level, are living in Unaffordable and Severely Cost Burdened Housing.' This bill would assist more young individuals and families in realizing the dream of owning a home in their community." High rents and high housing costs are making it increasingly difficult for first-time homebuyers to save money and invest in a home. Experts agree that home ownership is one of the best ways for middle-income families to achieve retirement security. Yet, first-time homebuyers make up only 32% of all buyers, which is the lowest rate since 1987. Additionally, the number of renters dedicating at least half of their income toward housing hit a record high of 11 million people in 2014, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University. In 1997, Congress passed legislation allowing first time homebuyers to withdraw up to $10,000 from their IRA without incurring a penalty. Under current law, individuals who withdraw more than $10,000 from their IRA before age 59.5 incur a 10% tax in addition to having the withdrawal subject to income taxes. Rep. Maloney’s First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act would increase the limit to $25,000 and index it to account for inflation.
08.09.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced three federal investments totaling $297,806 to fire districts in Mahopac Falls, Chester, and New Hampton. The funds, issued by FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, will allow the fire districts to acquire new protective equipment and technology for their staff. “Firefighters stick their necks out to literally save lives every day – the least we can do is make sure they have the equipment they need to protect themselves. These investments will help us keep up our end of the deal while our firefighters are out there doing a dangerous job,” said Rep. Maloney. The New Hampton Fire District will use the investment of $164,105 to update aging Self Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBAs), which provide firefighters with clean air as they respond to fire emergencies that often produce noxious chemicals. “The Board of Fire Commissioners, Officers and Firefighters of the New Hampton Fire District are excited to partner with Representative Maloney in the announcement of this award. We try very hard to be responsible custodians of the taxpayer’s money. The purchase of new SCBA (Self Contained Breathing Apparatus) with these funds will replace outdated equipment and take a huge burden off the taxpayers. This grant will help us keep fire protection taxes as low as possible, while continuing to train with and provide fire protection to the taxpayers and businesses of the New Hampton Fire District, with new and modern equipment,” said Terence Reynolds, Assistant Chief, New Hampton Fire District. The Chester Fire District will use the investment of $52,272 to acquire a ventilation system to eliminate fumes, which are often trapped in the station as fire engines start up and respond to emergencies. “This funding will help us get a new exhaust ventilation system to get rid of the fumes that come out of our trucks as they’re leaving the station. It’s an important safety feature that will help protect our firefighters’ lungs as they rush to fire emergencies,” said Brendan Medican Chairman, Board of Fire Commissioners Chester Fire District. The Mahopac Falls Fire District will use the investment of $81,429 to acquire 35 sets of turnout gear, helmets, and boots, which protect firefighters as they respond to emergencies. “This is going to be a great asset for our fire department and we’re very excited. This funding will help us replace outdated gear and will be a big relief on our budget,” said Jeff Boyle, Chief of the Mahopac Falls Fire Department. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the Department's United States Fire Administration. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be found at https://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley fire departments. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured over $9 million for Hudson Valley fire departments. Over $1 million of this funding has been directed at modernizing equipment, including protective gear, at fire districts in the Hudson Valley. Rep. Maloney has also secured millions to allow fire departments in Newburgh and Poughkeepsie to hire additional firefighters through AFG’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. Rep. Maloney will also host a workshop in Newburgh next month to help local fire departments effectively apply to grants through the AFG program.
07.28.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and John Katko (NY-24) announced bipartisan legislation to increase tick-borne illness prevention and improve public health efforts in states like New York with high rates of tick-borne diseases. “If you’re out hiking with your family or working on your farm and you get a tick bite, you should be able to get your hands on the tools you need to determine your level of risk and figure out your next steps,” said Rep. Maloney. “This pilot program will help states like New York bring our public outreach and education into the 21st century and give our people some peace of mind when they’re out enjoying nature.” “With steady increases in cases of tick-borne illnesses, like Lyme disease and Powassan, in Central and Upstate New York, it is critical that we work to move the ball forward on public health efforts to combat these diseases,” said Rep. John Katko. “The bipartisan legislation that I’ve introduced with Rep. Maloney will strengthen tick prevention efforts both through education and research.” “This legislation is timely. Tick-borne disease threats in New York State are at an all-time high. There is a critical need for more information on expanding tick distributions, as well as the development of new strategies and landscape management for controlling and reducing New York’s exposure to ticks and diseases, such as Lyme disease, babesiosis, Powassan/deer tick virus and other novel tick-borne parasites that are poised to invade our region,” said Laura Harrington, Program Director of the CDC Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector-borne Diseases. “In addition, much of the public information about ticks and Lyme disease in the region is inaccurate. The Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector-Borne Diseases is uniquely poised to address these issues for citizens of New York State and the greater Northeast region.” Philip Baker, Executive Director of the American Lyme Disease Foundation, said, "The American Lyme Disease Foundation supports this legislation. It is likely to provide useful information in the development of programs for the control of tick-borne diseases, especially in areas where such infections are endemic.” The Tick Identification Pilot Program Act of 2017 works to educate the general public on general tick-bite prevention methods, engage the public on tick-borne illnesses to improve public health outcomes, and collect data on tick populations as well as the frequency, seasonality, and geographic locations of tick encounters and/or bites. Specifically, this legislation would establish a pilot grant program under the CDC allowing states to apply for grants to establish tick identification programs. The tick identification programs would allow individuals to send pictures of ticks they encounter to a vector-borne biologist who would identify the tick and respond to the individual with: The species and life stage of the tick; An estimate of the risk that the tick is carrying a disease; A recommendation of the best practices for the individual who encountered the tick (including seeking medical evaluation and submitting the tick for testing); Additional education on best methods to avoid ticks and prevent contagion of tick-borne illnesses. New York is home to one of four national Centers for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases, funded by the CDC. Operated by Cornell University in Ithaca, NY, the Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases leads our region in research on tick populations and tick-borne illnesses. The resources already available to the Center make it a prime host for a tick identification program in New York State. As a result of the rapidly rising number of tick-borne disease cases in New York State, a bipartisan group of members from the New York delegation have cosponsored the Tick Identification Pilot Program Act of 2017, including Reps. King (NY-02), Clarke (NY-09), Engel (NY-16), Tonko (NY-20), Stefanik (NY-21), Tenney (NY-22), Reed (NY-23), Donovan (NY-11), and Faso (NY-19.) In December, Rep. Maloney announced that his bipartisan Tick-Borne Disease Research Transparency and Accountability Act, introduced with former Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19), passed into law as part of the 21st Century Cures Act. The law created an interagency working group consisting of federal agencies and non-federal partners, including experienced Lyme physicians and patient advocates with a broad spectrum of scientific viewpoints. The working group is tasked with ensuring coordination among federal agencies like the NIH and CDC to maximize research priorities. The law also requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to consult with the working group to submit a strategic plan to Congress within three years that includes benchmarks to measure progress. The plan must include a proposal for improving outcomes of Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases, including progress related to chronic or persistent symptoms, infections and co-infections.
07.27.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $1,161,201 for Head Start of Eastern Orange County, Inc. The investment, made though the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), will support early childhood programs for 227 children in eastern Orange County. “Getting our kids off on the right foot is the best way to make sure they’ll be happy, healthy, contributing members of society when they’re grownups,” said Rep. Maloney. “Head Start here in Orange County does a great job of that – and I’m thrilled we could secure another big investment on their behalf.” “I want to thank Rep. Maloney for helping us get this funding – it’s all going to support the early education and care for the children we serve. ” said Ann Pagliaro, Executive Director of Head Start of Orange County. “Head Start supports the development and growth of school readiness skills in young children to ensure they enter kindergarten ready to succeed.” Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide comprehensive child development programs for children from birth to age 5, pregnant women, and families. The programs focus on preparing children for school. Head Start of Eastern Orange County is a non-profit organization which provides education to more than 200 children in the Hudson Valley and employs more than 40 full-time staff. Their mission is to provide the highest quality program to meet the health, education, and social supports of children and families so that they can be successful in school and in life. This federal investment builds upon previous awards that Rep. Maloney secured for Head Start programs in Orange County. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured over $6 million for Head Start programs in Orange County. In April, Rep. Maloney announced another investment over $1 million for Head Start in Orange Country. These awards will continue to provide families across the Hudson Valley with the resources needed to provide education and development services for children and families.
07.26.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump tweeted a ban on transgender people serving in the United States Military. "Anyone who doubts the lethality of our trans service members should say that to Kristin Beck’s face – she’s a transgender member of SEAL Team 6, a veteran of Iraq and Afghanistan, and a Bronze Star and Purple Heart recipient. Anyone who doubts their abilities should talk to Riley Dosh who is being denied a commission after graduating from West Point. Anyone who doubts their bravery should tell Shane Ortega, who ran over 400 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Transgender people have served well and honorably and any suggestion otherwise is just prejudice.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
07.24.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced he is taking legislative action to ensure the Department of Defense pays for the remediation of PFOS and PFOA contamination at Stewart Air National Guard Base. Rep. Maloney is introducing an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2018, which would require $35 million to be used specifically for mitigation actions at National Guard installations where site inspections revealed PFC contamination. Rep. Maloney also supported the inclusion of language in the bill to provide an additional $15 million to Department of Defense for carbon filtration of PFCs at contaminated sites like Stewart. Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) were found in Newburgh’s water, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source and access to blood tests without placing the financial burden on the City. “We’ve secured clean drinking water at no cost to local taxpayers and we got free blood testing for residents – the last order of business is making sure DoD takes responsibility and pays for any clean up. I won’t take no for an answer so I’m taking legislative action to force DoD to pay for the damage they’ve caused in Newburgh,” said Rep. Maloney. “Thanks to the City of Newburgh, Commissioner Seggos and Governor Cuomo for joining me in this effort – together we’ll finish this fight.” “It’s clear from our ongoing research that the Department of Defense must move more quickly to clean up their mess in the Newburgh area,” said DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos. “Their continued recalcitrance to advance priority actions to eliminate sources of contamination in these waterbodies must end, and I am formally demanding they immediately take action to address contamination coming from Recreation Pond. We commend Congressman Maloney for pushing the federal government to act.” “Once again, we are reminded of the impact that this environmental issue has had on Orange County and our residents. I renew my calls to the DOD to take responsibility in remediating the hazardous conditions that were created in Newburgh and I applaud Congressman Maloney for his diligence in reference to this important public health issue,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for giving us the support and the backup that we needed at the right time to say that we as city officials have made the right call and that we’re doing the right thing to serve our residents in the City of Newburgh,” said Newburgh City Manager Michael Ciaravino. After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Rep. Maloney called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’s request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” On September 20, Maloney and state officials announced the launch of the New York State Department of Health’s biomonitoring program for Newburgh. In addition to hundreds of Newburgh residents, Rep. Maloney received his results as part of the round of blood test results released in February. In May 2016, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the EPA calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan. Rep. Maloney has also introduced two pieces of legislation to improve and expand testing and research for possible contamination of water supplies. Investing in Testing Act authorizes $15 million for a two year study by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to determine the health impact of PFOS contamination in drinking water, and The Clean Water Healthy Communities Act would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to test unregulated contaminants in communities with fewer than 10,000 people. The current EPA requirement for testing only applies to communities with more than 10,000 residents.
07.21.2017	Would Require Coast Guard to First Study and Report on Effects to River, Local Communities Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that federal legislation he wrote to halt the United States Coast Guard’s Proposed Rulemaking to expand mooring infrastructure on the Hudson River between Kingston and Yonkers was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 386-41. Rep. Maloney’s Anchorages Away Act, which was included in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Authorization Act of 2017, would require the Coast Guard, within 180 days of passage, to submit a report to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the impacts of these proposed anchorages on existing superfund sites and habitats of endangered species, as well as the Coast Guard’s response to these concerns. In addition, the Coast Guard will be prohibited from establishing any anchorages on the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston until at least 180 days after the submission of this report. “The original proposal is effectively dead, but I want to make sure it stays dead and buried,” said Rep. Maloney. “Getting my bill passed is just another way we can stop this thing and learn the effects that this – or any future – proposal will have on our river and our communities. I said I would do everything I can to kill this dumb idea once and for all – and you can be sure I’ll continue leading that fight.” In May, Rep. Maloney announced that the Anchorages Away Act was included as part of the Coast Guard Authorization Act. This bill was then included as part of the DHS Authorization Act of 2017. During the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee mark-up of the Coast Guard Authorization Act, Rep. Maloney spoke in favor of his legislation and encouraged the Coast Guard to end the dangerous proposed rulemaking. You can watch Rep. Maloney’s remarks here. Since the beginning, Rep. Maloney has fought to hold the Coast Guard accountable, ensure residents could make their voices heard on this issue, and ultimately stop this dangerous proposed rulemaking. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings, secured a 90-day extension to the comment period, and questioned Coast Guard officials. Rep. Maloney also submitted 404 comments from local residents to the U.S. Coast Guard. In addition to the Anchorages Away Act, Rep. Maloney also introduced legislation called the Hudson River Protection Act, which would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, a nuclear power plant, a site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard proposal was looking at for potential anchorages. Earlier this month, Rep. Maloney and local stakeholders announced the next steps regarding the U.S. Coast Guard anchorage proposal, which was suspended on June 28, 2017. Instead, the Coast Guard announced that it will conduct a “Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment” or PAWSA to determine next steps and inform future rulemakings. The PAWSA is still being planned, but will include working groups of stakeholders appointed by the Coast Guard. In response, Rep. Maloney demanded the Coast Guard establish certain standards for the creation of the upcoming PAWSA. You can read a copy of Rep. Maloney’s letter to the Coast Guard here.
07.21.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Putnam County Executive MaryEllen Odell announced that working together with Governor Andrew Cuomo they were able to restore veterans services office hours to Putnam County. In May, the Putnam County NY Veterans Service Agency announced that the NYS Division of Veterans Affairs Office was ending services at the Putnam County office. Together with County Executive Odell and Putnam County Director of Veterans Service Karl Rohde, Rep. Maloney successfully appealed this decision with Governor Cuomo, citing the unique needs of Putnam County veterans. Starting Monday, July 24, 2017, a representative will be holding office hours on Mondays and Fridays. Veterans can make an appointment by calling (888) 838-7697. “I want to thank Governor Cuomo and County Executive Odell for being team players on this and working with us to protect the Putnam County Veterans Agency,” said Representative Maloney, the son of a Navy Veteran. “It really doesn’t matter where you live – if you’re a veteran you should have somebody right in your community who can go to bat to help get the benefits you’ve earned.” “Thank you to Governor Cuomo and Congressman Maloney for doing the right thing for our veterans,” said Putnam County Executive MaryEllen Odell. “Thanks to Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney who worked for some time on our behalf to get the office re-opened, this is great news for Putnam County Veterans. A thanks and salute to both the Governor and the Congressman for doing the right thing and making sure the needs of our Veterans will again be met by the Division,” said Putnam County Veteran’s Service Agency Director Karl Rohde.
07.18.2017	Washington – After 16 service members lost their lives in a tragic plane crash in Mississippi last week, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) led his colleagues in a moment of silence on the House Floor to honor their service and sacrifice. Rep. Maloney was joined by Rep. Walter Jones, who represents Camp Lejune in North Carolina, and Rep. Steven Palazzo, who represents the district where the plane crashed in Mississippi. Click here to watch Rep. Maloney’s remarks. Rep. Maloney read the names of the service members who were killed, including nine who were stationed at Stewart Air National Guard Base in Newburgh, NY. Members of the Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 452 (VMGR-452) based at Stewart ANG base include: Major Caine Goyette, Captain Sean Elliott, Gunnery Sergeant Mark Hopkins, Gunnery Sergeant Brendan Johnson, Staff Sergeant Joshua Snowden, Sergeant Julian Kevianne, Sergeant Owen Lennon, Corporal Daniel Baldassare, and Corporal Collin Schaaf. In addition, six Marines and 1 Navy Corpsman, based at Camp Lejune in North Carolina were also killed. Their names are: Staff Sergeant Robert Cox, Staff Sergeant William Kundrat, Sergeant Chad Jenson, Sergeant Talon Leach, Sergeant Joseph Murray, Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman, and Petty Officer 2nd Class Ryan Lohrey.
07.14.2017	Washington – Two pieces of legislation authored by Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) passed the House of Representatives as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Passed by a vote of 344-81, the NDAA reauthorizes important national defense programs and included Rep. Maloney’s legislation to cut down on veteran’s disability claims wait times, and his bill to protect servicemembers from predatory debt collectors. After a 2016 report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Office of Servicemember Affairs found that an alarming number of members of the armed services were targets of predatory debt collection methods, Rep. Maloney authored the Protecting Servicemembers from Debt Collectors Act to ensure that the Department of Defense provides clear protections for servicemembers from these predatory practices. The report pointed to the fact that, of all of their complaints received for the year, a shocking 46 percent of complaints from servicemembers were regarding debt collection practices. Last year, Rep. Maloney’s legislation was included in the FY 2017 NDAA and passed the House but was not passed by the Senate. “I was disgusted when I heard that debt collectors were targeting our nation’s heroes by calling their superior officers. Third party debt collectors aren’t allowed to just call up someone’s boss in the private sector and harass them, in fact all Americans are protected from overly aggressive tactics by these guys. These protections aren’t being extended to our servicemembers and that’s ridiculous and it’s wrong. That’s why I got this legislation going to make sure the DoD updates its policies and ensure these debt collectors cut it out and stop inappropriately harassing our servicemembers and their commanding officers,” said Rep. Maloney. Rep. Maloney’s Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act of 2017 also passed as part of NDAA. This legislation allows veterans to have their medical examinations done by physicians outside the VA system to help process veterans’ disability claims faster. Currently, 20% of claims are processed through physicians outside the VA system, but the program is set to expire this year. Without action from Congress to extend this important authorization, the VA system would be even more overburdened and we could see a return to the days of massive disability claims backlogs. Rep. Maloney has passed similar versions of this bill in 2013 and 2015. “As the son of a disabled veteran, I know our veterans deserve better than long wait times and bureaucratic red tape standing between them and the benefits they earned while serving our country. This legislation makes sure we keep in place a critical tool the VA needs to continue fighting the backlog of disability claims,” said Rep. Maloney. “Because of this program our veterans are able to see doctors outside the VA system and get the care they need and deserve.”
07.11.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $70,000 to help the Hudson Valley Regional Council to develop and implement a comprehensive economic development strategy for seven counties in the Hudson Valley. The investment, made through the Economic Development Administration (EDA), will be matched by an equal contribution from the counties themselves. “The Hudson Valley isn't immune to the effects of bad trade deals or changes in the global economy, and we need a new vision for getting people back to work and growing our local economy,” said Rep. Maloney. “No one can do this on their own, and by partnering together we can be sure our team in the Hudson Valley has the tools they need to get this plan in action as soon as possible." “Hudson Valley Regional Council greatly appreciates the continuation of our EDA Planning Funding,” said Hudson Valley Regional Council Executive Director Patricia Pomeroy. “We are currently working on the annual update of our Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy and will soon begin the update of the entire document in 2018, (required every 5 years). This grant is matched by the seven County Governments that comprise the Regional Council – Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Sullivan, Ulster and Westchester. The CEDS is an important aspect in charting the economic present and future of the region based on actual data, trends, clusters and job retention and growth.” This EDA planning investment supports the development and implementation of a Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) for the region served by the Hudson Valley Regional Council, which comprises the counties of Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Sullivan, Ulster, and Westchester; and the cities of Yonkers, Mount Vernon, Newburgh, Kingston, Poughkeepsie, and Middletown. The CEDS process is designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has helped secure over $7 million in investments from the Economic Development Administration. Shortly after taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney announced a $3.4 million investment to the Culinary Institute of America to support the development of a new workforce development center. Then, in 2014, Rep. Maloney announced another major investment of $2.9 million to redevelop a former brownfield site into a new headquarters for Hudson Valley lighting.
07.11.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), who represents Stewart Air National Guard Base in Newburgh, issued the following statement after confirming that some of the service members killed in the Mississippi plane crash on Monday, July 10, 2017 were based out of Stewart ANG Base. The Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 452 (VMGR-452), which includes the plane and crew, is a United States Marine Corps KC-130T squadron based out of Stewart Air National Guard Base. “This loss is simply devastating. Over the years I have had the privilege of getting to know many of the brave men and women who serve in our armed forces, especially those at Stewart – they are truly American heroes. These folks risk their lives in service of our country and to lose them in such a way is tragic. My prayers are with the Navy Corpsman and the Marines who lost their lives, their loved ones and our entire community – we lost some of our best yesterday. Semper fi.”
07.10.2017	On June 28, USCG Suspended the Dangerous Anchorage Proposal, Effectively Killing it Newburgh, NY – On the waterfront in the City of Newburgh, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and local stakeholders announced the next steps regarding the U.S. Coast Guard anchorage proposal, which was suspended on June 28, 2017. Instead, the Coast Guard announced that it will conduct a “Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment” or PAWSA to determine next steps and inform future rulemakings. The PAWSA is still being planned, but will include working groups of stakeholders appointed by the Coast Guard. In response, Rep. Maloney demanded the Coast Guard establish certain standards for the creation of the upcoming PAWSA. “This has been a team effort from day one – thousands of people wrote in to tell the Coast Guard this idea stinks – and just about every elected official in this neck of the woods was on the team that helped kill it,” said Rep. Maloney. “We know the old proposal is pretty much dead, but as this new review is planned we have to make sure it's done right - local folks must have as much input as they did the first time around, we've got to insist on using the most up-to-date science, and the process must be transparent. Our river is a national treasure, you can be sure I’ll continue leading the fight to make sure it is preserved and protected for generations.” Rep. Maloney’s PAWSA Principles: Hudson Valley Voices Matter. The PAWSA workgroups must contain a diverse group of stakeholders with at least half of the members of each workgroup representing communities along the Hudson River, impacted businesses, and environmental groups. Previous PAWSAs have resulted in about 60 percent of the workgroup members representing industry and thus giving undue influence to those in favor of anchorages. Follow the Facts. Stakeholders participating in workgroups must be allowed to bring in outside credentialed experts to assist the workgroup in its efforts. Previous PAWSAs have restricted input into the process to the actual members of the workgroup, thus limiting information considered by the PAWSA. By enabling workgroup members to bring in outside experts and consultants, at their own expense, the PAWSA process will be more thorough and properly examine the facts. The River Gets a Say. Equal weight must be given to each of the workgroups considerations including environmental, economic, and safety impacts of the proposal. Previous PAWSAs have weighted input from workgroup members based on “expertise,” which often tilts the overall outcome towards industry and economic considerations. Let the Sunshine In. The PAWSA process and the workgroups activities must be transparent and open to the public, which includes livestreaming the workgroups meetings. PAWSA workgroup meetings are often not conducted in a fashion that is open to the public. Something as simple as webcasting the proceedings could mitigate this concern. “The Coast Guard’s decision to suspend its proposal to add new anchorage sites on the Hudson River was a big win for our region. The plan would’ve threatened our environment and put our businesses and families at risk,” said Assemblyman James Skoufis. “But our work is not over. Now, we must ensure that the Coast Guard’s Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment is beyond thorough and carefully takes our community’s concerns into account. I thank Congressman Maloney for his leadership on this issue and I look forward to diligently working with him and all stakeholders to make sure our voices are heard and our safety isn’t compromised.” “Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney has shared four thoughtful principles to help guide the US Coast Guard’s PAWSA process. The Hudson River Valley is unique, and we are fortunate to live and work in a region that celebrates its environment and municipal waterfronts as integral to its economy and our quality of life. We also have a rich tradition of individuals engaging with public decision-making processes and have found strength in our diverse voices, which, when considered, lead to high-quality decisions. These values must be respected and made part of the Coast Guard’s deliberations in the PAWSA process and beyond,” said Andy Bicking, Director of Public Policy, Scenic Hudson. In 1996, Congress directed the U.S. Coast Guard “to identify minimum user requirements for new Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) systems in consultation with local officials, waterways users and port authorities.” As a result, the USCG created the PAWSA process, which was established to open a dialogue with waterway users and stakeholders. The process requires the participation of professional waterway users with local expertise in navigation, waterway conditions, and port safety. In addition, stakeholders are included in the process to ensure that important environmental, public safety, and economic consequences are given appropriate attention as risk interventions are selected. Since the beginning, Rep. Maloney has fought to hold the Coast Guard accountable, ensure residents could make their voices heard on this issue, and ultimately stop this dangerous proposed rulemaking. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings. In August 2016, Reps. Maloney, Engel and Lowey, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period to December 6. In September 2016, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. In December, after asking Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to the proposal, Rep. Maloney submitted 404 comments from local residents to the U.S. Coast Guard. Last year, Rep. Maloney also introduced the Hudson River Protection Act, which would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, a nuclear power plant, a site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard proposal was looking at for potential anchorages. Rep. Maloney joined Rep. Engel to reintroduce this legislation in March 2016. In May 2017, Rep. Maloney successfully worked to include his “Anchorages Away Act” as part of the Coast Guard authorization bill, which passed in committee.
07.06.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined local leaders in front of one of the many abandoned properties in the City of Newburgh to announce legislation to help homeless veterans and renovate "zombie" or abandoned properties. The Housing Our Heroes Act would create a pilot program within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), which would provide federal investments to Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) to acquire and update blighted properties to provide housing for homeless veterans. “We’ve got all these zombie properties dragging down home values and housing criminal activities, and we’ve got veterans living on the streets or struggling to buy a home – it doesn’t take a genius to figure out that we can kill two birds with one stone here,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, the son of a Navy veteran. “This legislation would help us fulfill our promise to our veterans and help redevelop blighted areas of our communities.” “This really is a no-brainer – anything I can do to help make this happen I will do it – this legislation will change lives not only in this district – but across the country,” said Orange County Executive Steve Neuhaus. "Transforming zombie homes into housing for homeless veterans is an important initiative that we can all agree on.” “This is a great idea – it’s a hand-in-glove approach to the problem of veterans’ homelessness and abandoned properties,” said New York State Assemblyman Frank Skartados. “This legislation will be a tremendous asset to communities like the City of Newburgh.” “Representative Maloney is a longstanding champion for veterans – he doesn’t just talk the talk but walks the walk,” said Michele McKeon, COO of RECAP. “For so many veterans, homeownership is a dream that has been out of reach, and this bill will remove the blight from our communities while helping our veterans achieve that dream.” The Housing Our Heroes Act would create a three-year $25 million pilot program within the VA to provide grants to VSOs and other non-governmental organizations to acquire and update blighted properties for the purpose of housing homeless veterans. The program would help put previously homeless veterans on the path to homeownership by enabling them to start repaying the VSO after a year of occupancy. Additionally, the program would improve neighborhoods by restoring abandoned properties, increasing property values, and encouraging growth. Despite recent progress, nearly 40,000 veterans remain homeless across the country with nearly 1,300 of those residing in New York State. Since joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney has introduced and passed eight veterans bills into law. Many of these bills seek to aid service members who were injured during their service, including the Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act, the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act, and the Appropriate Care for Veterans Act. His office has also cut through red tape to return over $3 million in earned benefits to more than 900 Hudson Valley vets.
07.05.2017	Newburgh, NY – Weeks after announcing a $14 million federal investment in Orange County Airport, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced another federal investment of $1,633,044 to continue the runway rehabilitation project at Stewart International Airport. This investment is part six of an eight phase redevelopment effort to renovate both runways at Stewart. “This investment will help us build on the growing momentum we have at Stewart, and it may help us attract more carriers and flights in and out of Orange County,” said Rep. Maloney. “That’s good news for people who want to fly out of Stewart – but it’s also good news for our local economy and it’ll help us create some good-paying jobs and put people to work.” "The Port Authority thanks Rep. Maloney for his work on behalf of Stewart International Airport and job creation there at this exciting juncture in the airport’s air service development, with recent service announcements from Allegiant and Norwegian airlines,’’ said Port Authority Executive Director Pat Foye. “This runway work is critical to enabling SWF to serve growing numbers of flights and passengers." The investment for Stewart International Airport will cover 90% of the total project cost and be used to rehabilitate and repave approximately 11,817 feet of runway pavement on one runway and 6,004 feet on another runway. The FAA Airport Improvement program is funded by aviation fees, including aviation fuel tax and passenger ticket fees. Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has made infrastructure development and safety a top priority. In 2014, he announced an earlier round of investment totaling $1,859,650 in Stewart’s runway rehabilitation program. Last year, he announced another federal investment totaling $1,717,911. He has also secured over $30 million for the Orange County Airport, and nearly $2 million for the Dutchess County Airport.
06.28.2017	Newburgh, NY – After more than a year of tireless efforts to defeat a plan for additional anchorages, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Admiral Steven D. Poulin of the U.S. Coast Guard announced that they would “suspend future rulemaking decisions” regarding the designation of additional anchorage sites in the Hudson River, effectively killing the proposal. “I am glad the Coast Guard has come around to our way of thinking,” said Representative Maloney. “This is a victory that the Hudson Valley won together – from the ten thousand residents who submitted comments to the bipartisan coalition of elected officials across all levels of government who came together with one voice to protest this terrible idea. Our river is a national treasure that should be preserved and protected for generations – not turned into a parking lot for commercial oil ships.” Since the beginning, Rep. Maloney has fought to hold the Coast Guard accountable, ensure residents could make their voices heard on this issue, and ultimately stop this dangerous proposed rulemaking. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings before the proposal can advance, and sent a letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. In August, Reps. Maloney and Engel, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and Rep. Lowey, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period to December 6th. In September, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. On September 15th, Rep. Maloney asked Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to the proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston. In December, Rep. Maloney submitted 404 comments from local residents to the U.S. Coast Guard. Last year, Rep. Maloney introduced the Hudson River Protection Act, which would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, a nuclear power plant, a site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard proposal is looking at for potential anchorages. Rep. Maloney joined Rep. Engel to reintroduce this legislation
06.28.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $250,286 for the Fort Montgomery Fire District to secure new protective equipment for fire district personnel. The investment, secured through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program, will allow the fire district to replace aging “turnout gear” like boots or fire-retardant jackets and to acquire new air packs and bottles to bring the life-saving equipment into compliance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards. “Our guys are putting their lives on the line out there to protect families and small businesses in Fort Montgomery – we can’t have them going into these situations with equipment that’s not up to snuff,” said Representative Maloney. “This investment will keep our firefighters safe so they can continue to keep us safe.” “This grant is going to allow us to be NFPA compliant with all the rules and regulations and keep our guys safe during all of our operations,” said Fort Montgomery Fire District Assistant Chief Donald Smith. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the Department's United States Fire Administration. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be found at https://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program. Representative Maloney has a track record of getting things done for local fire departments. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Maloney has secured over $9 million for Hudson Valley fire departments. Over $1 million of this funding has been directed at modernizing equipment, including protective gear, at eight fire districts in the Hudson Valley. He has also secured millions to allow fire departments in Newburgh and Poughkeepsie to hire additional firefighters through AFG’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program.
06.23.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced a federal investment of $14,520,795 to construct a new runway and navigational aids at the Orange County Airport. This is the third and final phase of investment in the runway’s construction, which is funded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration. “The Orange County Airport is an economic driver and this investment ensures pilots can land safely using upgraded technology and brand-new runways, while creating good, local jobs,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s been great to help this project take shape from the design phase right on through to this last round of construction.” “This grant will vastly enhance the infrastructure at Orange County Airport and will provide pilots and aircraft a state-of-the-art, FAA-approved, safe runway environment,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “The grants being awarded to Orange County Airport confirms the County’s priority of maintaining a highly functional airport with safety as a top priority.” The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) grant for Orange County Airport will be used for the final phase of construction of Runway 3/21’s taxiway A and provide funds for new navigational aids (NAVAIDS) to help incoming aircraft get safely to the runway. In 2013, Rep. Maloney helped to secure funding for the design phase of this project, and announced a $2.9 million investment for the first phase of construction in 2014. Then, in 2015, Maloney announced an additional investment of over $5 million for environmental mitigation for the construction of the new runway. Last year, Maloney announced a second round investment of $6.8 million to create a runway safety zone and to relocate the runway away from the Wallkill River in order to protect it from flooding and major storms. The FAA Airport Improvement program is funded by aviation fees, including aviation fuel tax and passenger ticket fees. There are currently 150 aircraft based at Orange County Airport, as well as three aircraft maintenance service businesses, a flight school, and restaurant. The airport is located at 500 Dunn Road in Montgomery.
06.21.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced a package of legislation that would force Members of Congress, who represent states that seek waivers, to forgo their health plans on DC’s Health Insurance Marketplace and buy the plans with less coverage or higher costs that their constituents are forced to choose from. Rep. Maloney’s legislation is in response to House Republican’s American Health Care Act, also known as TrumpCare, which would provide states with the option of waiving essential health benefits (EHB), pre-existing conditions coverage, or creating an age-tax. “What’s good for the goose is good for the gander – Members of Congress who vote for a garbage health care bill shouldn’t get to keep their special access to Obamacare while they stick their constituents with more expensive plans that cover less,” said Rep. Maloney. “Don’t think your state should cover Essential Health Benefits like hospital stays or prescription drugs? Then your family shouldn’t get that coverage either. If you think high risk pools are so great, you can join one. Think older folks should be charged more for their care? You can pay those rates too.” Rep. Maloney’s Do Unto Others package includes three pieces of legislation: No Carve Out for Congress Act, would restrict Members who represent a state with an essential health benefits (EHB) waiver to the lowest actuarial value health insurance coverage available under the waiver in their state. Members would only be eligible to enroll in health insurance on their State individual market and would receive no federal government contribution with respect to their health benefits plan. Good for the Gander Act, would restrict Members who represent a state with a premium age band waiver to the highest age band premium for health insurance coverage available under the waiver in their state. Members would only be eligible to enroll in health insurance on their State individual market and would receive no federal government contribution with respect to their health benefits plan. High Risk Pool, No Reward Act, would restrict Members who represent a state with a waiver of the continuous coverage penalty if the state allows the use of health status underwriting (for pre-existing conditions) – these Members are only allowed to enroll in the individual market in their state and to the extent possible through a high-risk program in the same manner as their constituents who are eligible to enroll in such coverage. Members would only be eligible to enroll in health insurance on their State individual market, and would receive no federal government contribution with respect to their health benefits plan.
06.19.2017	Washington — In response to numerous reports of state-sponsored discrimination in Indonesia on the basis of religion, gender, and sexual orientation, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Co-Chair of the Congressional Equality Caucus, led 36 of his colleagues on a letter to the Indonesian Ambassador to the United States. In the letter, Rep. Maloney calls on the Ambassador to proactively attend to the human rights situation and warning of the possible diplomatic and economic consequences of continued rights abuses. “Indonesia is an important leader and regional ally in Southeast Asia – and they have a responsibility over there to set a good example of what a democracy should look like, but lately they haven’t been living up to that responsibility,” said Rep. Maloney. “Oppressing your own citizens because of their religion, their gender, or their sexual orientation undermines democratic values and erodes civil society and I won’t stand for it.” "The horrific violence targeting LGBTQ people in Indonesia is part of a troubling yet growing trend driven by hate and fear around the world, including in places like Chechnya, Bangladesh, and elsewhere," said David Stacy, Government Affairs Director at the Human Rights Campaign (HRC). "With an absence of action from the Trump administration on these human rights abuses, we are grateful for Rep. Maloney's leadership in calling for an end to this violence and putting Indonesia officials on notice that the eyes of the world are closely watching." “The alarming situation in Indonesia should be of concern to us all. It is not surprising to see an escalation of abuses against the LGBT population take place in a context of human rights deterioration more generally,” said Shawn Gaylord, Advocacy Council at Human Rights First. “We commend Congressman Maloney and all of those who joined him for showing that there is still leadership in the United States that will not back down when it comes to leadership on the human rights of LGBT people worldwide.” "These actions targeting LGBT and other minorities put at risk Indonesia's reputation for tolerance, and threaten the positive relations between our countries that so many Americans want to see grow,” said Mark Bromley, Council Chair, Council for Global Equality. “We hope Indonesian authorities will make every effort to consciously include LGBT Indonesians in the political, economic and social rights so important to all families." Rep. Maloney has a strong record of promoting human rights worldwide. In 2015, following reports that the Turkish government dispatched riot police to disband a pride parade, Rep. Maloney led a letter to the Turkish government expressing concern with the handling of the situation. Last year, Rep. Maloney led another letter to Saudi Arabia expressing support for the Saudi LGBTQ community and highlighting concerns for human rights in the Kingdom. Last month, Maloney led a video campaign to raise awareness of extreme human rights abuses in Chechnya to prevent an escalation of violence against gay men. The letter is supported by the Human Rights Campaign, Human Rights Watch, Human Rights First, and the Council for Global Equality. Thirty-six Members of Congress signed onto the letter with Rep. Maloney including Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), William R. Keating (D-MA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Brian Higgins, (D-NY) Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH) Julia Brownley (D-CA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), and Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI). The full letter is as follows: Dear Mr. Ambassador: We are writing in regards to recent reports of possible human rights abuses in Indonesia targeting lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer people (LGBTQ). These attacks are an unfortunate symptom of the growing radicalization in Indonesia that has targeted women, religious and ethnic minorities, and which could negatively impact diplomatic relations and foreign investments in your country, if left unchecked. We have recently seen reports of a public caning of two gay men in Aceh province on May 23rd. The men were photographed and humiliated by thousands of jeering spectators as they received their punishment. But worrisome incidents are occurring beyond Aceh as well. Other reports demonstrate a disturbing pattern of police targeting LGBTQ people and other minorities across the country. On May 24, West Java police chief Anton Charliyan said that he plans to establish a task force to persecute LGBTQ Indonesians, adding that LGBTQ people suffer from “a disease” and will “face the law and heavy social sanctions.” Disturbingly, Charliyan’s statement echoes the rhetoric of Banda Aceh Mayor Illiza Sa’aduddin, who announced in February 2016 that she would create a “special team” to make the public more aware of the “threat of LGBTQ” and to “train” LGBTQ people to “return to a normal life.” We were also disturbed by reports that on April 30, 2017, police raided a private gathering of gay men in Surabaya, arrested 14 men, and subjected them to HIV tests without their consent, and a report that on May 21st police raided the Atlantis Spa in Jakarta, arrested 141 men and charged 10 for holding an alleged sex party under 2008 Anti-Pornography law, a provision often used against LGBTQ persons. Officers allegedly paraded the suspects naked in front of the media, and interrogated them while they remained unclothed. These attacks fall into a problematic pattern of increasing intolerance for minorities across Indonesia, a trend demonstrated most recently by the sentencing of former Jakarta Governor Basuki “Ahok” Tjahaja Purnama, a Christian, to two years in prison for blasphemy. This new court ruling, combined with authorities’ behavior towards LGBTQ people, is sending a chilling message about the current state of pluralism, tolerance, and stability in Indonesia. While the United States respects the values and traditions of other nations, we cannot turn a blind eye to the persecution of minority communities, whether women, religious minorities, or LGBTQ people. Such attacks can metastasize and put an entire country’s stability, security, and foreign investments at risk. We would also note that economic studies have demonstrated that discriminatory practices and laws can severely impact a country’s economic health and foreign investment levels. A recent study by the Williams Institute at the University of California found that anti-LGBTQ discrimination may be lowering Indonesia’s gross domestic product by as much as $12 billion. We deeply value our nation’s ties with Indonesia, the world’s third largest democracy, a democratic leader in the Muslim world, and a close ally and trade partner. In the spirit of that friendship, we urge the Indonesian government to exercise its responsibility to investigate and put a stop to repressive and discriminatory actions against minorities. Indonesia, as much as any other country, should uphold the rule of law and affirmatively protect the civil and human rights of all its citizens, no matter their identities, sexual orientations, genders, religions, or religious views. Please know that we will continue monitoring the situation, and hope that Indonesia will proactively attend to this human rights situation. Thank you for your attention to this letter.
06.16.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after Governor Andrew Cuomo nominated openly gay Appellate Judge Paul G. Feinman to the NY State Court of Appeals. Rep. Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York and a Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “I want to thank Governor Cuomo for making history and nominating Judge Feinman to be the first openly gay judge on the state’s highest court. Courts should be representative of the people they serve – and because New York has its fair share of LGBTQ people – its courts should too. Judge Feinman is a great choice and a historic appointment, and I wish him the best of luck in his confirmation.”
06.15.2017	Washington – One day after a gunman opened fire at the Congressional Baseball practice, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released a video asking folks to treat each other with compassion and respect in the face of disagreements over policy or politics. He reiterated that Americans should remain passionate but never engage in violence. He also squashed the notion that bipartisanship is dead in Washington when he spoke about his relationships with Republicans and their families, and his record of working across the aisle to get things done for his constituents. A full transcript of his remarks are below: Watch the video here. “I just wanted to touch base with all of you in the wake of yesterday's violence and tragic events. You know sometimes I get some grief for being bipartisan and for working across the aisle, but it's because I believe it's so important that we work together to get things done, and nothing happens without talking to people you disagree with. “In this business, the rhetoric gets hot and the passions run high and that's normal, and it's even good, but that's very different than engaging in violence. And so it's just a reminder to all of us that we need to be careful about the way we speak and the way we interact with each other. “And it has to start with respect for other people, and I hope that I’ve demonstrated that in my time in Congress. I want you to know that I'm recommitting myself to doing that. I'm going to be attending the bipartisan Congressional Baseball Game tonight, which should be a terrific opportunity to come together, and I've worked from day one to work across the aisle. It's how we’ve passed 25 bills in the minority – it’s by working with Republicans on things that we can agree on like Lyme disease, or helping our veterans, or getting a better deal for our farmers, or infrastructure and making our trains safer. This is where progress exists – it’s in bipartisanship. “And while I'm going to be passionate about things that I care about - particularly things I’m against right now like this terrible health care bill, and these other things that the Trump Administration has started to do. I want you to know I'm going to keep working across the aisle, and people should know that on a personal level members of Congress do get along. I've got many friends across the aisle. We workout together at the gym, we see each other socially, and we know each other’s families. It’s better than you think hearing the stuff on TV or maybe looking at the e-mails that go around or some of the political rhetoric, but it doesn't absolve us of the responsibility to really come together, especially now. “And remember we are Americans first, so I hope you'll all help me with that and take that to heart, and I'll keep working down here to get things done. Thank you.”
06.14.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after a gunman opened fire at Republican Congressional Baseball practice this morning. “I’m praying for my colleague Steve Scalise, the two Capitol Police officers, and the staff member who were shot this morning. I am so grateful for our brave Capitol Police officers and first responders who were on the scene and acted quickly – they literally saved lives. “The Congressional Baseball game is a time-honored tradition in the spirit of charity and bipartisanship – we must honor that tradition. Today is a good reminder that while we can get caught up in labels and parties, what ultimately matters is that we are all people and we are all Americans.”
06.13.2017	Joined by Equality Caucus, HRC, Trevor Project and PFLAG Washington — One-year after the deadly shooting at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), New York's first openly gay member of Congress, announced the introduction of a bill to improve data collection on the sexual orientation and gender identity of victims of violent crimes. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) operates the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS), which collects a range of data on victims of violent crime. Rep. Maloney’s LGBT PRIDE (Provide a Requirement to Improve Date Collection Efforts) Act calls on CDC to improve the process, and authorizes $25 million to fund the effort. Although the overwhelming majority of victims of the Pulse shooting were LGBTQ, the federal government’s National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS) collects only a small amount of information on sexual orientation and gender identity. This means the lives lost in the Orlando attack were not recorded as anti-LGBT murders in any data collection. “Pulse wasn’t an isolated occurrence – anti-LGBTQ violence is way too common – it happens when a transwoman of color is gunned down in the street, it happens when a young gay person is bullied into depression or takes his own life,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “We have to get more information on where this violence is happening and we have to be more aggressive about doing something to stop it – and this bill is a necessary first step.” “No American should ever feel like they are treated less than equal. It’s on all of us to continue fighting until we make this a reality. The LGBT PRIDE Act will authorize $25 million to expand data collection on sexual orientation and gender identity through the CDC’s National Violent Death Reporting System. This data is critical for identifying the causes of violent crime, and developing new, strategic methods to stop it. I’m proud to join Congressman Maloney in introducing this important bill today,” said Rep. David Cicilline, Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. "The LGBTQ community, particularly transgender women of color, continue to face an epidemic of violence," said HRC Government Affairs Director David Stacy. "In order to help understand the full scope of this violence, it is critically important we ensure victims' sexual orientation and gender identity are included as part of the information gathered in the National Violence Death Reporting System. We are thankful for Rep. Maloney's leadership in working to improve this essential data collection." “This legislation will play a critical role helping us to better understand and help end LGBTQ youth suicide,” said Amit Paley, CEO and Executive Director of The Trevor Project. “Currently no one is able to answer the question of how many LGBTQ individuals die by suicide every year. This is a monumental gap in our knowledge of suicide and keeps us from most effectively targeting prevention and intervention efforts. The saying often goes ‘if you’re not counted then you don’t count’, and it’s time to finally acknowledge the importance of LGBTQ lives and get the data to help save those lives.” “GLSEN is proud to support the PRIDE Act again this Congress. Data collection is imperative to ensuring that policies are implemented effectively and that programs are funded adequately to have an impact on the communities they are meant to serve; however, too often LGBTQ people are left out of critical data collection measures and subsequently left behind,” said Nathan Smith, Director of Public Policy at GLSEN. “Improving the CDC’s data collection on sexual orientation and gender identity, and providing the funds necessary to get that done, is a hugely important step.” “To not include sexual orientation and gender identity in CDC reporting on violent death victims is to erase the high incidence of fatal violence that LGBTQ people experience,” said Elizabeth Raymond Kohm, Interim Executive Director, PFLAG National. “PFLAG families everywhere thank Congressman Maloney for his leadership in insisting that LGBTQ people be visible and counted in our country.” The LGBT PRIDE Act would require the CDC to improve its data collection on sexual orientation and gender identity and authorize $25 million to fund the effort. The system currently has the ability to collect data on sexual orientation and gender identity, but various barriers exist to comprehensive collection. The NVDRS aggregates data from a variety of local sources including death certificates, coroner/medical examiner reports, police reports, and crime labs. This data is used to inform policy and regulatory decisions aimed at responding to public health crises such as suicide and homicide at the local, federal, and state level. All data collection is performed on a voluntary basis, and the results are only released in aggregate to protect the privacy of decedents. The LGBT PRIDE Act has been endorsed by the Human Rights Campaign, the Trevor Project, PFLAG, and the Gay and Lesbian Straight Education Network (GLSEN). Fellow LGBT Equality Caucus co-chairs Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mark Takano (D-CA), and David Cicilline (D-RI) are original cosponsors. Additional original cosponsors include Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Andre Carson (D-IN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Julia Brownley (D-CA), William Keating (D-MA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Scott Peters (D-CA), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Al Green (D-TX) and Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.12.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), New York's first openly gay member of Congress, released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the mass-murder at Pulse nightclub. “The cold-blooded murder of dozens of innocent LGBTQ Americans at Pulse was horrifying - and was especially painful because it happened during Pride Month, which is supposed to be a time when we feel safe to celebrate who we are and who we love. Today, my heart is in Orlando with the families and friends who lost loved ones. But tomorrow the work for full equality will continue. Only by standing together will we win the battle against hate-fueled violence and discrimination." Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.06.2017	Newburgh, NY — Following reports that the allium leafminer, an invasive species of insect, has been found in Orange County, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research (FFAR) to approve a grant request submitted by Cornell University to fund research that will combat the pest in the Hudson Valley. The FFAR Rapid Outcomes from Agricultural Research (ROAR) program provides funding to allow organizations to quickly combat emerging risks to the nation’s food supply. "Farmers like Rick Minkus work their tails off to grow the food we eat, and they could be in big trouble if we don’t figure out how to stop these things – and quick,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “I got a personal assurance from Agriculture Secretary Perdue, just a couple weeks ago, that the Department is going to work with us on this – help can’t come soon enough.” "Across the board, Rep. Maloney has been a big supporter of us here in Orange County,” said Orange County Executive Steve Neuhaus. “Agriculture is our major source of economic development, and this bug could be devastating for us." "This has the potential to be a disaster for our farmers in the black dirt area,” said Orange County Legislator James O’Donnell. “I want to thank Rep. Maloney for coming out to help with this – it can cost $15 an acre to fight this which hurts our profits - so whatever help we can get will help us keep agriculture in the forefront for the Orange County economy." "I just want to thank the Congressman for coming down and staying on top of this issue and thank him for the awareness and the help he can give to us, including research dollars,” said Orange County Legislator Paul Ruszkiewicz. "Warwick is a farming area, and Rep. Maloney from the start has been working to help out our farmers,” said Warwick Town Supervisor Mike Sweeton. “I'm confident that this new challenge will be overcome with Rep. Maloney's support and effort." "I want to thank Congressman Maloney and his staff for putting this effort together,” said Orange County Farm Bureau President John Lupinski. “This leafminer could be a serious problem for onions, garlic, and leeks, so we need to get going on this." “Research is desperately needed to identify fast-acting tactics that prevent damage by allium leafminer,” said Dr. Brian Nault from the Cornell University Department of Entomology. “Collaborative research efforts are currently underway among entomologists and cooperative extension specialists who work with vegetable crops at Cornell University and Penn State University. However, more research funding is needed to enable this team to generate information that will be required to solve this very serious problem.” The allium leafminer is an invasive species of insect which destroys the foliage and stems of onions, leeks, garlic, chives, shallots, and green onions. The first pests were discovered in Orange County in mid-April. Local agriculture experts warn that the insect could inflict damage on the Orange County onion crop, but have limited information on the extent of the potential damage or how to stop it. Orange County produces half of New York State’s onion crop. The industry in Orange County alone generates $25 million in annual sales and employs hundreds of residents. The critical investment requested by Cornell University would leverage federal and state dollars and enable the development of techniques for destroying the pests. Rep. Maloney wrote a letter in support of the grant application, which can be found here and is copied below. Dr. Tim Kurt: I write in support of Cornell University’s application for grant funding through the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research’s Rapid Outcomes for Agricultural Research Program to combat the spread of the allium leafminer in the United States. Long a pest in Europe, Allium leafminer larvae will feed on leaves and developing bulbs, causing significant damage to the crop and extensive monetary losses. The risk they pose to American farmers is real. In my district alone, an allium leafminer infestation would hurt farms that bring in hundreds of millions of dollars to the local economy. Moreover, there would be myriad impacts on the food supply chain. Investing in effective management techniques is absolutely critical to stopping this problem before it spreads. The ROAR program is the ideal vehicle to do just that. That’s why I ask you to invest in Cornell University’s recent grant application. Their effort will ensure we have experts in impacted states, particularly New York and Pennsylvania, working to protect American agriculture. In May of 2017, I had the chance to speak with United States Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue about this exact problem. I greatly appreciate that he expressed a commitment to work with me to solve it. Investing in this vital research immediately will help contain this problem before it can spread, benefitting not only American farmers, but the American people, in the process. Thank you for your attention to this issue. Please let me know if there’s any additional information I can provide.
06.01.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump officially withdrew the United States from the 2015 Paris Climate agreement. “Pulling out of this agreement is lazy and it’s shortsighted and it sacrifices our role as a world leader. The rest of the world is laughing at us, because they’re going to create the cutting edge technology that will be worth billions and create millions of new jobs. “Climate change is a big problem – and it’s going to take a big idea to solve it. America has always been a leader in coming up with these big ideas – we went to the moon, we invented flight, we built the interstate system and invented mass production. We can’t give up on solving this problem because it’s a hard one. “And to the people who say the agreement would cost American jobs – I don’t buy it. Anyone who believes that should talk to farmers in the Hudson Valley who've been wiped out from ever-more frequent flooding. I hope the President will reconsider the decision to go back on our promise, and think about what we’re leaving our kids to deal with.”
06.01.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in honor of LGBTQ Pride Month. “Randy and I want to wish everyone in the LGBTQ community a happy Pride! “Pride Month is a time to celebrate who we are and what we’ve achieved in the face of hatred and discrimination. It’s also a time to commit to protecting the progress we’ve made towards achieving real equality at all levels of government. “We also have to recognize that LGBTQ human rights abuses internationally are a continuing problem. Horrifying reports from Chechnya to Indonesia are a clear indication that there is still work to be done to protect our community internationally. “I hope everyone will join me in celebrating Pride Month and working together to finish the work that’s left to be done.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.01.2017	Newburgh, NY — After the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency today released for public comment its second 5-year review of the Hudson River PCB-contaminated cleanup, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Scenic Hudson and other local stakeholders in opposition to the five-year review’s conclusion that additional cleanup is unnecessary. Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has worked closely with the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation and local stakeholders to outline concerns about the effectiveness of the current cleanup strategy to remediate PCBs in the Hudson River. “The risk posed by PCBs remaining in the Hudson River is very real and further cleanup is necessary – the proof is in the science. I’m disappointed but not surprised that Administrator Pruitt isn’t taking seriously our concerns or the facts about the effectiveness of the current cleanup strategy,” said Rep. Maloney. “We live on the Hudson River – it’s our home and an economic engine for our local communities – and all we are asking for is a cleanup strategy that fixes generations of abuse and the toxic legacy of PCB contamination. I’m not going to take no for an answer – working with the DEC and folks like Scenic Hudson we are going to keep fighting on this.” “The EPA has squandered an excellent opportunity to achieve Administrator Scott Pruitt’s stated goal to complete a successful cleanup of the Hudson River, one that would achieve environmental and economic restoration of the region. By ignoring solid scientific evidence from New York State and its sister agencies and concluding that the Hudson River Superfund project will be protective, EPA is washing its hands of responsibility for properly completing cleanup of the largest Superfund site in the country and betraying its own mission to protect public health and the environment. Fortunately, Governor Andrew Cuomo and Environmental Commissioner Basil Seggos have stated they will take the steps necessary to a achieve a comprehensive cleanup; Scenic Hudson is committed to working with them to achieve this vital goal,” said Scenic Hudson President Ned Sullivan. “I also want to thank Senator Gillibrand, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, and Representative Nita Lowey for their leadership, and other members of the Congressional delegation, county, state and local officials who have publicly called for a comprehensive cleanup." In August 2016, Rep. Maloney joined NYS DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos, Scenic Hudson, and Riverkeeper in Albany to encourage the EPA to ensure a remedy that results in the long-term cleanup of the Hudson River. This announcement came after a meeting Rep. Maloney helped to convene in July between Scenic Hudson and the DEC Commissioner Seggos. At that meeting, attendees discussed ways to work together in reviewing the effectiveness of the remedy and calling on the EPA to take action. In addition, Rep. Maloney helped facilitate a meeting between Scenic Hudson and the EPA in December 2015 that resulted in the EPA’s decision to move up the next 5-year review to 2016 from 2017. After joining the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) in Albany, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Assemblyman Frank Skartados, Mayor Rob Rolison, and local stakeholders in Poughkeepsie to outline concerns about the effectiveness of the current cleanup strategy to remediate PCBs in the Hudson River. At this press conference Ned Sullivan, President of Scenic Hudson, said that “Congressman Maloney's leadership has already dramatically changed the course of history of the Hudson.” In May 2017, Rep. Maloney joined Senator Gillibrand and Reps. Tonko, Lowey and Engel to send a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling on Administrator Scott Pruitt to incorporate data provided to the EPA as part of its Second Five-Year Review showing the continued presence of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contaminants in the Hudson River. The members cited the Second Five-Year Review as an opportunity to provide for additional cleanup of the Hudson River.
05.26.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day, which is observed on Monday, May 29th. “On Memorial Day, we honor the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who gave their lives to protect our country. Our nation owes a debt of gratitude to the brave Americans who served in defense of our freedom, our democracy, and our way of life. To those who made the ultimate sacrifice and to their families – thank you.”
05.26.2017	Chester, NY —In honor of Memorial Day, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) held a flag presentation ceremony in Chester, NY for a 100 year-old World War II veteran to recognize his service and celebrate his 100th birthday. The veteran’s family worked with Rep. Maloney’s office to organize the event, which was a surprise. Rep. Maloney presented Edward Otterstedt, a World War II veteran, with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol on his 100th birthday. Born and raised in Chester, NY, Mr. Otterstedt volunteered for the United States Army in 1943. He served in the Army until he was injured as a result of an artillery blast, which left him with a 100-percent service connected disability. After returning home, Mr. Otterstedt served as a volunteer firefighter in the Chester Fire Company. “This man is an American hero – and I couldn’t be prouder to celebrate his 100th birthday with him and his family. Not only did he volunteer to serve his country in World War II, but he came home and served his community as a member of the Chester volunteer fire department. My dad served in the Navy and he too came home with a service connected disability – I know all too well the courage it takes and the sacrifice these men made to keep our country safe. I want to thank Mr. Otterstedt and his family for their service and for letting me join them today – happy birthday!” said Rep. Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “Mr. Otterstedt answered the call to serve his country and deserves this recognition in honor of his service and his 100th birthday. As a Navy Officer, I was honored to be part of today’s ceremony, and to have a chance to speak with Mr. Otterstedt. We all owe a debt of gratitude to brave men such as him,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “Ed Otterstedt is cut from the cloth of the greatest generation. The recognition he received today is a credit to his service to his country in combat during World War II and his service to his community in the decades to follow. I want thank Congressman Maloney for recognizing one of our local heroes as we begin to celebrate Memorial Day weekend,” said Senator Bill Larkin. Biography of Mr. Edward Otterstedt Mr. Edward Otterstedt was born and raised in Chester on April 5th, 1917. In 1943, Mr. Otterstedt volunteered for the U.S. Army along with two of his childhood friends – Charlie Stoll and Wendy Conklin. After completing basic training at Fort Riley in Kansas, Mr. Otterstedt served in Company B, 32nd Battalion, 1st Replacement Depot. He served in the Military Police and was in the European- African- and Middle Eastern Theaters of Operation. After receiving an injury related to an artillery blast, he was honorably discharged in 1944. Following World War II, Mr. Otterstedt served as a member of the Chester Fire Company as well as a Village Board Trustee. He also was a member of the Chester Historical Society and of the Chester Kiwanis. Edward Otterstedt survives his wife Evelyn, who he was married to for 74 years and passed away in 2014. His children, who both reside in Chester, are Sr. Martha Otterstedt, a Presentation Sister from New Windsor, and his son James, along with his life partner Alison Schmitz. Although he was seriously injured during his service in World War II, Mr. Otterstedt has not yet received a Purple Heart Medal. Rep. Maloney’s office became aware of Mr. Otterstedt’s situation after a recent telephone town hall. Once the office was alerted to the situation, veterans advocates initiated the process to secure the medal on his behalf.
05.24.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released an updated report detailing the cost, savings and coverage estimates for the House-passed American Health Care Act, also known as TrumpCare. “It turns out that this bill is worse for most Americans than the first version, and I wish I could say I’m surprised. Folks with pre-existing conditions will now take a huge hit, health care will be more expensive for middle class families, and 23 million people will still lose their health care. Even if premiums don’t go up, out of pocket costs will, since insurance will cover less - all so we can give the rich almost a trillion dollars in handouts. I could go on and on – this thing is just a Trojan horse full of tax cuts for the super wealthy and lousy health care for the rest of us.”
05.24.2017	Washington – Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), a member of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, hosted Kayla Smith, a foster youth alumnus participating in the 6th Annual Foster Youth Shadow Day. Throughout the day, Kayla had the opportunity to shadow Rep. Maloney during his work day on Capitol Hill and share her experience in foster care while informing Representative Maloney on child welfare policy. “I’m the dad to three adopted kids – so I know how important our foster care system and adoption systems can be to giving each and every kid a loving home. After having spent the day with Kayla – who is a smart and driven young woman – there is no doubt in my mind she has a bright future ahead of her,” said Rep. Maloney. “It was my pleasure to show her around Congress – especially when she told me she might want to run for office some day!” Today, Kayla joined more than 100 other foster youth alumni from across the country who traveled to Washington to shadow members of Congress to get a behind-the-scenes look at the House of Representatives and to share their experiences in the child welfare system as a way to influence policy around foster care. Rep. Maloney also streamed a Facebook Live interview with Kayla about her experiences in foster care, and her time on the Hill. Watch the interview here.
05.24.2017	Bill Would Halt Dangerous Barge Proposal Until Coast Guard Studies Effects on River, Local Communities Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that federal legislation he wrote to halt the United States Coast Guard’s Proposed Rulemaking to expand mooring infrastructure on the Hudson River between Kingston and Yonkers was included as part of the Coast Guard Authorization Act, which passed today in committee. Rep. Maloney’s Anchorages Away Act, would require the Coast Guard, within 180 days of passage, to submit a report to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the impacts of these proposed anchorages on existing superfund sites and habitats of endangered species and the Coast Guard’s response to these concerns. In addition, the Coast Guard is prohibited from establishing any anchorages on the Hudson River between Yonkers and Kingston until at least 180 days after the submission of this report. Today, during a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee mark-up of the Coast Guard Authorization Act, Rep. Maloney spoke in favor of his legislation and encouraged the Coast Guard to end the dangerous proposed rulemaking. You can watch Rep. Maloney’s remarks here. “The Coast Guard’s proposal to install new anchorage sites on the Hudson River is disaster – it’s a terrible idea and I’ll do whatever I can to stop it,” said Rep. Maloney. “Getting my provision into this bill will make sure we slow this thing down and find out the effects this dangerous proposal will have on our river and our communities. We are going to kill this proposal once and for all – and today was a step in the right direction.” Since the beginning, Rep. Maloney has fought to hold the Coast Guard accountable, ensure residents could make their voices heard on this issue, and ultimately stop this dangerous proposed rulemaking. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings before the proposal can advance, and sent a letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. In August, Reps. Maloney and Engel, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and Rep. Lowey, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period to December 6th. In September, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. On September 15th, Rep. Maloney asked Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to the proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston. In December, Rep. Maloney submitted 404 comments from local residents to the U.S. Coast Guard. Last year, Rep. Maloney introduced the Hudson River Protection Act, which would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, a nuclear power plant, a site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard proposal is looking at for potential anchorages. Rep. Maloney joined Rep. Engel to reintroduce this legislation in March, 2016.
05.24.2017	Congressional Representatives Call for EPA to Recommend Additional Cleanup of the Hudson River Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee and U.S. Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney, Paul Tonko, Nita Lowey, and Eliot Engel today wrote to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling on Administrator Scott Pruitt to incorporate data provided to the EPA as part of its Second Five-Year Review showing the continued presence of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contaminants in the Hudson River. The members cited the Second Five-Year Review is an opportunity to provide for additional cleanup of the Hudson River. “When EPA announced the Hudson River cleanup 15 years ago, it was a promise to New Yorkers that the long-damaged river would finally be on the path to a rapid recovery,” the members wrote in their joint letter to the EPA Administrator. “However, after the cleanup plan was established, EPA discovered that at least 2-3 times more PCB contamination existed in Hudson River sediments than had been assumed; yet EPA did not modify the scope of the cleanup. As a result, the Hudson River remains contaminated at levels far beyond the cleanup targets EPA established. Economic development on the Upper Hudson River has long been stifled by the dark cloud of toxic pollution; communities cannot wait decades longer for a clean and usable river.” Earlier this year, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation released a report, “Recommendations to EPA for the “Five Year Review Report” for Hudson River PCBs Site” to address the current conditions of the Hudson River and provide recommendations to the EPA moving forward with the Second Five-Year Review. DEC recommendations to the EPA include: 1.Completing a detailed evaluation of the action plan, in addition to increasing the sampling of sediment and fish tissue to the scale and frequency necessary to optimize the remedy through further remedial work as necessary. 2.Expanding the investigation of the site to include performance of a Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study for the portion of the site between the Federal Dam at Troy and the Battery in New York City. 3.Evaluating remedial alternatives to address the currently uncontrolled unacceptable risks to human health and the environment. The full text of the members’ joint letter to the Environmental Protection Agency is included here and below: Dear Administrator Pruitt: We are writing to request that you ensure the ongoing Second Five Year Review of the Hudson River Superfund Site incorporate data collected and shared with EPA Region 2 that clearly shows the Hudson River remedy is not protective of human health and the environment. The Five Year Review presents an opportunity to realize goals that you have articulated, including the importance of cleaning up the Hudson River pollution, ensuring the Superfund program succeeds in achieving both environmental outcomes and creating jobs. We ask for your help to securing additional clean-up in the Upper Hudson River. When EPA announced the Hudson River cleanup 15 years ago, it was a promise to New Yorkers that the long-damaged river would finally be on the path to a rapid recovery. However, after the cleanup plan was established, EPA discovered that at least 2-3 times more PCB contamination existed in Hudson River sediments than had been assumed; yet EPA did not modify the scope of the cleanup. As a result, the Hudson River remains contaminated at levels far beyond the cleanup targets EPA established. Economic development on the Upper Hudson River has long been stifled by the dark cloud of toxic pollution; communities cannot wait decades longer for a clean and usable river. Concerns regarding the efficacy of the EPA approved remedy resulted in a separate analysis of PCB levels in the Hudson River and the New York State Department of Conservation (DEC) to conclude more work needs to be done. Long-term “natural attenuation” of PCBs is not a solution to this problem. The PCBs in the Upper Hudson River are continuing to be transported down-river as far as New York harbor and beyond; in fact, scientists studying the New York/New Jersey Harbor have called the legacy of PCB contamination an “economic ball and chain.” PCB levels in fish in the lower Hudson River are not declining as expected, pointing to the need for investigation of downriver contamination and appropriate remedial action. New Yorkers must not be left holding the bag for contamination that will render the Hudson River a Superfund site for generations to come. New York State has a long and proud history of conservation in conjunction with economic development, and the Hudson River is a national symbol as an American Heritage River. As New Yorkers who live, work and play along the Hudson River, we know that additional cleanup is needed to improve our economy, and health, and quality of life. Finally, we emphasize that a credible Five Year Review is crucial to ensure the integrity of the federal Superfund program, given that the Hudson is one of the largest and most visible sites in the country. We look forward to working with you to achieve this. Sincerely, Kirsten Gillibrand United States Senator Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress Paul Tonko Member of Congress Nita Lowey Member of Congress Eliot Engel Member of Congress
05.23.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his office is taking part in the Wounded Warrior Fellow Program, which hires a veteran with service-connected disabilities for two years. Veterans who served on active duty after Sept. 11, 2001, and have at least a 30 percent service-connected disability rating from the Veterans Administration are eligible. “Veterans understand each other’s needs and experiences better than anyone else, and our new Wounded Warrior fellow will have an essential role working on behalf of Hudson Valley veterans who need help,” said Rep. Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “It’ll be an honor to welcome another veteran to our team to support the folks who served and sacrificed to keep us safe.” Rep. Maloney currently employs two combat veterans, including a full-time veterans advocate who is charged with serving as a central point-of-contact for veterans and military families who need assistance with receiving their earned benefits. Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured over $3 million for local veterans. In 2013, Rep. Maloney welcomed another local veteran into his office through the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program. Congress established the Wounded Warrior Fellowship in 2008 to allow injured and disabled veterans to gain work experience and help expand their opportunities as they transition to full-time civilian employment. The Congressional Office of the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) manages the fellowship program. The program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and have a minimum 30% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs. Interested veterans should submit a resume, copy of the last DD214 issued, and letter from the VA indicating a 30 percent or greater rating, which is not necessary if medically retired, to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov.
05.19.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced today that he has named Joseph Donat as his new District Director for his Newburgh office. Joseph Donat was previously Deputy District Director and has served as a trusted member of the staff since 2013. This follows the upcoming departure of Mike Limperopulos, who has served as Rep. Maloney’s District Director since 2015. “Mike has been an essential member of our team for years and has deep roots in our community – I’m very sad to see him go. Under his leadership, our office has helped thousands of folks cut through the Washington bureaucracy to return millions of taxpayer dollars to Hudson Valley veterans, families and small businesses. While we will miss his dedication, we’re glad that he’ll continue his work for the people of the Hudson Valley. On behalf of our entire team I want to wish him, his wife Katie and their adorable children the very best,” said Rep. Maloney. Joseph Donat replaces Mike Limperopulos, who is departing to work for Cornerstone Family Healthcare. Limperopulos previously worked for the Greater Hudson Valley Family Health Center before working for Rep. Maloney. “As an integral member of our staff since 2013, Joe has shown the commitment and knowledge necessary to lead our Newburgh office. As Director of Grants, Joe has helped almost every town and city in our district receive federal investments for everything from disaster relief to housing for homeless veterans and funding to repave I-684 in Westchester. We’re lucky to have Joe on our team and I am confident that he will provide the leadership necessary to run a top-notch constituent services operation,” said Rep. Maloney.
05.18.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that Hudson River Housing will receive a federal investment of $286,333 to support efforts to develop and preserve affordable housing, revitalize and sustain neighborhoods, and create jobs. The investment is being made through NeighborWorks America, a public nonprofit established by Congress in 1978. “Hudson River Housing gives families and seniors in need a hand up and a second chance,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m thrilled we were able to secure this critical investment – it literally puts a roof over folks heads.” “Hudson River Housing is thrilled to once again be awarded funds from NeighborWorks America to support critical housing and community development programs,” said Christa Hines, Executive Director of Hudson River Housing. “NeighborWorks America funding allows us to provide core programming while also remaining responsive to the evolving needs of our community.” Since taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly a million dollars in federal investments for Hudson River Housing. In 2014, he announced an investment of over $500,000 to combat homelessness in the veterans community. Last year, he secured an additional $200,000 to allow the organization to staff their shelter 24 hours a day. NeighborWorks America is a public nonprofit organization, established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Public Law 95-557). It supports and enhances a network of nearly 250 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations who bring together residents, private-sector business leaders, and representatives of local government to create communities of opportunity.
05.17.2017	Washington – Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and John Faso (NY-19) announced bipartisan legislation to upgrade emergency medical supplies for children on airplanes. Currently, airplanes are not required to carry child-sized doses of emergency medicine onboard passenger aircrafts. The Airplane Kids in Transit Safety (KiTS) Act would address this gap in safety rules. “As a dad, my biggest nightmare is something bad happening to my kids – that means worrying about everything from life-threatening medical conditions to mild allergic reactions. Every family deserves to have the peace of mind that comes with knowing their airplane is properly equipped for an emergency situation,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s unacceptable that airplanes today don’t have emergency medicine for kids, so our bipartisan bill will fix the problem by making the FAA enforce emergency medical requirements for children. “This is common-sense legislation everyone can support. Airlines should equip their fleets with live-saving medical supplies that meet the specific needs of children. I’m pleased to see strong third-party support for this positive change. An airline should never be unprepared or ill-equipped, especially at 30,000 feet in the air,” said Rep. Faso. “When a parent boards a commercial flight with a child, the last thing on their mind should be whether their child will be safe in the event of an in-flight medical emergency. Yet, right now, medical kits found on airplanes are not equipped to treat children during potentially fatal emergencies. The Airplane KITS Act is a needed step forward to fix that, by requiring the Federal Aviation Administration to update emergency medical kits onboard airplanes to include safe, effective medications and medical equipment designed to meet children’s unique needs. The American Academy of Pediatrics applauds Senators Brian Schatz and Jerry Moran and Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney and John Faso for their leadership to advance this critical legislation that will make air travel safer for children,” said American Academy of Pediatrics President Fernando Stein, MD, FAAP. With more Americans travelling by air than ever before, adult travelers can generally feel safe knowing that, in the case of a medical emergency, a well-trained flight crew will have the medical equipment necessary to treat them. But shockingly, the Emergency Medical Kits (EMKs) required on commercial flights are woefully inadequate for treating the most vulnerable passengers: children. Given the vulnerability of infants, children and adolescents during medical emergencies, it is imperative that the FAA update their outdated regulations on the contents of EMKs. The Airplane KiTS Act would specifically require the FAA, within 1 year of enactment, to initiate a rulemaking to update the requirements for EMKs to ensure that they contain appropriate medication and equipment to meet the emergency needs of children.
05.17.2017	LGBTQ-rights Organizations Believe International Attention will Prevent Escalation Washington – Following a successful video campaign surrounding transgender rights on the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHOT) in 2016, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has reprised the effort to call attention to the dire human rights situation in the Chechen Republic, a member of the Russian Federation. Over the past two months, LGBTQ-rights organizations worldwide have been concerned about reports that gay men have been imprisoned – and even tortured – just for being gay. “As a gay guy, I feel a special obligation to speak out about the human rights crisis in Chechnya, and I hope everyone who is concerned about LGBTQ rights will join me on this campaign,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, a Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “Bringing awareness and international attention to this issue has prevented further abductions of innocent Chechens, and could prevent an escalation of the violence." Twenty two of Members of Congress joined Rep. Maloney in the video, including Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), fellow Equality Caucus Co-Chairs Jared Polis (D-CO) and David Cicilline (D-RI), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), and Seth Moulton (D-MA). In addition to the compilation video, Rep. Maloney and the LGBT Equality Caucus encouraged Members to post on social media with the hashtag #EyesOnChechnya to raise awareness of the situation. Other Members of Congress also posted their individual videos and graphics during a coordinated tweetstorm. Established in 2004, IDAHOT is an internationally-recognized holiday which seeks to promote awareness of the plight of LGBT people throughout the world. In 2016, Rep. Maloney led a similar effort alongside 24 of his colleagues to show support for the transgender community, which was reeling from the passage of HB 2, “the bathroom bill” in North Carolina. Rep. Maloney also signed-on to two letters encouraging Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley to raise this issue with Russian diplomats, and the United Nations, respectively. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
05.16.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after reports that President Donald Trump shared highly classified intelligence with Russian diplomats. “I held a ‘code word’ national security clearance when I worked for President Clinton in the White House – handling this type of highly classified material is extremely serious. American lives are at stake. “President Trump’s actions are negligent bordering on reckless – we can and must expect more from our Commander in Chief.”
05.12.2017	Newburgh, NY — On Saturday, May 13th at 1:30PM, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will continue his Speak with Sean series by hosting a town hall to respond to thousands of calls, emails, and social media comments on the American Health Care Act, also known as TrumpCare. “I work for the people of the Hudson Valley and it’s my job to show up and answer questions on important legislation, especially when it’s as dangerous as TrumpCare,” said Rep. Maloney. “If you have questions about this bill, or you need help cutting through red tape, I hope you’ll join me this weekend in Cornwall.” At “Speak with Sean” events, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with federal agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. Rep. Maloney’s office has handled over 4,100 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return nearly $7 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, May 13th from 1:30-3:00 WHERE: Cornwall Middle School Auditorium at 122 Main Street, Cornwall NY 12518 In addition to posting “Speak with Sean” information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information has been made public on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email and many constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event being held in their neighborhood.
05.10.2017	Newburgh, NY – Following the conclusion of this year’s Congressional Art Competition, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney hosted a reception for participants and their families to celebrate achievement among young artists in the Hudson Valley and crown a grand prize winner. Alana Green of Mahopac won this year’s competition with her painting “Angel. “I want to congratulate Alana and all the other students for their submissions and I look forward to showing off her work and celebrating the level of talent we have right here in the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Maloney. “It takes a lot of courage to put yourself out there like these kids did – and I’m proud of each one of them for submitting their work.” In March, Rep. Maloney invited high school students to submit their original works of art for the competition. This year, 25 students submitted pieces. The work, “Angel,” submitted by Alana Green will be displayed for a year on the grounds of the Capitol Complex in Washington, D.C. All of the other works of art will be displayed in Representative Maloney’s Newburgh office, and will remain in the Congressional Art Competition 2017 album on his Facebook page. Grand Prize Winner “Angel” by Alana Green Facebook Fan Favorite “Self-Portrait” by Miriam Rice Runner-up “Reflections” by Melissa Eisenning Since 1982, hundreds of thousands of students from across the country have participated in the competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which encourages Members of Congress to recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. The grand prize winning artist will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception. More information on the competition, including the invitation and original press release, can be found here.
05.09.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump fired James Comey, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “For the second time in U.S. history an American president has fired the Director of the FBI. It's a Tuesday night massacre. This raises as many questions as it answers and the public deserves a real explanation from the President. "I only have two words - independent investigation."
05.08.2017	Newburgh, NY – Following last week’s contentious and partisan House vote on TrumpCare, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined local residents who would be devastated by the American Health Care Act and called on the Senate to reject the bill. “This is not some vague political issue. This hits close to home for thousands in the Hudson Valley, and the folks that joined me today will lose health care – or worse – if this heartless bill is signed into law,” said Representative Maloney. “The Senate should absolutely scrap this bill and start over by trying to improve the ACA and focusing on popular, bipartisan priorities.” “Thursday I was glued to the television, watching this health care bill go to the floor – was I angry? Yes. Was I terrified? Hell yes,” said Theresa Bauer from New Windsor, who was born with deformities in the bones in legs and lost her home because of high health care costs. “I don’t know what’s going to happen to me, and I feel like I’m being punished for how I was born. This is a new kind of discrimination against people with preexisting conditions and disabilities.” “This bill threatens my access to getting a drug I need by pricing me out of the market,” said Frank Petrucci from Warwick, who has a preexisting condition called CIDP. “If I can’t get to the doctor, I would start by not being able to stand up, pick up a fork, or tie my shoes – and eventually die. That’s very scary. Please don’t put me in a pool and force me to not have access to health care.” “President Donald Trump said he would not cut Medicaid, but he did not keep that promise – the current health care bill’s planned Medicaid cuts are sweeping and drastic,” said Andrea McKenna whose daughter Macy was born with autism. “I’m seriously concerned about this bill and what it means to my daughter, to her future, and to my family.” On Thursday May 4th, the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act, with bipartisan opposition, by a vote of 217-213. The bill would cause 24 million people to lose health care, defund Planned Parenthood, cut off health care for millions of veterans, takes nearly $1 trillion from Medicare and Medicaid, and sticks older Americans with skyrocketing insurance bills. It would also allow insurance companies to kick people with pre-existing conditions off their plans including, but not limited to veterans, cancer patients, children with disabilities, pregnant mothers and victims of sexual assault. Maloney condemned passage of the bill.
05.04.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act by a vote of 217-213. “This plan is so bad I’ve spent weeks trying to figure out why anyone would support it. It causes 24 million people to lose health care, defunds Planned Parenthood, cuts off health care for millions of veterans, takes nearly $1 trillion from Medicare and Medicaid, and sticks older Americans with skyrocketing insurance bills, all to give another huge tax cut to the rich. The fact that these guys wrote a bill that does all this stuff -- on purpose -- is hard to get your head around. “On what planet is it a good idea to allow insurance companies to kick folks with pre-existing conditions off their plans? Who wins when veterans, cancer patients, children with disabilities, pregnant mothers and victims of sexual assault have to pay thousands of dollars more to get worse health care plans that don’t actually cover anything? “I’ve been saying since day one, we can bring down costs and make Obamacare work better, without making people pay more money for less coverage or kicking them off health insurance all together – but this sorry excuse for a bill is not the answer.”
05.03.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, issued the following statement after joining his colleagues to introduce the Equality Act. The Equality Act would ensure nationwide, comprehensive protection from discrimination for LGBT people. Currently, LGBT Americans have no protection from discrimination in 29 states. “In a couple weeks my husband and I will celebrate 25 years together – but I don’t want to celebrate another anniversary where families like mine are denied housing or someone is fired because of who they love. Unfortunately, right now millions of Americans could be fired, denied service at a restaurant or refused housing just because they are LGBTQ. “Last year, during the fight in Congress over the Maloney Amendment, we learned that there is a bipartisan majority to end LGBTQ discrimination under federal law. This gives me hope that together we can end legalized discrimination. We must pass the Equality Act – so that those who discriminate can no longer hide behind federal law and LGBT Americans are guaranteed equal treatment.”
04.28.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced more than $1.1 million in federal funding for Head Start of Eastern Orange County, Inc. This investment will support Early Learning and Head Start programs that provide education and development services for low-income children. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured more than $6 million in federal Health and Human Services (HHS) investments for Head Start programs in Orange County alone. “As a father of three kids, I know firsthand how important it is to give our kids a strong academic foundation - it's the single most important investment we can make,” said Rep. Maloney. “It’s a fact that kids who have the opportunity to learn early in Head Start and other early childhood programs are better prepared for the future than kids who don’t, and this federal investment makes sure more children in Orange County get that opportunity to succeed." “We very much appreciate the support of Congressman Maloney. We know we can’t do this alone and are grateful to our community partners that support our efforts to ensure every child has the skills necessary to enter kindergarten ready to learn and be successful life-long learners,” said Ann Pagliaro, Executive Director of Head Start of Eastern Orange County. “We are excited to continue operating 13 daily classes for 227 pre-school children from this community. Our mission is to ensure there is no achievement gap for any children entering kindergarten.” This federal investment builds upon previous awards that Rep. Maloney secured for Head Start programs in Orange County. Last February, Rep. Maloney announced that his office secured a $1.7 million grant for the Regional Economic Community Action Program (RECAP), which totals over $3 million secured in the past two years for RECAP. Last April, Rep. Maloney also announced more than $2.2 million for Head Start of Eastern Orange County to support Early Learning and Head Start programs that provide education and development services for low-income children. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured a total of over $6 million for Head Start programs in Orange County. Together, these awards will continue to provide families across the Hudson Valley with the resources needed to provide education and development services for children and families. Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide comprehensive child development programs for children from birth to age 5, pregnant women, and families. The programs focus on preparing children for school. Head Start of Eastern Orange County is a non-profit organization which provides education to more than 300 children in the Hudson Valley and employs more than 40 full-time staff. Their mission is to provide the highest quality program to meet the health, education, and social supports of children and families so that they can be successful in school and in life.
04.15.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Trump nominated Tennessee State Senator Mark Green to serve as Secretary of the Army. “Mark Green has sponsored legislation to discriminate against the LGBTQ community and said people who are transgender have a disease. "I respect the guy's military service, but he's clearly one of these politicians who for some reason is obsessed with discriminating against gay people. At a time of international crisis, couldn't we just have someone focused on protecting our county?" Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
04.13.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of $7,554 to Town of Newburgh Emergency Services to allow emergency medical staff to purchase pagers. The award was made as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, and the Town of Newburgh will match 25% of the award locally. “This investment will allow our emergency medical personnel to improve communications and get on-scene faster,” said Rep. Maloney. “My neighbors in Newburgh should rest easier knowing that first responders will be able to respond more rapidly to emergency situations – which in a dangerous scenario can be the difference between life or death.” “The Town of Newburgh Emergency Medical Services will use the grant money awarded to us to purchase new pagers for our volunteer personal,” said Newburgh Emergency Medical Services President Nyx Conklin. “These pagers will alert the members when an emergency call is placed in our district. This will assist us with having our volunteers answer more calls in the future. As of last year our agency answered 2500 calls in our district. We are among the top three highest call volumes in Orange County. We would like to express our gratitude for awarding us with the grant.” Earlier this month, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee calling for an allocation of $405 million to fund the AFG Program in the fiscal year 2018 budget. The AFG Program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since Fiscal Year (FY) 2001, the AFG Program has provided approximately $6.7 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. The AFG program will award another $310.5 million to first-responder organizations that need support to improve their capability to respond to fires and emergencies of all types.
04.13.2017	Newburgh, NY – Less than a year after announcing $6.7 million in investments for several projects along I-684, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, New York State Senator George Latimer, New York State Assemblyman David Buchwald, and Bedford Supervisor Chris Burdick announced another massive road repair investment of $6.5 million to repave a dilapidated stretch of I-684 between Harris Road and Route 35. Construction on the decades-old interstate will begin in 2018, and will include an impact study of potential permanent fixes to additional local transportation concerns, including the Saw Mill Parkway Interchange. “This stretch of 684 is a mess – it’s dangerous and it costs drivers a fortune every year because of the damage it causes to their tires and suspensions,” said U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, a Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “This investment will fix those problems while bringing good-paying jobs and millions in economic activity to our neck of the woods – this is a big deal.” "My partners in government and I have listened to the people of Bedford, and I am extremely pleased that our efforts will bring a solution to this longstanding problem," said Senator George Latimer, D-Rye. “Rebuilding our transportation infrastructure is vital to the Westchester County economy, and this funding will make I-684 safer for those who live, work and visit here,” said Assemblyman David Buchwald (D-Mount Kisco). “This is especially good news for the tens of thousands of motorists who travel the northern section of I-684 every day and the neighbors of the highway who hope to reduce the impact of road noise on their neighborhoods.” “I’m delighted that all of I-684 running through the town of Bedford is going to be repaved between this year and next year,” said Bedford Supervisor Chris Burdick. “So much due to the efforts of our residents who made their voices heard.” This victory for Westchester and Putnam residents is the result of efforts at the federal, state and local levels. Supervisor Burdick echoed the concerns raised in the transportation survey and facilitated meetings with local residents and state officials that allowed for this project to come to fruition. Senator Latimer and Assemblyman Buchwald lobbied for the inclusion of these funds in the New York State Budget. Much of the funding itself was made available by the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, passed in the U.S. Congress in December, 2015, and supported by Rep. Maloney. I-684 handles significant daily commuter traffic and is the main north-south connection between I-84 and I-287 east of the Hudson River. It carries average daily traffic volumes of approximately 65,000 to 70,000 vehicles. These sections of road are original surface and are roughly 40 years old. The first segments of I-684 were built in 1968 and the road was completed in its current form by the end of 1974. The condition of I-684 is the most frequently cited infrastructure request of our Westchester and Putnam County residents. According to a report from The Road Information Program, bad roads cost New Yorkers nearly $25 billion every year in repairs, collisions, and congestion-related delays. Last year, the group of lawmakers announced a similar resurfacing project worth $6.7 million for road rehabilitation in Westchester County. Specifically, $2.2 million was awarded to resurface a segment of the asphalt pavement on State Route 121 from Route 22 to Route 35 in the Town of Bedford, $2.4 million to resurface State Route 138 from Interstate 684 to Route 121 in the Town of Lewisboro and $2.1 million to resurface State Route 133 from Route 120 to the Village of Mount Kisco. Federal funding was made available to the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), which administers the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP). Construction on these roadways began last year.
04.07.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after President Trump ordered a missile strike on a Syrian airbase. “First of all, I hope everyone will join me in saying a prayer for our troops who are right now in harm’s way serving our country. “President Assad is a butcher and a murderer, and the images of his chemical weapons attack on his own people – including women and children – was one of the most disturbing things I have ever seen. Last night’s tactical strikes were a targeted and proportionate response. “However, the U.S. cannot conduct foreign policy on an ad hoc basis. If the President wants to take expanded military action in Syria, he must get a formal Authorization for the Use of Military Force from Congress. Members of Congress should have to stand up and be counted before we commit to a wider conflict in Syria. In addition, any plan to increase our military role in this conflict has to include a clear mission objective and exit strategy and it needs the support of the American people.”
04.05.2017	Bill Introduced with 55 Original Co-Sponsors Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18), Mike Gallagher (R-WI-8), Tim Walz (D-MN-1), and Paul Cook (R-CA-8) introduced the bipartisan National Purple Heart Call of Honor Commemorative Coin Act with 55 original co-sponsors. This legislation would honor the Purple Heart Hall of Honor with a commemorative coin provided by the U.S. Mint. Proceeds from this program will go to the Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. for projects and programs at the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor that help preserve the memory and sacrifices of our service men and women who were wounded or killed in combat. The Hall of Honor is located in Rep. Maloney’s district in New Windsor, NY, where George Washington first founded the Purple Heart medal in 1782. “Many of our men and women in uniform come home with serious injuries, and the least we can do as a country is honor their sacrifice and preserve their memory for future generations. I’ve always been proud that we have the Hall in my district in New Windsor – on the same ground where George Washington created the medal 235 years ago – and it’s my honor to do my part in Congress to support Americans who served and sacrificed for the rest of us,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “During my time in the Marines Corps and two tours in Iraq, I witnessed firsthand brave men and women risk their lives for this country, many of whom were seriously wounded in battle or paid the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom. This act would be a small step in commemorating and honoring their brave service and sacrifice for future generations,” said Representative Mike Gallagher, Marine Corps veteran. “There are few others who have sacrificed more than the our nation’s Purple Heart recipients. Since the honor’s incorporation into our military heritage in 1782 by George Washington, almost 2 million Purple Hearts have been awarded to American veterans and to those who selflessly given their lives in defense of our great nation. The service and sacrifice of the brave men and women who were wounded or killed in uniform should never be forgotten, which is why I am so proud to cosponsor this bipartisan legislation,” said Representative Tim Walz, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor recognizes the sacrifice of U.S. service members, dating all the way back to the Revolutionary War, who have earned the Purple Heart. I’m proud to support this bipartisan legislation which will honor and memorialize the sacrifices of these heroes so that future generations will never forget,” said Representative Paul Cook, Chair of the Congressional Purple Heart Caucus. Rep. Cook served as an infantry officer and retired after 26 years as a Colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps. During his time in combat, he was awarded the Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. "MOPH deeply thanks Representative Maloney for introducing this bill, which would serve as a fitting tribute to all those who were killed or wounded in defense of our Nation. Equally as important, it would provide critical funding for the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, allowing it to continue its important mission of reminding the public of the cost of freedom,” said Hershel Gober, Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH), National Commander. The National Purple Heat Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act (H.R.1683) authorizes the U.S. Treasury to mint $5 gold coins, $1 silver coins, and half-dollar clad coins at the United States Mint at West Point. They will be sold in limited quantities. After production costs are recouped by the U.S. Treasury, proceeds from sales of the coin will go to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor to allow the organization to develop and renovate their facilities. The Purple Heart is one of the oldest and most recognized American military medals, awarded to service members who were killed or wounded by enemy action. The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor’s mission is to collect and preserve the stories of Purple Heart recipients from all branches of service and across generations to ensure that all recipients are represented, and serves as a living memorial to their sacrifice. George Washington founded the purple heart in New Windsor, NY in 1782. The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act has been endorsed by The Military Order of the Purple Heart, Armed Forces Marketing Council, American Military Retirees Association, American Military Society, AMVETS, Army Navy Union, Association of the United States Navy, Gold Star Wives of America, Inc., Korean War Veterans Foundation, Military Order of Foreign Wars, National Defense Committee, National Enlisted Reserve Association, Reserve Officers Association, Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors, The Flag and General Officers Network, The Retired Enlisted Association, and Vietnam Veterans of America. In addition, the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act is co-sponsored by Representatives Mike Gallagher (R-WI-8), Timothy J. Walz (D-MN-1), Paul Cook (R-CA-8), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY-9), Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1) Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC-At Large), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA-11), David N. Cicilline (D-RI-1), Walter B. Jones, Jr. (R-NC-3), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL-9), Jose E. Serrano (D-NY-15), Doris O. Matsui (D-CA-6), Albio Sires (D-NJ-8), Nita M. Lowey (D-NY-17), Judy Chu (D-CA-27), Tom Cole (R-OK-4), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA-2), Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL-22), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP-At Large), Mike Quigley (D-IL-5), Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-NY-25), John Garamendi (D-CA-3), Julia Brownley (D-CA-26), Chris Collins (R-NY-27), Tim Ryan (D-OH-13), James A. Himes (D-CT-4), Daniel Webster (R-FL-11), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL-2), Sander M. Levin (D-MI-9), Raul Ruiz (D-CA-36), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), Mark Pocan (D-WI-2), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-19), Tony Cardenas (D-CA-29), Mark Takano (D-CA-41), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY-4); John B. Larson (D-CT-1); Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (R-NY-11); Jim Cooper (D-TN-5); David Loebsack (D-IA-2); Hakeem S. Jeffries (D-NY-8); John J. Faso (R-NY-19); Kevin Cramer (R-ND-At Large); David G. Valadao (R-CA-21); Todd Rokita (R-IN-4); Ann M. Kuster (D-NH-2); Mike Thompson (D-CA-5); Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY-3); Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI-5); Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ-6); Stacey E. Plaskett (D-VI-At Large); Elise M. Stefanik (R-NY-21); Richard E. Neal (D-MA-1); Claudia Tenney (R-NY-22); and Linda T. Sanchez (D-CA-38).
04.04.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on Equal Pay Day, which symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. “It’s not okay that right now my daughters would earn a fraction of what my son would earn for the same job. In fact, women – although more likely to be the caretakers and breadwinners – still earn only 80 cents for every dollar earned by men,” said Rep. Maloney. “Ensuring women get equal pay for equal work is not only the right thing to do but it is better for our families and our economy. Since joining Congress I’ve recognized Equal Pay Day five times, which is five times too many. It’s time for Congress to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act – because our daughters deserve better.” Rep. Maloney is an original co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill introduced by Rep. Rosa DeLauro. This commonsense bill would create protections that will help close the gender pay gap by adding federal protections to the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which will require employers to offer more transparency as it pertains to wages, require proof for wage discrepancies based on qualifications as opposed to gender and prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who raise concerns about gender-based wage discrimination. Last year, Rep. Maloney released his updated plan to “Expand Economic Opportunities for Women.” This comprehensive plan built on his 2014 proposal, which Politico said was “one of the most extensive efforts” to highlight economic challenges facing women. The plan includes policies to strengthen the Equal Pay Act, increase the federal minimum wage to $15, establish a national Paid Family and Medical Leave program, expand the Child Care Tax Credit, increase quality and affordable early childhood education, make college more affordable, support women-owned small businesses and protect women’s freedom of choice. You can find a copy of the comprehensive plan here.
04.03.2017	Under President Trump’s Budget Proposal, Program Could Lose Necessary Funding Poughkeepsie, NY— Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Youthbuild/AmeriCorps student Dwayne Joyner and Nubian Directions Youthbuild AmeriCorps Partnership Director Mario Johnson to call on President Donald Trump to fully fund the Youthbuild/AmeriCorps Program and increase access to life-saving medication such as Naloxone to help save individuals suffering from opioid and substance-related drug overdoses. Last week, The Poughkeepsie Journal reported that Joyner was able to save the life of an unconscious man who had suffered from an opioid-related overdose in Poughkeepsie by administering naloxone nasal spray and utilizing the skills he learned during a Youthbuild/AmeriCorps training. According to a report in the Washington Post, if Congress passed President Donald Trump’s budget proposal, “gone would be $35 million in funding for well-known programs such as YouthBuild.” “I could not be prouder of Dwayne Joyner for springing into action when it was clear someone in our community was in danger – and I want to thank the Youthbuild program that gave Dwayne the tools he needed to save this man from overdosing. We need more young people like Dwayne, and we need more programs and access to Narcan for our communities who are being ravaged by this devastating epidemic,” said Rep. Maloney. “Unfortunately, instead of supporting Youthbuild, President Donald Trump’s budget would make enormous cuts to critical organizations like Youthbuild and Americorps – he should knock it off and fully fund this program so it can continue to help our young people and save lives.” “We are extremely proud of Dwayne, his compassion and ability to administer Narcan to save a man’s life just one day after receiving Narcan training. He is truly a hero and an example of what can happen when young people gain access to opportunities available to them in YouthBuild and AmeriCorps,” said Robert Wright, Executive Director of the YouthBuild AmeriCorps program. In 2015, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter of support and then secured a $1.1 million Youthbuild grant for Nubian Directions II in Poughkeepsie. This year, Rep. Maloney joined dozens of his colleagues in signing onto a letter urging robust funding for the Youthbuild program. A copy of the letter is below. The Honorable Tom Cole Chair Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 2358-B Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Rosa DeLauro Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro: We write in strong support of the U.S. Department of Labor's YouthBuild program in Fiscal Year 2018. We respectfully request that you include robust levels of funding for this important program. Reauthorized in 2014, YouthBuild is a Federal program first established in 1992. Young people between the ages of 16 and 24, who left high school without a diploma, apply and enroll in YouthBuild for an average of ten months. The program includes an equal division between helping them earn their high school diploma or equivalent and teaching hands-on, job skills by building affordable housing for homeless and low-income people in their communities. In addition to construction, some young people train for jobs in other emerging job sectors, such as healthcare, technology, and customer service. To date, over 160,000 students in 44 states have built more than 35,000 units of affordable housing in low-income communities and performed more than 49.5 million hours of community service. YouthBuild programs can helps at-risk young people realize their full potential. YouthBuild programs provide holistic, full-time services; there is a strong emphasis on education, job training, counseling, mentoring, leadership development, and community service. With the right approach and engagement, low-income, young people who left high school without a diploma become assets to their communities, and productive, working citizens. Compared to highly motivated individuals receiving alternative services, YouthBuild participants are - · 78% more likely to attain a GED; · 51% more likely to enroll in vocational school; · 33% more likely to enroll in college; · 23% more likely to earn more than $10 per hour. The nation's ability to reconnect unemployed and undereducated young adults is essential to our economic productivity. Moreover, local programs are required to raise a 25% non-federal match, leveraging private funds to maximize impact. YouthBuild graduates are also 11% more likely to live with their children, 6% less likely to be dependent on government benefits, and 76% more likely to serve their community. A recent study found that YouthBuild's preventative and alternative services currently save taxpayers an estimated $70 million in public assistance spending and reduces spending on crime by $100 million. We hope that the Committee will include robust levels of funding in fiscal year 2018. As always, we greatly appreciate your consideration of our views, and thank you for your previous support of YouthBuild's work and mission.
03.25.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after House Republican Leadership cancelled a vote on their own bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. “After seven years of big talk about repealing Obamacare, the best idea these guys have to offer is so terrible they can't even get other Republicans to support it. “I’ve said since day one that I want to get to work and improve parts of the Affordable Care Act. But that means sitting down and having a real conversation to make things better. Defunding Planned Parenthood, gutting Medicare and Medicaid, cutting off health care for veterans and creating a tax on older people are just dumb ideas, and I hope Republicans in Congress can drop them so we can move on. We can bring down costs and make this thing work better without kicking people off health insurance – but we need to work together.”
03.24.2017	Newburgh, NY — On Sunday, March 26th, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding a town hall in Brewster. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. So far this year, Rep. Maloney has held “Speak with Sean” town halls and neighborhood office hours in Middletown, North Salem, Poughkeepsie, Fishkill and Newburgh. “No matter what side of the aisle you’re on, I know a lot of people have questions or concerns about what is going on down in Washington and neighborhood office hours give me the chance to answer many of their questions in person,” said Rep. Maloney. “Folks should know I am here to listen and get things done for them and I look forward to holding even more town halls in the coming weeks – on the phones, online and in-person.” At “Speak with Sean” events, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with federal agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. Rep. Maloney’s office has handled over 4,100 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $6.8 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Sunday, March 26th from 12:30-1:30 WHERE: Sheet Metal Workers’ Local 38 Training Center at 38 Starr Ridge Road in Brewster In addition to posting “Speak with Sean” information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information has been made public on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email and many constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event being held in their neighborhood.
03.20.2017	Poughkeepsie, NY— In response to the heroin and opioid epidemic, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro and City of Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison in Poughkeepsie to introduce federal legislation to combat the opioid and heroin crisis and stop mass incarceration of abusers and low-level drug offenders nationwide. By allowing police officers to use their discretion to divert individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them and processing them through the criminal justice system, these programs give police officers the flexibility they need to help curb the growing opioid epidemic, decrease low-level drug crime, and reduce the number of low-level drug related arrests. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would create a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program to fund pre-booking drug diversion programs, which give law enforcement the option of diverting individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them, in counties designated as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). In the Hudson Valley, which has seen more than 1,135 opioid-related deaths in the last decade, Rep. Maloney has secured HIDTA designations for Putnam and Dutchess Counties, in addition to Orange and Westchester Counties. “Everywhere I go in the Hudson Valley I hear stories about friends and loved ones lost to heroin and opioid addiction. We need a comprehensive approach to fighting this epidemic – and that starts with supporting our law enforcement officers who are on the frontlines of both crime and treatment. My legislation would provide a critical tool for these law enforcement officers to divert addicts directly to treatment instead of chronically arresting them,” said Rep. Maloney. “There is no silver bullet solution, but working together with County Executive Molinaro, Mayor Rolison, our local law enforcement, prosecutors, and community leaders we can make sure those on the frontlines have the support they need to expand prevention and treatment efforts, get drugs off our streets, and keep our children safe.” County Executive Marcus J. Molinaro said, “this legislation, if enacted, would provide critical support and resources for Dutchess County’s ongoing efforts to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic in our community, as well as to continue with our efforts to divert individuals from entering the criminal justice system. Dutchess County’s drug diversion programs including our newly opened Stabilization Center and Crisis Intervention Team training are working together to address this issue and are unique in America. This funding would allow for a collective and integrative response among law enforcement agencies and community service providers to help divert individuals dealing with substance abuse from jail and to help they need.” “The heroin and opioid epidemic is a national crisis which effects every community across this country. Being able to divert individuals with addiction into treatment will go to help start the process of getting them stabilized and preventing them from entering the criminal justice system. I appreciate the efforts being made by Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney to direct financial resources to the local communities who know how best to utilize these funds,” said Mayor Rob Rolison. Prescription drug abuse is a growing public health crisis that affects people of every race, income, and educational level. In 2013, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam and Westchester Counties had 233 reported deaths from drug overdoses. In 2010 alone, opioids contributed to over 16,000 deaths and heroin-involved overdose deaths nearly doubled between 2011 and 2013. According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) 2014 National Survey on Drug Abuse, 4.3 million people 12 years or older reported currently abusing prescription drugs. Moreover, each year drug abuse and addiction costs over $534 billion, but the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) estimates that we could save $4-$7 in criminal justice costs for every dollar invested in treatment and prevention. Additionally, 2.3 million Americans are incarcerated, and approximately 50% of these inmates are clinically addicted. In fact, approximately 60% of individuals arrested for most criminal activity test positive for illicit drugs at the time of the arrest. Furthermore, imprisonment has little effect on drug abuse as approximately 95% return to drug use after their release and between 60-80% of drug abusers commit a new crime, which are typically drug-driven. Individuals that participated in the Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) pilot program in Seattle found that participants had nearly 60% lower odds of being rearrested, and in Gloucester, MA the Angel program has cut costs from $220 to $55 per addict when they diverted them to treatment instead of arresting, processing and holding them in custody for just a single day. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act, would award grants, funded through the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Justice Programs, to assist law enforcement agencies in providing pre-booking diversion programs developed with local drug treatment programs and local prosecutors to address low-level drug crimes. The program would allow law enforcement officers, at their discretion, to redirect low-level offenders engaged in drug activity to community-based services, instead of jail and prosecution. By diverting eligible individuals to treatment services instead of incarceration, the programs would improve public safety and public order, and reduce the criminal behavior of people who participate in the program. The legislation would also allow the Attorney General to collect first-of-its-kind data on these programs. Rep. Maloney first introduced this legislation in the previous Congress with Rep. Richard Hanna, who has since retired.
03.15.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is once again inviting Hudson Valley high school artists to compete for an opportunity to showcase their art in the United States Capitol by participating in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The submission period ends on April 3rd and the winner will be selected later this spring. “The Hudson Valley has long been home to artists of all ages, and every year I look forward to showing off our talent to my colleagues in Congress,” said Rep. Maloney. “I invite all students in the Hudson Valley to participate and I can’t wait to see what they come up with.” All submissions of student artwork must be framed, and a Student Information and Release Form should be dropped off to Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh Office located at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY. The competition is open to high school students, but exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Contestants will compete with other students from the district and the winning student will be recognized at an awards ceremony in Washington, DC in June. The winning piece will be chosen by a panel of local judges in the Hudson Valley. Additionally, all pieces submitted will be posted on the Representative’s Facebook page for a period of two weeks starting on April 10th, and the work with the most “likes” will receive a separate award as the social media champion. All participants will be recognized at a reception hosted by Rep. Maloney this spring. The grand prize winning artwork will be displayed in the Capitol for one year and the winning student, plus one guest, will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception in June. You can view last year’s art competition entries on Rep. Maloney’s Facebook page. All entries must be submitted by April 3. For further information, contact Lizette Hernandez by phone at 845-561-1259 or email Lizette.hernandez@mail.house.gov.
03.13.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released a report detailing the cost, savings and coverage estimates for the House Republican repeal and replacement health care bill, also known as the American Health Care Act. “Listen, I wasn’t in Congress when Obamacare passed and I’ve always said we need to get to work fixing it, but this thing is so terrible it frankly isn’t worthy of being called a health care bill. Ripping insurance away from 24 million people, defunding Planned Parenthood, gutting Medicare and Medicaid, and sticking older Americans with skyrocketing bills just to give another tax cut to the rich is just dumb as a box of rocks.”
03.08.2017	Washington – After hosting four in-person “Speak with Sean” town halls in the past couple weeks, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will continue his town hall series by giving folks in the Hudson Valley another opportunity to share any questions, comments and concerns they have on Facebook. Tonight, starting at 7:00 PM, Rep. Maloney will hold a Facebook Live Town Hall and answer questions in real-time on his Facebook page. “No matter what side of the aisle you’re on, I know a lot of people have questions or concerns about what is going on in Washington, and telephone and Facebook Live town hall’s give me the chance to answer questions even when I am down in Washington,” said Rep. Maloney. “I hope everyone will tune in tonight to ask questions and I look forward to hosting more town hall’s in the coming weeks – I am here to listen whether I am at home in the Hudson Valley or working down in Washington.” So far in 2017, Rep. Maloney has held four in-person “Speak with Sean” town halls and neighborhood office hours in Poughkeepsie, Fishkill, Newburgh and North Salem. Last month, Rep. Maloney also held a live “Speak with Sean” telephone town hall with more than 18,000 Hudson Valley residents. For tonight’s town hall, Rep. Maloney has invited constituents to participate with posts on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will also receive an email invitation to tonight’s event.
03.07.2017	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after a CSX freight train derailed in Newburgh. “I am getting sick and tired of issuing statements about dangerous train derailments – this time only blocks from my office in Newburgh. I’m glad to hear reports that no one was killed but even one injury is too many. It’s got to stop. “While we don’t yet know why the train derailed we do know that outdated train cars barreling down the Hudson River carrying hazardous materials are literally a train wreck waiting to happen. We have to get smarter about how we transport crude oil, and invest in installing positive train control (PTC) on all our trains – the longer we fail to prioritize investing in rail safety infrastructure and technology, the more innocent lives we put in jeopardy.” Rep. Maloney is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has been a leader on rail safety and investing in positive train control (PTC), a simple Wi-Fi and GPS technology that can stop or slow trains remotely. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 was signed into law, which requires passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify high-hazard curves, like those involved in the Spuyten Duyvil and Philadelphia train derailments, and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installing of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication. In March 2015, the House also passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads.
03.06.2017	Yonkers, NY – Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Eliot Engel (NY-16), and City of Yonkers Mayor Mike Spano announced federal legislation that would halt proposals by the United States Coast Guard to expand mooring infrastructure on the Hudson River between Kingston and Yonkers. Rep. Maloney’s Hudson River Protection Act, would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, nuclear power plant, site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard wants to designate as anchorage sites. Rep. Engel is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “The Coast Guard’s proposal to install new anchorage sites on the Hudson is a bad idea and I will do whatever I can to stop it,” said Rep. Maloney. “We don’t need more anchorage sites, we don’t want them – it is too dangerous and too harmful to the Hudson River, which we are still trying to clean up – the last thing we need is for the river to become a parking lot for hazardous oil tankers.” “We cannot allow New York to be dumped on by this proposal from the Coast Guard. The Yonkers and Hastings waterfronts which I represent have undergone incredible revitalization in recent years. But this proposal, in addition to offering some very serious environmental concerns, could imperil the great strides that our local communities have made in improving their economic development on the coastline. We will continue to fight this matter tooth and nail at both the federal and local levels,” said Rep. Engel. “The proposal put forth by the Coast Guard and maritime industry certainly will reindustrialize the beautiful, natural gem that is our Hudson River and undermine the progress we’ve all made on our waterfronts,” said Mayor Spano. “Thank you to Representatives Maloney and Engel for proposing this much-needed legislation and for supporting our communities. I look forward to continue working with them until we are successful.” The Coast Guard has announced advanced notice of a proposed rulemaking which, if conducted, could result in the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River for large commercial ships travelling from up-river to the port of New York. The anchorage sites would provide these ships a location to drop anchor before continuing on to the port. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings before the proposal can advance, and sent his own letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. In August, Reps. Maloney and Engel, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and Rep. Lowey, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period to December 6th. In September, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. On September 15th, Rep. Maloney asked Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to the proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston. In December, Rep. Maloney submitted 404 comments from local residents to the U.S. Coast Guard.
03.03.2017	Newburgh, NY — On Saturday March 4th, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding a town hall in North Salem. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. Last week, Rep. Maloney kicked off his 2017 series of “Speak with Sean” town halls and neighborhood office hours by holding events in Poughkeepsie, Fishkill and Newburgh. “No matter what side of the aisle you’re on, I know a lot of people have questions or concerns about what is going on down in Washington and neighborhood office hours give me the chance to answer many of their questions in person,” said Rep. Maloney, who has hosted nearly 90 Speak with Sean events since joining Congress in 2013. “Folks should know I am here to listen and get things done for them and I look forward to holding even more town halls in the coming weeks – both telephone and in-person town halls.” At “Speak with Sean” events, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with federal agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. Rep. Maloney’s office has handled over 4,100 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $6.6 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, March 4th from 10:30AM-11:30AM WHERE: Westchester Exceptional Children’s School at 520 NY-22 in North Salem In addition to posting “Speak with Sean” information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information has been made public on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email and many constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event being held in their neighborhood.
03.02.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement calling on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign, after reports surfaced that Sessions lied about meeting with Russian officials. “Jeff Sessions’ opposition to equal rights already made him unfit to serve, but he lied under oath – he has got to go. “We also need to look at the bigger picture here and figure out why he perjured himself and if there is more to this story. We need a no-kidding independent investigation into Russian hacking and influence. What are they hiding?"
03.01.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s first address to Congress: "If you want to work together to rebuild our transportation and infrastructure systems, fight the heroin epidemic, or create good-paying jobs for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley - I'm all for it. Unfortunately actions speak louder than words and the clumsy and ill-conceived actions President Trump has taken so far, which have undermined our constitution, make it very difficult to work with him. But I'll stay at it."
02.27.2017	Newburgh, NY — Following the implementation of a series of Executive Orders and bills targeting women’s health, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that Ruth-Ellen Blodgett, President & CEO of Planned Parenthood Mid-Hudson Valley, will be his guest for President Trump’s first speech to a joint session of Congress. “Ruth-Ellen is joining me to send the message that women’s health is not something this administration can play political games with, and that it affects the lives of thousands of people I represent in the Hudson Valley,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “I will fight tooth and nail to ensure women can get the testing, family planning services, and education they need to stay healthy and make their own choices about their bodies without government interference.” "I am deeply honored to be a guest of Congressman Maloney at this historic session with members of Congress who will soon be voting on crucial access to reproductive health care services in our most vulnerable communities,” said Ruth-Ellen Blodgett, President & CEO, Planned Parenthood Mid-Hudson Valley. “Planned Parenthood Mid-Hudson Valley applauds Congressman Maloney's respect to his district constituents and the valiant support he has demonstrated for Planned Parenthood, reproductive health care rights and access in the communities we serve." Planned Parenthood affiliates provide essential healthcare to over 40,000 Hudson Valley residents annually. Services include screenings for breast and cervical cancer, access to family planning, testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and education. Representative Maloney received a 100% rating on Planned Parenthood’s 2017 Legislative Scorecard, and has made access to women’s health and family planning services a cornerstone of his plan to Expand Economic Opportunities for Women. Rep. Maloney first released his plan to “Expand Economic Opportunities for Women” in 2014, which Politico called “one of the most extensive efforts” to highlight economic challenges facing women.
02.27.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement in response to reports that Jewish Community Centers in Tarrytown and Scarsdale had received terroristic threats. “Acts of terrorism against communities of any faith in the Hudson Valley will not be tolerated. Period. I condemn these disgusting acts and the people who committed them. “America’s strength is in our diversity – and we cannot allow a climate of hate to force any community to live in fear. I have joined a huge, bipartisan group of lawmakers in a letter demanding that the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Bureau of Investigation find those responsible and bring them to justice. We cannot allow terrorism against the Jewish community to become the norm.”
02.27.2017	Newburgh, NY — Following the release of the first round of blood test results for Newburgh residents concerned about PFOS and PFOA exposure from drinking contaminated water, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he will introduce The Investing in Testing Act, which will require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct a two-year study into the long-term health effects of this exposure. Many residents tested above the national average for PFOS and PFOA, but there is little data on the chemical’s impact on human health. “Getting these tests done was an important first step, but we have to keep the ball rolling and find out what it really means to be above the national average,” said Representative Maloney. “My bill will get the CDC moving on a study that will get us these answers and help us figure out what the next steps are.” "New York, like many other states nationwide, faces the stark reality of legacy pollution that threatens access to clean drinking water. To address this issue, Governor Cuomo launched the Water Quality Rapid Response team to take aggressive actions to safeguard our water supplies and hold polluters accountable. The governor has also proposed an unprecedented $2 billion in this year’s budget to upgrade our outdated water infrastructure across the state,” said New York State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker. “This issue is not just limited to New York – it’s a national issue that demands national leadership. We join Congressman Maloney in urging the federal government to provide the necessary funding to help us better understand these contaminants and their potential impact on the public’s health." "St. Luke’s Cornwall Hospital is proud to have been selected by the New York State Department of Health as one of the blood drawing sites, allowing ease of access and flexibility for Newburgh residents," said Joan Cusack-McGuirk, President and CEO of Saint Luke's Cornwall Hospital. "We applaud Congressman Maloney for his efforts in regards to the Investing in Testing Act, as well as our colleagues from the New York State Department of Health and the City of Newburgh for their due diligence in this important matter." Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water supply, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source without placing the financial burden on the City. After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’s request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” On September 20, Maloney and state officials announced the launch of the New York State Department of Health’s biomonitoring program for Newburgh. In addition to hundreds of Newburgh residents, Maloney received his results as part of the round of blood test results released last week. On May 19, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the EPA calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan.
02.23.2017	Hosted Nearly 90 Speak with Sean Events Since 2013, Including 30 Telephone Town Halls Newburgh, NY — On Saturday February 25th and Sunday February 26th, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will kick off his 2017 “Speak with Sean” series by holding town halls and Neighborhood Office Hours in Poughkeepsie, Fishkill, and Newburgh. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. In addition, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with federal agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “No matter what side of the aisle you’re on, I know a lot of people have questions or concerns about what is going on down in Washington and neighborhood office hours give me the chance to answer many of their questions in person,” said Rep. Maloney, who has hosted nearly 90 Speak with Sean events since joining Congress in 2013. “Folks should know I am here to listen and get things done for them and I look forward to holding even more town halls in the coming weeks – both telephone and in-person town halls.” Last week, Rep. Maloney held his first live “Speak with Sean” Telephone Town Hall of 2017. More than 18,000 Hudson Valley residents joined Rep. Maloney for an hour-long live telephone town hall where Rep. Maloney answered questions on a variety of topics including the Affordable Care Act (ACA), the Coast Guard’s anchorage proposal, Planned Parenthood, veterans casework issues, and Social Security. Rep. Maloney also answered questions surrounding President Trump’s cabinet nominations, controversial travel ban, and investigation into the Trump Administration’s relationship with Russia. Rep. Maloney’s office has handled over 4,100 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $6.6 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, February 25th from 12:30PM-1:30PM WHERE: Poughkeepsie High School at 70 Forbus Street in Poughkeepsie, NY WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, February 25th from 2:15PM-3:15PM WHERE: Fishkill Recreation Center at 793 Route 52 in Fishkill, NY WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Sunday, February 26th from 11:30AM-12:30PM WHERE: Newburgh Armory Unity Center at 321 S William St. in Newburgh, NY In addition to posting “Speak with Sean” information on Rep. Maloney’s official website, the information has been made public on his Facebook page, and Twitter account. Constituents who have signed up for Rep. Maloney’s e-Newsletter program will receive an email and many constituents will receive a phone call inviting them to attend the event being held in their neighborhood.
02.22.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Departments of Justice and Education released a new guidance which seeks to undermine the rights of children and students who are transgender: “President Trump says he supports the LGBTQ community – but talk is cheap and this move proves it. You can try and call this a states’ rights issue, but that’s the same weak argument the Jim Crow south used to support segregation. I don’t buy it, and neither should anyone else. This is a hateful and old-fashioned attempt to restrict the rights of innocent American children simply because of who they are. “This doesn’t change the fact that Title IX protects trans kids, but it does send the wrong message to our young people – that lawmakers are willing to discriminate to score political points. I will fight this decision in every way I can, and hope that the Supreme Court makes the right decision on trans equality in the coming months.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
02.22.2017	New Windsor, NY — On George Washington’s birthday, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined elected officials, veterans and service organizations at the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor in New Windsor to announce the introduction of The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act. The bill would honor the Hall with a commemorative coin provided by the U.S. Mint, and proceeds from sales of the coin will go to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor to allow the organization to develop and renovate their facilities. “Many of our men and women in uniform come home with serious injuries, and the least we can do as a country is honor their sacrifice and preserve their memory for future generations. I’ve always been proud that we have the Hall right here in New Windsor – on the same ground where George Washington created the medal 235 years ago – and it’s my honor to do my part in Congress to support Americans who served and sacrificed for the rest of us,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “Honoring our Purple Heart recipients is our responsibility as free Americans. I look forward to working with Congressman Maloney on this bi-partisan effort. We must continue to properly document and honor our veterans bravery by supporting the mission of the Hall,” said New York State Senator William J. Larkin, Jr. “It’s our duty as Americans to honor the sacrifices made by our brave men and women in uniform. That’s why I support Rep. Maloney’s efforts to mint these commemorative coins to pay tribute to our soldiers and veterans as well as generate crucial funding that allows the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor to preserve the memory of those who were injured or killed in service of our country,” said New York State Assemblyman James Skoufis. “I would like to thank Congressman Maloney for sponsoring this important piece of legislation. The Purple Heart is one of the most recognizable and important medals in the history of our nation’s military. The Purple Heart is even more special to those of us living here in Orange County because General George Washington made the first presentations here at the New Windsor Cantonment in the closing days of the Revolutionary War. From the Revolutionary War, to Vietnam, to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, Orange County has contributed a critical role in serving this country’s military’s efforts,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “With the assistance of Congressman Maloney’s own Veteran’s Advisory Board and all other veteran service organizations, we hope to not only acquire the minimum number of Congressional sponsors for this bill but the sponsorship of every Congressperson in the 115th Congress for such a deserving cause and because those who have received the Purple Heart Medal in combat have earned nothing less than the honor this bill will afford them,” said Christopher W. Eachus, Orange County Legislator and Orange County Commander, Sons of the American Legion. “We cannot honor our veterans enough, but especially those that were killed or wounded in action while serving. This creative act will ensure that current and future recipients of the Purple Heart are not forgotten. By finding a way to fund the Purple Heart Museum, Representative Maloney has revealed his love of country and enormous respect for those that defend it. Thank you!” said Matthew A. Turnbull, Minority Leader, Orange County Legislator. The Purple Heart is one of the oldest and most recognized American military medals, awarded to service members who were killed or wounded by enemy action. The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor’s mission is to collect and preserve the stories of Purple Heart recipients from all branches of service and across generations to ensure that all recipients are represented, and serves as a living memorial to their sacrifice. The National Purple Heat Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act authorizes the U.S. Treasury to mint $5 gold coins, $1 silver coins, and half-dollar clad coins at the United States Mint at West Point. They will be sold in limited quantities. After production costs are recouped by the U.S. Treasury, proceeds from this program will go the Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. for projects and programs at the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor that help preserve the memory and sacrifices of our service men and women who were wounded or killed in combat. Since joining Congress in 2013, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has introduced and passed eight veterans bills into law. Many of these bills seek to aid service members who were injured during their service, including the Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act, the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act, and the Appropriate Care for Veterans Act. His office has also cut through red tape to return over $3 million in earned benefits to more than 900 Hudson Valley vets.
02.16.2017	During the Call, 66% of Respondents Opposed Muslim Ban Washington – Last night, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney held his first live “Speak with Sean” Telephone Town Hall of 2017. More than 18,000 Hudson Valley residents joined Rep. Maloney for an hour-long live telephone town hall where Rep. Maloney answered questions on a variety of topics including the Affordable Care Act (ACA), the Coast Guard’s anchorage proposal, Planned Parenthood, veterans casework issues, and Social Security. Rep. Maloney also answered questions surrounding President Trump’s cabinet nominations, controversial Muslim ban, and investigation into the Trump Administration’s relationship with Russia. “No matter what side of the aisle you’re on, I know a lot of people have questions or concerns about what is going on down in Washington and this town hall gave me the chance to answer many of their questions in front of thousands of their neighbors,” said Rep. Maloney. “Folks should know I am here to listen and get things done for them and I look forward to holding even more town halls in the coming weeks – both telephone and in-person town halls.” During last night’s town hall, Rep. Maloney polled the audience regarding President Trump’s controversial Muslim ban. Of those who participated in the call and took the poll, 66% of respondents said they oppose the travel ban, 28% of respondents said they support it, and 6% reported they were undecided or unsure. These bipartisan telephone town hall events are attended by constituents of all ideological and partisan persuasions, and all constituents on the call are invited to participate in the poll.
02.13.2017	COPS Grant Provides Funding to Hire Additional Police Officers Middletown, NY – After The Hill reported that the White House Transition Team has proposed a budget blueprint, which would eliminate the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined local civic and law enforcement officials to call on President Donald Trump to keep his campaign promise to support our law enforcement community and refrain from eliminating the federal Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office. In addition, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter to the President asking him to protect the program. The Department of Justice’s (DOJ) COPS program provides investments to allow state and local police departments to hire police officers, test new strategies, and acquire cutting-edge technology. “Talk is cheap and it’s easy to say you support our law enforcement officers on the campaign trail, but it’s time to put your money where your mouth is,” said Rep. Maloney. “Shortchanging the people who risk their lives every day to protect us from the bad guys is not the way to save a buck and it sends the message that the government doesn’t care about America’s finest.” “My number one concern is keeping our people here in Middletown safe – and one of the ways we do that is maintaining a right-sized police force,” said Middletown Mayor Joe DeStefano. “We need the resources the COPS office provides to keep five officers on the street, and yanking that money away from us would immediately make Middletown less safe and would violate the President’s promise to retain law and order.” “We’re very concerned about the possibility of losing funding for five officers,” said Acting Police Chief, John Ewanciw. “We have five more guys on the beat because of this funding and I hope the President will reconsider this move because it would seriously hurt local departments here in the Hudson Valley – and throughout the country.” Since taking office, Rep. Maloney has secured $1.6 million in COPS investments to local police departments. In 2014, Rep. Maloney announced a $500,000 COPS investment to allow the Newburgh Police Department to hire four new officers. In 2015, he announced a $600,000 investment for Poughkeepsie’s police department to hire five additional officers. Most recently, in 2016, he announced another $500,000 COPS investment in the Middletown police department to allow the department to hire four more police officers. Created as part of the 1994 Crime Bill, the COPS Office awards grants to state and local law enforcement agencies to hire and train community policing professionals, acquire cutting-edge crime-fighting technologies, and develop and test innovative policing strategies. The budget blueprint referenced in media reports is based on recommendations from the Heritage Foundation, a special interest group, and calls for the total elimination of the program. A full text of the letter can be found here and below: Dear President Trump: I write in response to recent reports regarding your budget blueprint, which includes plans to eliminate the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). Eliminating this office would wipe out funding that has supported 13,000 law enforcement agencies and enabled them to hire 130,000 officers nationwide. You campaigned on a promise to support our law enforcement, and even styled yourself as the “law and order” candidate. Gutting or eliminating the COPS office would be a direct violation of that promise and would make our communities more dangerous. Reducing the budget is a worthy goal, but robbing law enforcement agencies of critical resources is not the way to achieve it. In my home district in the Hudson Valley, COPS investments have assisted local police departments hire 13 police officers who are currently serving in Middletown, Newburgh and Poughkeepsie. For businesses, families and communities throughout my Congressional District this means more cops on the beat and a decrease in violent crimes. But the benefits of the COPS office are not just felt in the 18th Congressional District of New York; they are evident across the country and date back more than 25 years. The COPS office has been an instrumental partner in helping local law enforcement address the changing world of policing, and the impact of reducing its budget or eliminating its services would be significantly felt throughout the country. For these reasons, I implore you to reconsider the proposal released by your Transition Team and remain committed to backing the badge. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
02.09.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Senate confirmed President Trump’s nominee for Attorney General, Jeff Sessions. “Jeff Sessions came up in the 1950s Jim Crow south and that’s the kind of belief system he wants to bring to the highest law enforcement office in the country. Mr. Sessions has repeatedly gone after the LGBTQ community and people of color and I have no faith in his ability to do his job fairly and in the interest of all Americans. “I am disappointed by my Republican colleagues for rubberstamping his nomination. Jeff Sessions thinks it’s ok to fire people like me or my husband or even refuse our kids childcare simply because our family looks a little bit different than most families – you better believe I will be watching him like a hawk to make sure he upholds the Constitution and protects the rights of all Americans.”
02.08.2017	Equal Justice Under Law Act would compel local courts to address the indigent defense crisis Gideon Act would improve legal representation in Supreme Court cases WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) are renewing a bicameral effort to fix America’s strained public defender system from local courts all the way to the Supreme Court. Booker and Maloney re-introduced two legislative initiatives that seek to ensure America’s judicial institutions are living up to the Constitution’s guarantee of a right to counsel. The Equal Justice Under Law Act would empower indigent criminal defendants to take action against states and localities that systematically fail to provide effective assistance of counsel in felony cases. The Gideon Act would establish a federal corporation dedicated to delivering independent, uniform, and quality defense representation in criminal cases before the United States Supreme Court and, at times, in the highest courts in the states. “Decades after the Supreme Court reaffirmed the constitutional right of every American to an attorney in a criminal case, public defenders are still juggling hundreds of cases and defendants are still meeting their lawyers only minutes before entering a guilty plea,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our criminal justice system is broken, and that disproportionately hurts minority communities and poor Americans. Our legislation would give indigent defendants the tools they need to secure their right to effective counsel before it is too late – giving all Americans, regardless of the size of their paycheck, equal justice under the law.” Sen. Booker said, “The right to counsel is guaranteed to all Americans by the Constitution. But all too often, our broken justice system falls short. Our legislation seeks to fill in the glaring gaps that have left too many Americans vulnerable and without adequate legal representation from the lowest levels of our judicial system all the way to the Supreme Court. We must better balance the scales of justice so that we can truly be a nation of liberty and justice for all.” “While a practicing attorney, I gained the highest level of respect for our public defenders. Overworked and underpaid, they take on the toughest cases to ensure that even the most vulnerable of defendants have a determined advocate before our courts. However, our system is not without its flaws. I am proud to support these two bills, which would go a long way in strengthening the indigent defense systems from the smallest of local courts to the highest court in the land,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings, original co-sponsor of both bills. In the landmark decision Gideon v. Wainwright, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the Sixth Amendment guarantees every criminal defendant in a felony case the right to a lawyer. That decision reinforced the ideal that equal justice under law for all people is a fundamental component of our criminal justice system. But Gideon’s promise of equal justice remains unfulfilled in states and localities across the country, where the public defender system is often woefully underfunded and overburdened. According to a 2012 Brennan Center report, there are counties and states in America where public defenders are responsible more than 300 cases at one time. Seventy-five percent of county-funded public defender offices have caseloads that exceed recommended standards. As a result, public defenders are often unable to provide the accused with their right to meaningful and effective assistance of counsel. These inequities extend to the Supreme Court. Over fifty years after Gideon, the federal government has yet to create an entity dedicated to furnishing legal counsel for criminal defendants in Supreme Court cases. Rather, the job is done almost wholly by private individuals who volunteer their services or public defenders who often have never argued before the High Court. The Constitution Project, the American Bar Association, National Legal Aid & Defender Association, American Council of Chief Defenders, and National Association for Public Defense have expressed support for the Equal Justice Under Law Act and the Gideon Act. The ACLU and National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers have endorsed the Equal Justice Under the Law Act.
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 7, 2017)—Today, Reps. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Mia Love (R-UT), Raúl Labrador (R-ID), John Conyers (D-MI), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), and Karen Bass (D-CA) introduced the Maintaining dignity and Eliminating unnecessary Restrictive Confinement of Youths Act of 2017 (MERCY Act). The MERCY Act would prohibit the solitary confinement of juveniles who are tried in the federal system and held in pretrial facilities or juvenile detention facilities, barring some extremely exceptional temporary circumstances. Sens. Cory Booker (D-NJ), Rand Paul (R-KY), Mike Lee (R-UT), James Lankford (R-OK), Richard Durbin (D-IL), and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the bill in the Senate. “Our criminal justice system is broken, especially when it comes to how we approach juvenile offenders – focusing on retribution instead of rehabilitation,” said Maloney, original co-sponsor of the MERCY Act. “Holding children and adolescents in solitary confinement is barbaric, detrimental to their health and can be extremely harmful to their development both mentally and physically. The MERCY Act takes an important step towards breaking the cycle of incarceration and gives young offenders the opportunity to become contributing members of our schools and community after they have served their time.” “When our youth are incarcerated, they are often already forced to reckon with the stark reality of the consequences of their actions—such as being separated from their friends and family and grappling with uncertain futures,” Cummings said. “Compounding incarceration with solitary confinement can break a young person’s spirt beyond repair, and it can have devastating long-term impacts on their mental and physical health. The MERCY Act will take a strong step toward eliminating this barbaric practice, so that we can ensure our youth have a chance to be rehabilitated and become contributing members of their communities.” “Our corrections system should not just administer justice but also aim to rehabilitate – not create new or exacerbate existing problems,” Love said. “Unfortunately, extended solitary confinement is linked to a host of long-term psychological issues. By ending its long-term use, this legislation preserves the dignity of individuals and protects their mental health. I am proud to join with my colleagues in introducing this legislation and look forward to helping move these reforms forward.” Labrador said, “Reforming our criminal justice system demands a focus on long-term outcomes. Solitary confinement of juveniles presents serious risk to the mental and physical health of young offenders who will return to our communities. We must ensure that incarceration practices don’t hinder their development as we work to set them on a path to become responsible, law-abiding members of society.” Conyers said, “We must reinforce actions taken by President Obama last year with respect to solitary confinement of juveniles in the federal system by enacting legislation to address this serious issue. As he noted, solitary confinement has the potential to lead to devastating, lasting psychological consequences, and this is particularly so with respect to juveniles. Over time, we have come to recognize these negative impacts and it is time that Congress act. Pursuing smarter strategies for dealing with challenges posed by individual prisoners, especially juveniles, will lead to more effective prison administration, a reduction in recidivism, and safer communities. ” “I am glad to see meaningful criminal justice reform incorporate the valuable insights offered by the MERCY Act in the pursuit of policy change to remedy the inhumane and harsh treatment suffered by juveniles and youth involved in our justice system,” Jackson Lee said. “I am delighted to be an original co-sponsor of this critical legislation and much needed effort to alleviate the cruel, brutal and inhumane conditions of confinement that prevent adolescent rehabilitation and participation in reentry programming. As I have often stated in the past, ‘meaningful criminal justice reform must look at all the ways the system touches the lives of our young people and communities and recognize that restoring their vulnerable population requires trauma-informed and age appropriate care. This legislation is step toward catapulting this nation into action on criminal and juvenile justice reform.” “The MERCY Act rightly calls attention to the need for smart reform and trauma-informed care for all justice-involved youth and is a necessary piece of legislation that aims to eliminate harmful and dangerous confinement practices for this vulnerable population. It is time we start addressing the underlying issues of trauma and abuse, as well as the emotionally damaging triggers of adolescent behaviors in a humane and medically informed way. The bottom line here is that cruel and inhumane conditions of confinement for youth in America must stop,” Bass said. The solitary confinement of young people is a serious and widespread problem in the United States. Each day, in jails and prisons across America, youth under the age of 18 are held in solitary confinement often for weeks or months at a time. In 2011 alone, more than 95,000 youth were held in prisons and jails, and a significant number were held in solitary confinement. In 2013, the Department of Justice found that 47 percent of juvenile detention centers locked youth in solitary confinement for more than four hours at a time, and some held youth for up to 23 hours a day with no human interaction. When subjected to solitary confinement, adolescents are often denied access to treatment and programming that would meet their psychological, developmental, and rehabilitative needs. Because youths are still developing, solitary confinement often seriously harms their mental and physical health, as well as their development. The Maintaining dignity and Eliminating unnecessary Restrictive Confinement of Youths Act (MERCY Act): Bans Juvenile Solitary Confinement. The MERCY Act bans the use of “room confinement” in juvenile facilities, except as a temporary response to a behavioral issue that poses serious and immediate risk to any individual. Requires Use of Less Restrictive Techniques. The bill ensures that before a juvenile is placed in room confinement, the staff member must use less restrictive techniques, including de-escalation techniques or discussions with a qualified mental health professional. Encourages Transparency. The bill mandates that the juvenile be informed of why the room confinement placement occurred and that release will occur upon regaining self-control or after a certain period of time in solitary confinement. It also requires that the juvenile’s attorney and parents be notified when certain actions are taken. Places Time Limits on Usage of Confinement. The MERCY Act limits solitary confinement on juveniles that pose a risk of harming others to no more than 3 hours and to juveniles who pose a risk of harm to themselves to no more than half an hour. It requires that juveniles be removed from room confinement once the risk of harm subsides. Sets Minimum Conditions of Confinement. The bill ensures that the room used for room confinement in exceptional circumstances have adequate space, lighting, heating, cooling, ventilation, and access to water, toilet facilities, and hygiene supplies. Requires Post-Confinement Services. After the maximum period of confinement, the bill mandates that juveniles be transferred to a facility where services can be provided. Requires an Analysis. The MERCY Act requires that the Attorney General submit a detailed report to Congress on uses of force, restraints, and room confinement for juveniles.
02.07.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Senate confirmed President Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, on a narrow vote of 51-50. “Betsy DeVos has no idea what she’s talking about and has no business running our country's education policy. Her confirmation hearings were some of the most embarrassing I’ve ever seen and prove she didn’t even google the Department of Education before setting foot in the Senate. “Our teachers have to be highly qualified to educate our kids, and I think our top education official should be too. I have two girls in public school, so you can bet I will keep my eye on Secretary DeVos and the rest of the administration to make sure all our kids have the chance to get a great education.” ###
02.03.2017	Washington – After the White House released a Holocaust Remembrance Day Statement, which conspicuously omitted the largest group that suffered from the Holocaust, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined his colleagues to sign on to a resolution affirming the fact that the Holocaust targeted Jews. “Six million innocent Jewish people were murdered during the Holocaust. Six million. Failing to mention them is not an accident – it’s clumsy and it’s offensive and we need to set the record straight. We must always remember the terrible persecution of innocent people because of their faith and make sure it never happens again,” said Rep. Maloney. This resolution, led by Congressman Joe Crowley, would, “reiterate the indisputable fact that the Nazi regime targeted the Jewish people in its perpetration of the Holocaust and calling on every entity in the executive branch to affirm that fact.” The full text of the resolution can be found here.
02.01.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement commemorating Black History Month, which is celebrated during the month of February. “Throughout our history, Black Americans have played a key role in the development of our nation. The many contributions to the arts, economy, sciences, civil liberties, and justices have not only helped shape America, but have provided us with diverse perspectives that make our nation even stronger. Throughout the month of February, we celebrate those accomplishments by acknowledging the sacrifices African Americans have made throughout history and highlighting the important contributions that are made daily. “Black History Month gives us the opportunity to revisit the rich history of the African American culture while understanding the need to move forward by forging a path that is inclusive. I encourage my neighbors in the Hudson Valley to make a commitment to learning about the unsung heroes of our country’s African American communities and be mindful that Black History is American History and should be celebrated not only during February, but every day.”
02.01.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to replace Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court: “I oppose Judge Gorsuch’s nomination to the Supreme Court. I have deep concerns about his willingness to excuse discrimination under the guise of religion freedom and what it would mean for women, minorities and families like mine.”
01.31.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced he would not roll back President Barack Obama’s 2014 Executive Order, which bans LGBTQ discrimination in federal contracting. “I want to applaud the President for keeping the executive orders in place. It’s good he didn’t overturn basic workplace fairness at companies seeking taxpayer dollars. But the real test is whether he excuses the same discrimination under the guise of ‘religious freedom.’ We’ll be watching,” said Rep. Maloney. In November 2016, Rep. Maloney succeeded in removing a hateful anti-LGBTQ provision, known as the Russell Amendment, from the final National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report. The controversial Russell Amendment, added to the NDAA during committee markup by the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), would have rolled back a critical 2014 executive order by President Barack Obama on employment discrimination, which would effectively allow federal contractors to fire employees solely based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. Earlier that year, after the Russell Amendment had been included in the NDAA, Rep. Maloney introduced a procedural motion on the House Floor to remove the hateful language from the bill. After his measure was defeated, NDAA passed the House with the discriminatory language included. The next day, Rep. Maloney introduced an amendment to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (MilCon-VA) to prevent taxpayer dollars from going to Military and Veterans Affairs contractors that discriminate against employees on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Although the Maloney Amendment initially had sufficient votes to pass, Republican leadership rigged the vote by holding the vote period open, even after time expired. Republican leadership then convinced seven Republicans, who had initially supported the amendment, to switch their votes and the amendment ultimately failed. Days later, Maloney introduced the Maloney Amendment to the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, which would specifically prevent contractors paid by funds allocated for energy and water projects from discriminating against employees based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. After the “switching seven” received criticism for their changed votes on NDAA, the Maloney Amendment to the energy and water bill passed with 43 Republican votes. In response to the Maloney Amendment’s passage as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, Speaker Paul Ryan abandoned regular order and closed the amendment process for subsequent appropriations bills. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
01.30.2017	Washington — After President Donald Trump signed an executive order on refugees, also known as the “Muslim ban,” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined over 160 House Democrats in introducing the Statue of Liberty Values Act (SOLVE), which would defund and effectively end implementation of the executive order. “President Trump went on and on for a year about creating a Muslim ban, and that’s all this is. Stopping terrorists from coming to our country is a great idea, but that’s not what this does. It hurts the guys who helped us in Iraq and innocent people who just want to be reunited with their families. This whole mess shows me that Trump is winging it.”
01.29.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s executive order on refugees: “If the President wants to keep out dangerous terrorists, I’m all for it, but shutting out people for their faith and guys who risked their lives fighting with us in Iraq is clumsy and stupid and shows Trump is just winging it. You don’t need to hurt innocent people to keep us safe. "
01.19.2017	Reps Say Top Brass At DOD Must Intervene By Ordering Air Force To Install Filtration System, At No Cost To Newburgh; “While a Full Investigation is Ongoing, We should Take Common Sense Action Today to Prevent Further Contamination,” Say Reps Reps To DOD: Take Remedial Action Now to Prevent Known PFOS Source from Further Contaminating Newburgh Waterways U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney today urged the U.S. Department of Defense to order the Air National Guard to immediately install carbon filtration units at the site of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) contamination at the Stewart Air National Guard Base in order to halt the continued discharge of contaminated water into Silver Stream. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney are continuing their effort to hold the Air National Guard and DOD accountable by requesting they install mobile filtration technology at the outlet of Recreation Pond and other identified PFOS-hot spots while the larger investigation is ongoing. Following the identification of PFOS hot spots, like Recreation Pond, Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney are demanding that the Air National Guard immediately implement carbon filtration units at the PFOS-contamination spots identified by DEC on base as a vital interim remedial measure to prevent the spread and flow of contaminated water from the base’s storm water infrastructure to Silver Stream, Washington Lake, Moodna Creek and elsewhere. “My message to DOD is crystal clear: you need to immediately install a water filtration system to de-contaminate the known PFOS-hot spots on the base before the spill off further contaminates Newburgh’s downstream waterways. And you need to do it now, at no cost to the City of Newburgh,” said Senator Schumer. “It is good that the DOD is implementing a full plan to identify and clean-up PFOS contamination, but it makes no sense at all to wait until that plan is completed later this fall when we know right now where the contamination is, and we know how to remove the toxic PFOS from the water before the contamination further spreads. We can’t hide behind process when the public health is under threat.” “It is critical that we stop the contamination of Newburgh’s waterways as soon as possible and ensure that aggressive steps are taken to protect the water that local residents rely on,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We must also work to get a full picture of the damage and create a long-term plan to remediate this environmental and public health crisis as soon as possible.” "It's been nine months since we asked DOD to clean up the mess they're responsible for making at Stewart - a mess which threatens the drinking water for thousands of my neighbors in Newburgh," said U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney. "New York State DEC has confirmed that Stewart is the source of the contamination - and it's time for DOD to get their act together and come up with a solution that doesn't force the innocent people of Newburgh to shoulder this burden - we needed this done months ago." Previously Schumer and Gillibrand and Maloney called for a full investigation into the PFOS contamination. Last year, before the U.S. Senate adjourned for congressional recess in July, Schumer introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that required the Department of Defense (DOD) to launch an investigation to determine the extent of possible ground water contamination in the City of Newburgh. However, very few amendments were included in the final version of the NDAA. Undeterred, Schumer vowed to keep fighting for Newburgh and introduced stand-alone bill to ensure residents are neither left footing the cost of this cleanup effort, nor suffering the consequences from the contamination of Washington Lake. In addition to the legislation Schumer introduced, he has made several phone calls and wrote several letters to the Department of Defense. Most recently Schumer and Gillibrand sent a letter to Lieutenant General L. Scott Rice, director of the Air National Guard to immediately release an expedited timeline for the identification and clean-up of any and all PFOS pollution. In May of 2016 Schumer called on the DOD to look into the extent of possible ground water contamination in the City of Newburgh. Additionally, last spring Schumer lead a delegation letter, calling on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately provide testing and planning assistance to the City of Newburgh. A copy of the joint letter to Assistant Secretary Ballentine appears at this link or below: Miranda Ballentine Assistant Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Asst. Secretary Ballentine: We are writing you on behalf of the thousands of families we represent in Newburgh, New York who for years have been exposed to contaminated drinking water. We are specifically requesting that the Department of Defense install mobile filtration technology at Stewart Air National Guard Base in order to immediately protect downstream waters from further PFOS contamination. As you know, testing conducted by the New York Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) last summer found unacceptably high levels of PFOA and PFOS contaminants in the drinking water supply of Newburgh, New York. DEC test results from March 2016 showed that the water supply contamination likely came from the release of aqueous-forming foam (AFFF) from Stewart. The base has since been declared an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2). We are aware of the ongoing site investigation being conducted by the Air Force, and we recognize that responsibility for the larger cleanup plan will require cooperation among all responsible parties. Our constituents deserve access to clean water and an assurance that we are doing all we can to stop the continuing flow of PFOS-tainted water into the drinking supply. Therefore we are asking the Department of Defense to move swiftly and take the interim remedial measure of installing mobile filtration technology at the outlet of Recreation Pond at Stewart Air National Guard Base in order to minimize the ongoing environmental impact while a cleanup plan is constructed. We look forward to your response and to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely, Charles E. Schumer United States Senator Democratic Leader Kirsten Gillibrand United States Senator Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
01.16.2017	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement today in recognition of Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s life and legacy are an inspiration to all Americans – regardless of the color of their skin – who have ever felt like the deck is stacked against them. I think this year’s observation is especially important. During a time of great uncertainty and unrest, it’s essential for us to remember Dr. King’s approach to fighting for equality and providing hope for the promise of a more inclusive and fair-minded country for all Americans. “We must honor Dr. King by marching in his footsteps towards freedom – improving access to opportunity and guaranteeing basic civil liberties to each and every American. His journey taught us the road to equality may be long and bumpy but by walking together we will always find a pathway towards progress.”
01.13.2017	Newburgh, NY – To honor our veterans and inspire civic engagement, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his third Annual “Valentines for Our Veterans” initiative and encouraged his neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to join him in making Valentine’s Day cards to send to our veterans. This program provides schools, families and individuals in the Hudson Valley with the opportunity to send Valentine’s Day greetings to veterans who served and sacrificed to protect our freedom. The cards will be delivered to veterans at the VA Hudson Valley Health Care Facility at Castle Point. “In addition to passing critical legislation and cutting through red tape to get our veterans the services they earned, it is perhaps most rewarding to meet and visit our veterans – bringing with me handmade cards from hundreds of their neighbors thanking them for their service,” said Rep. Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “Valentines for Our Veterans” is a great opportunity to make that connection and show our support for those who sacrificed to keep us safe – I hope everyone will consider participating.” Interested schools or participants should contact Rep. Maloney’s office at (845) 561-1259. Valentines may be mailed to or dropped off at his Newburgh District Office by 5:00 PM on Friday, February 10th. Click here for the invitation.
01.10.2017	Washington — On the first day of Senator Jeff Sessions confirmation hearing for United States Attorney General, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called for the rejection of his nomination due to his dangerous record on civil rights and LGBT protections. “The Senate cannot confirm an Attorney General nominee who doesn’t believe in civil rights to oversee our country’s civil rights protections – it’s worse than letting a fox guard the henhouse,” said LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Maloney. “Jeff Sessions thinks it’s ok to fire people like me or my husband or even refuse our kids childcare simply because our family looks a little bit different than most families – and we can’t allow someone with those beliefs to be our nation’s highest attorney, charged with protecting the rights of all Americans.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
01.10.2017	Worked with Cuomo, Local Officials to Accelerate Construction Funding Made Possible through Federal Highway Transportation Bill Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) praised Governor Andrew Cuomo for announcing the accelerated construction of the Woodbury I-87 Interchange at Exit 131 during the 2017 State of the State in Westchester County. Last year, after ensuring the necessary federal funding was included in the 2015 Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and local officials celebrated the 2016-17 New York State budget investment in the rehabilitation of the Woodbury I-87 Interchange at Exit 131. Previously set to begin construction in 2018, construction will now begin this year. “Anyone who drives through southern Orange County knows what it’s like to sit in endless traffic around Woodbury Common, which is why fixing this problem has been my top transportation priority since day one – that means beginning construction as soon as possible,” said Rep. Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “I want to thank Governor Cuomo for working together - from securing billions in federal transportation funding to prioritizing local projects at the state level - to get the ball rolling faster on this critical project. Smart, responsible investments in our infrastructure make us safer, create good-paying jobs, and grow our economy – it’s really a no-brainer.” Since 2013, Rep. Maloney has worked closely with U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, Governor Cuomo, New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) Commissioners Joan McDonald and Matthew Driscoll, Senator Bill Larkin, Assemblyman James Skoufis, local and business leaders, and senior administration officials, including dozens of meetings, phone calls and letters, in an effort to secure funding for the Woodbury I-87 interchange in Orange County. Immediately after taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney met with then-NYSDOT Commissioner Joan McDonald regarding the Woodbury I-87 interchange, and wrote a letter in support of a competitive Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant application for funding the project. Later that year, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx articulating the top transportation priorities for the 18th congressional district, indicating the Woodbury I-87 interchange as the top priority project. In February 2014, Rep. Maloney sent a memorandum to Larry Schwartz, then-Secretary to Governor Cuomo listing the Woodbury I-87 interchange as a top priority. Then in March 2014, Rep. Maloney again met with Commissioner McDonald and in August of that year, Rep. Maloney once again wrote the Commissioner highlighting the Woodbury I-87 interchange as the top transportation priority in the Hudson Valley. In May 2015, Rep. Maloney met with William Mulrow, Secretary to Governor Cuomo and submitted a memorandum stating that, “the Exit 131 interchange improvement is the most critical transportation project in the Hudson Valley.” Following dozens of meetings, phone calls, and letters, including a meeting on February 24, 2016 with current NYSDOT Commissioner Matthew Driscoll, Rep. Maloney led more than 45 government, business, and community leaders urging Governor Cuomo and NYSDOT to include Woodbury I-87 interchange in the 2016-17 New York State budget agreement.
01.09.2017	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after four Israeli soldiers were killed and over a dozen were injured in a terrorist attack in Jerusalem on Sunday, January 8th. “I am horrified by this most recent terrorist attack in Jerusalem, which claimed the lives of four brave Israeli soldiers. These attacks are a threat to all of us and only serve to further aggravate tensions in an already tense time. “Israel is one of our closest friends and allies - working together we will defeat ISIS and all other terrorist elements.”
01.06.2017	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after reports that New York State and Entergy have come to an agreement that includes shutting down Indian Point nuclear plant by April 2021. “Since day one, I’ve supported responsibly phasing out operations at Indian Point – that means preserving jobs for workers and providing a reliable energy source that keeps prices low for Hudson Valley families. I greatly appreciate Governor Cuomo and Entergy working together to wind down operations at Indian Point, especially after so many safety issues in recent years – from faulty baffle bolts to contaminated water leaks – have shown it is simply too dangerous to continue operating. “But let me be clear – this agreement must include concrete plans to protect the jobs of hundreds of New Yorkers and keep energy prices low for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley. We can balance safety concerns with the security of local jobs and low energy bills and I will continue working with New York State to ensure the burden of shutting down Indian Point isn’t placed on the backs of hardworking folks in the Hudson Valley.”
01.06.2017	Maloney Led NY Congressional Delegation Letter of Support Washington - Following nearly a year of advocacy by Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr., the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has announced the selection of New York State to participate in a nationwide pilot program to allow Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) participants to purchase their groceries online. Borough President Diaz and Rep. Maloney led the campaign in New York State to bring about this innovative change, which will allow consumers greater access to affordable groceries, help combat food deserts, promote healthier diet choices and create billions of dollars in new business opportunities. “Working hand-in-glove with Borough President Diaz, we delivered on our goal of bringing the SNAP program in New York State into the 21st century. This pilot will help make it easier and more efficient for New York families to put food on their tables. New York has always paved the way for new ideas and innovations – this pilot program is no different - and I want to thank my colleagues in Congress for joining us in bringing this program to New York,” said Rep. Maloney. “New York State has always led the way when it comes to innovation in government, and this pilot program will put our state at the intersection of health, technology and business. Allowing consumers to use their SNAP benefits in the same way you would also use a credit or debit card to purchase groceries will lead to lower prices and greater options for consumers in every corner of this city and state,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney and our New York delegation, our partners in business and the health and hunger advocates who understood the need for this pilot program and joined our efforts to bring this important new program to New York.” “Hunger Free America strongly supports increasing low income people’s access to affordable food. The new USDA online purchasing pilot program will enable low income people in both rural and urban communities, to have fresh affordable food delivered to their door, potentially in areas where fresh food had been previously unavailable to them,” said Joel Berg, CEO of Hunger Free America. “We hope to see this program expand to every state in America, so that no hungry person will have to travel long distances in order to get a fresh vegetable.” Rep. Maloney was integral in drumming up support for the pilot program in Congress. In November, Rep. Maloney led his colleagues in the New York State congressional delegation on a letter to Secretary Vilsack, in which they jointly called for New York’s selection in the pilot program. Borough President Diaz initially proposed such changes in his “State of the Borough” address in February 2016. In July 2016, Borough President Diaz participated in a conference on Capitol Hill to address the need for technological advancements for SNAP benefit users. The next month, the borough president authored a letter to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack urging his department to select New York State for this pilot program. As part of the pilot program, the USDA has selected two vendors—Amazon and FreshDirect—to serve customers in New York State. The USDA’s announcement can be read at https://bit.ly/2hVLxa8.
01.04.2017	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after a Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) train derailed at Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn, NY injuring dozens of people. “I am thankful that no one was killed after another dangerous train derailment, however dozens of New Yorkers were injured while simply going about their morning train commute. This is another in a string of dangerous reminders that we must invest in rail safety and improve our transportation systems nationwide. “While we don’t yet know why the train was traveling too fast or didn’t stop when it arrived at the station, we do know that one of the best ways to prevent train accidents is to install positive train control (PTC) on all our trains – the longer we fail to prioritize investing in rail safety technology, the more innocent lives we put in jeopardy. I want to thank Governor Cuomo for making PTC a priority - today’s incident shows that its implementation can’t come quick enough.” Rep. Maloney is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has been a leader on rail safety and investing in positive train control (PTC), a simple Wi-Fi and GPS technology that can stop or slow trains remotely. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 was signed into law, which requires passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify high-hazard curves, like those involved in the Spuyten Duyvil and Philadelphia train derailments, and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installing of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication. In March 2015, the House also passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads.
01.03.2017	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY18) was officially sworn into office as a member of the 115th Congress. Today, marks the beginning of Rep. Maloney’s third term serving as a representative for New York’s 18th Congressional District in the Hudson Valley. “It is an honor to serve our Hudson Valley veterans, businesses and hardworking families for another two years – working together we will continue fighting to create good paying jobs, protect Social Security and Medicare, and invest in our local infrastructure,” said Rep. Maloney. “In the last four years I built a record of results, passing 25 pieces of legislation into law and returning $6.3 million to local taxpayers, and I can’t wait to continue getting things done for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley and across New York.” In the 115th Congress, Rep. Maloney will continue serving as an integral member of both the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the House Committee on Agriculture. During the swearing in ceremony, Rep. Maloney was joined by his husband Randy Florke and their two daughters Daley and Essie. From left to right: Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, Randy Florke, Speaker Paul Ryan, Daley Maloney Florke, Essie Maloney Florke.
12.31.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement in response to reports that New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has commuted the sentence of Judith Clark, allowing her to seek parole in 2017: “I want to commend Governor Cuomo for commuting the sentence of Judith Clark, a living example of the rehabilitative potential of our criminal justice system. Clark has served over 30 years in prison, repeatedly demonstrated remorse for her participation in the Brink’s robbery, and endeavored to better herself by earning college degrees and leading educational and health initiatives to benefit her fellow inmates, prison staff and prison administration. “Our prisons should focus on effective methods for rehabilitation and reentry, which includes permitting parole for low-risk, elderly offenders who have materially demonstrated their reformation. Judith Clark deserved to spend many years in prison for her role as an accessory to the terrible crime that resulted in the death of two police officers and a security guard, but after nearly 35 years she has been punished and no longer poses a threat to our communities.”
12.22.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released his 2016 End-of-Term report, which highlights his legislative work, constituent services, and district events since joining Congress in 2013. Despite Washington gridlock, Rep. Maloney worked across the aisle to get things done and deliver results for his Hudson Valley neighbors in his second term. As recently as December, Rep. Maloney had two pieces of legislation signed into law by President Obama. After years of fighting to pass critical Lyme disease legislation into law, Rep. Maloney’s Tick-Borne Disease Research Transparency and Accountability bill was signed into law as part of the 21st Century Cures Act, which makes strategic investments in Lyme disease research. In addition, Rep. Maloney’s Dam Rehabilitation and Repair Act was signed into law as part of the Water Infrastructure Investment for the Nation (WIIN) Act, which establishes a federal investment program to allow states and local government to seek funding for the rehabilitation of high-hazard publicly-owned dams. Since joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney has continued delivering on his record of results for Hudson Valley veterans, hardworking families and small businesses. These accomplishments are a direct result of his willingness to find bipartisan solutions and his focus on getting things done for folks in the Hudson Valley. These include: 25 pieces of legislation signed into law 35 bills and amendments passed the House $6.3 million returned to taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, and tax refunds, including over $3 million in veterans benefits Over 3,800 individuals assisted with cases involving Social Security, Medicare, IRS, and the Veterans Administration, including 800 veterans 60 “Speak with Sean” in-person town halls and neighborhood office hours 30 telephone and online town halls with thousands of constituents Nearly $100 million in federal grants and investments for the Hudson Valley You can download a full copy of Rep. Maloney’s detailed 2016 End-of-Term Report here.
12.20.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after serving as a pallbearer and attending the funeral services for former Congressman Ben Gilman, who passed away on Saturday, December 17th. Ben Gilman was a World War II veteran who represented the Hudson Valley in Congress for thirty years. "Ben Gilman is an American hero who flew 35 missions over Japan during World War II, became a warrior for his neighbors in Congress, and still earned the nickname 'Gentle Ben' for his remarkable humility. He set the gold standard for effectiveness over his long and distinguished service in Congress. His example reminds us of what we once admired in our government - smart, dedicated men like Ben Gilman seeking to make a difference. Not a week goes by that someone doesn't say to me, "Try to be like Ben Gilman; he was one of the good ones." “I am honored that Ben’s wife Georgia and his children asked me to participate in celebrating the life of such a remarkable man. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and our Hudson Valley community during this time.” Rep. Maloney attended the visitation and funeral services at Temple Sinai in Middletown on Tuesday, December 20th, where he served as a pallbearer. Rep. Maloney is also set to attend the private burial at West Point Cemetery following the services.
12.08.2016	Washington – Following a year of intense flooding throughout the country, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced the passage of his Dam Rehabilitation and Repair Act as part of the Water Infrastructure Investment for the Nation (WIIN) Act. The bill will establish a federal investment program to allow states and local governments to seek funding for the rehabilitation of high-hazard publicly-owned dams. The federal government will invest $445 million over ten years, providing 65% of funding, while state and local jurisdictions will provide 35% of matching funds. “I am happy we passed another bill to invest in dam safety to protect my neighbors and local businesses, while creating good-paying jobs and stimulating our local economies. Nearly 100 dams in the Hudson Valley are considered high-hazard, and that’s pretty scary for families and businesses throughout our area,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “My bill will finally do something to help fix them.” Rep. Maloney’s Dam Rehabilitation and Repair Act was introduced in 2015, and would provide grant assistance to states to allow them to make critical safety upgrades and rehabilitate dams that fail to meet minimum safety standards. This program would only focus investments on the most critical publicly-owned dams across the country, with 2/3 of funds going to states with the highest number of high hazard dams. Last year, following the collapse of 14 dams in South Carolina, Maloney and representatives from the Association of Dam Safety Officials and the American Society of Civil Engineers pressed the House of Representatives to pass this critical legislation. Rep. Maloney also passed his Dam Safety Act of 2013 as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. This bill renewed the federal commitment to addressing the growing safety concerns caused by our nation’s aging dam infrastructure by reauthorizing the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP). The program provides grants to states to improve their dam safety programs through inspection, training, technical assistance, and research. Multiple states have used the grant funds to develop Graphic Information Systems (GIS) to identify the locations of their dams and map the areas below the dams that would flood in the event of a failure, which is useful in developing evacuation planning. States like New York rely on the National Dam Safety Program to support their own dam safety programs. New York State has the 8th most high hazard dams in the country totaling 403, with nearly 100 of those dams in the Hudson Valley. The average age of America’s over 84,000 dams is 52 years old, but in New York State, the average age is 69 years old. At the time that many of these dams were constructed they were low-hazard dams, which were protecting relatively undeveloped areas. Since that time, America’s population has grown and many of these areas have become increasingly developed. America’s dams continue to age and the number of high-hazard dams, where the loss of life is probable in the event of dam failure, is increasing.
12.07.2016	Washington – After successfully pressing the Coast Guard to extend the public comment period for proposed Hudson River anchorage sites until December 7th, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney submitted 404 comments from local residents to the U.S. Coast Guard. In September, Rep. Maloney asked Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to the proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston. “It’s critical that my neighbors have the opportunity to make their voices heard regarding the Coast Guard’s proposal to install new anchorage sites on the Hudson River – before the final deadline I submitted more than 400 comments on behalf of folks in the Hudson Valley. If the Coast Guard decides to move forward with this disastrous proposal there will be additional opportunities to make your opinion known on this important matter – and I urge my friends and neighbors to keep sharing your comments - the health of our river and our communities depends on it,” said Rep. Maloney. In June, the U.S. Coast Guard announced advanced notice of a proposed rulemaking which, if conducted, could result in the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River for large commercial ships travelling from up-river to the port of New York. The anchorage sites would provide these ships a location to drop anchor before continuing on to the port. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and public hearings before the proposal can advance, and sent his own letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. In August, Representative Maloney, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and fellow Representatives Lowey and Engel, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period. In September, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. In October, Maloney introduced the Hudson River Protection Act to prohibit the Coast Guard from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, nuclear power plant, a site on the National Register of Historic Places, or critical habitats for endangered species. These requirements would effectively prevent the Coast Guard from officially promulgating this proposed rule.
12.01.2016	Washington – After years of fighting to pass critical Lyme disease legislation into law, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that his bill passed the House of Representatives as part of the 21st Century Cures Act on a broad bipartisan vote of 392 to 26. In February 2015, Reps. Chris Gibson and Sean Patrick Maloney introduced The Tick-Borne Disease Research Transparency and Accountability Act to fight Lyme disease and other tick-borne illnesses. “The 21st Century Cures Act makes strategic investments in cancer research and fighting the heroin and opioid epidemic – it also includes my bill to invest in critical Lyme disease research,” said Rep. Maloney. “My neighbors in the Hudson Valley know how debilitating Lyme disease can be, and I’m proud that by working across the aisle with Congressman Chris Gibson we have passed the most important piece of Lyme disease legislation ever written – this is a real victory for the Hudson Valley.” The 21st Century Cures Act includes Reps. Gibson and Maloney’s provisions to create an interagency working group consisting of federal agencies and non-federal partners, including experienced Lyme physicians and patient advocates with a broad spectrum of scientific viewpoints. The working group is tasked with ensuring coordination among federal agencies like the NIH and CDC to maximize research priorities. The bill requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to consult with the working group to submit a strategic plan to Congress within three years that includes benchmarks to measure progress. The plan must include a proposal for improving outcomes of Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases, including progress related to chronic or persistent symptoms, infections and co-infections.
11.30.2016	In June, Speaker Ryan Abandoned Regular Order After Maloney Amendment Passed House Washington – Months after engaging in one of the most controversial floor fights in recent memory, Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair and National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Committee conferee Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he has succeeded in getting an anti-LGBT provision, known as the Russell Amendment, removed from the final NDAA conference report. The controversial Russell Amendment, added to the NDAA during committee markup by the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), would roll back a critical 2014 executive order by President Barack Obama on employment discrimination, which would effectively allow federal contractors to fire employees solely based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. After being named, as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, to serve on the conference committee of the House and Senate versions of the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Rep. Maloney sent a letter to President Obama requesting that he veto the defense bill if the provision was not removed by the conference committee. “The discriminatory Russell Amendment has nothing to do with fighting ISIS, protecting our troops, or keeping America safe – it’s really that simple,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud that months after introducing the Maloney Amendment to fight this hateful anti-LGBT language included in the defense bill, we were finally able to remove the discriminatory Russell Amendment from our defense bill. While this battle has been won the war is not over and I will continue fighting throughout the next Congress to ensure no taxpayer dollars are used to subsidize discrimination and hate.” In May, after the Russell Amendment was included in the NDAA, Rep. Maloney introduced a procedural motion on the House Floor to remove the hateful language from the bill. After his measure was defeated, NDAA passed the House with the discriminatory language included. The next day, Rep. Maloney introduced an amendment to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (MilCon-VA) to prevent taxpayer dollars from going to Military and Veterans Affairs contractors that discriminate against employees on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Although the Maloney Amendment initially had sufficient votes to pass, Republican leadership rigged the vote by holding the vote period open, even after time expired. Republican leadership then convinced seven Republicans, who had initially supported the amendment, to switch their votes and the amendment ultimately failed. Days later, Maloney introduced the Maloney Amendment to the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, which would specifically prevent contractors paid by funds allocated for energy and water projects from discriminating against employees based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. After the “switching seven” received criticism for their changed votes on NDAA, the Maloney Amendment to the energy and water bill passed with 43 Republican votes. In response to the Maloney Amendment’s passage as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, Speaker Paul Ryan abandoned regular order and closed the amendment process for subsequent appropriations bills. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
11.29.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation (RESPONSE) Act. Rep. Maloney is an original cosponsor of the House version of the RESPONSE Act, which was introduced in March 2015: “My neighbors in the Hudson Valley have seen firsthand the damage and destruction done by train derailments and other accidents. This legislation, which unanimously passed the House, will make sure our communities and first responders have the training and preparation necessary to handle potential oil train derailments and hazardous materials. “As we continue to expand our domestic energy production, it’s essential that we also modernize our safety procedures to ensure that communities of all sizes have the ability to effectively respond to potential accidents. Moving forward, I will continue to seek out opportunities to work alongside my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to keep our communities safe by making responsible investments in our infrastructure and our first responders.”
10.31.2016	Washington – Months after engaging in one of the most controversial floor fights in recent memory, Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chair and National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Committee Conferee Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) sent a letter to the President requesting that he veto the defense bill if an anti-LGBT provision is not removed by the Conference Committee. The controversial Russell Amendment, added to the NDAA during committee markup by the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), would roll back a critical 2014 executive order by President Barack Obama on employment discrimination, which would effectively allow federal contractors to fire employees solely based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. “The discriminatory Russell Amendment has nothing to do with fighting ISIS, protecting our troops, or keeping America safe – it’s really that simple,” said Rep. Maloney. “Taxpayer dollars should not be used to subsidize discrimination and I urge the White House to veto this anti-LGBT legislation unless Senator John McCain removes this completely irrelevant provision from the defense bill.” After the Russell Amendment was included in the NDAA, Rep. Maloney introduced a procedural motion on the House Floor to remove the hateful language from the bill. After his measure was defeated, NDAA passed the House with the discriminatory language included. The next day, Maloney introduced an amendment to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (MilCon-VA) to prevent taxpayer dollars from going to Military and Veterans Affairs contractors that discriminate against employees on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Although the Maloney Amendment initially had sufficient votes to pass, Republican leadership rigged the vote by holding the vote period open, even after time expired. Republican leadership then convinced seven Republicans, who had initially supported the amendment, to switch their votes and the amendment ultimately failed. Days later, Maloney introduced the Maloney Amendment to the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, which would specifically prevent contractors paid by funds allocated for energy and water projects from discriminating against employees based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. After the “switching seven” received criticism for their changed votes on NDAA, the Maloney amendment to the energy and water bill passed with 43 Republican votes. In response to the Maloney Amendment’s passage as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, Speaker Paul Ryan abandoned regular order and closed the amendment process for subsequent appropriations bills.
10.30.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after reports that two women were shot and killed at a Halloween party in Newburgh on Sunday, October 30th. "My thoughts and prayers go out to these young women, their families and loved ones, and to the residents of the City of Newburgh. Folks deserve to feel safe in their homes and trick-or-treating in their neighborhoods on Halloween, yet once again we are left praying for those who had their whole lives ahead of them but have been robbed of their future because of senseless shootings. Enough is enough - the gun violence in our city must end. "As always, I will continue working side-by-side with the heroes of the Newburgh Police Department, our community leaders, and Newburgh residents to stop these shootings and keep our neighborhoods safe. I urge anyone with information on this terrible crime to immediately contact the Police Department at 845-561-3131."
10.15.2016	Newburgh, NY – In the final days of National Hispanic Heritage Month, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced a $100,000 investment through the Economic Development Agency’s (EDA) Local Technical Assistance program to provide training, technical assistance, and mentoring to assist Hispanic and Latino entrepreneurs and business owners start or grow their businesses. This investment will fund the first phase of economic development technical assistance for Hispanic and Latino small business owners and entrepreneurs. “The Hudson Valley is home to a rich patchwork of residents, including many leaders and business owners from the Hispanic and Latino community,” said Rep. Maloney. “This investment will help our entrepreneurs and small business owners make our region more competitive, grow our local economy and create jobs.” “Pattern for Progress is pleased to have been awarded these funds to support and advance entrepreneurs and small businesses in the Hudson Valley,” said Joe Czajka, Senior Vice President of Pattern for Progress. “With such a strong demographic shift in the Hispanic and Latino population in our urban centers, we are particularly excited to examine local issues and establish new strategies to create new businesses.” In May, Rep. Maloney sent a letter of support to Assistant Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development Jay Williams, requesting that the EDA approve the investment. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov. Since joining Congress, Sean Patrick Maloney has secured millons in federal investments in the Hudson Valley. Click here for more information.
10.11.2016	Newburgh, NY - Weeks after announcing the launch of a biomonitoring program to test Newburgh residents for the contaminant perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), which was found in the Newburgh water supply, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced the introduction of two bills to improve and expand testing and research for possible contamination of water supplies. The Investing in Testing Act authorizes $15 million for a two year study by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to determine the health impact of PFOS contamination in drinking water, and The Clean Water Healthy Communities Act would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to test unregulated contaminants in communities with fewer than 10,000 people. The current EPA requirement for testing only applies to communities with more than 10,000 residents. “It doesn’t matter if you live in a big city or a small town – everyone deserves safe drinking water and the right to know what health effects they could experience if their water is contaminated,” said Rep. Maloney. “The biomonitoring program in Newburgh is an important first step in determining the extent of contamination, but once we have that data, we need to understand the long-term health effects of that contamination – and how to respond.” "As the city of Newburgh goes, so goes the nation in terms of PFOS science, and the support of Congressman Maloney will go a long way to further align the resources of the federal, local, and state governments," said Newburgh City Manager Michael Ciaravino. "We view this as an important first step and we can't thank the Congressman enough." "I want to thank Congressman Maloney for responding to this emergency," said Orange County Legislator Chris Eachus. "These two pieces of legislation will actually address this problem right here in our community." Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water supply, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source without placing the financial burden on the City. After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’s request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” On September 20, Maloney and state officials announced the launch of a biomonitoring program for Newburgh. On May 19, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the EPA calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan.
10.08.2016	Has Also Passed Nine Bills to Help Veterans, Returned over $3 Million in Earned Benefits for over 800 Hudson Valley Veterans and their Families Beacon, NY – After waiting seventy years, the family of WWII Private Claude Walker was presented with the long-awaited Purple Heart Medal, Bronze Star Medal, and Soldier’s Medal by Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) to recognize Walker’s service and sacrifice. In addition, Rep. Maloney secured the Good Conduct Medal, American-Defense Service Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal w/1 Silver Service Star, World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII, and Marksman Badge w/Rifle Bar for the family of Claude Walker. “My father was nearly killed while serving our country on the U.S.S. Manchester and he taught me what it means to serve our country. None of our veterans or their families should have to wait seven decades to receive the medals they’ve earned – that’s why I am so proud to finally present Private Walker’s family with the medals he earned more than seventy years after being injured in World War II. I will always fight to ensure our veterans get the recognition they deserve for their brave sacrifice,” said Rep. Maloney. “Words will never be enough to thank our veterans, or their families, for their incredible sacrifices, but today we had an opportunity to recognize and honor a member of our nation’s Greatest Generation and ensure that his legacy lives on and inspires others throughout our community,” said State Senator Sue Serino. “These awards were a long time coming, and I thank Congressman Maloney for making them a reality for Claude Walker, and his children Shelley and Art.” “Without Representative Maloney my family never would have had this opportunity – and my children would never have had the chance to meet my father in a way that’s this special,” said Art Walker, son of Claude Walker. “I can’t thank Mr. Maloney enough for what he has done for our family.” Private Claude Walker joined the United States Army in 1941, and started basic training at Camp Upton on Long Island. Claude’s active service started on November 17, 1942 when he landed on a beach in North Africa with the 3rd Infantry Division. Following his involvement in the successful liberation of North Africa and Sicily, Claude made two more amphibious landings in Italy. In March 1945, Claude was shot in action during heavy fighting on the German border and was wounded, and received the Purple Heart as a result. Private Walker received the Bronze Star for meritorious achievement in 1945 for supporting the “Blood and Fire” Division’s relentless drive into Germany. In addition to the Bronze Star and Purple Heart, Rep. Maloney presented Walker with the Soldiers Medal for saving the life of another soldier who nearly drowned in Italy in 1944. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans despite Washington gridlock. Rep. Maloney has secured over 150 service medals and cut through red tape to return over $3 million in earned benefits to over 800 Hudson Valley veterans and their families. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act was signed into law to reform the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, the key employment program to help assist, train and find jobs for veterans who have compensable service-connected disabilities. In July, two of Rep. Maloney’s legislative proposals were included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 - ensuring disabled veterans receive specialized medical treatment and student loan forgiveness. The Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act will ensure greater cooperation between the Department of Education and the VA by establishing a system for transferring relevant information for veterans with 100-percent service-connected disabilities who have outstanding loans; the Appropriate Care for Disabled Veterans Act extends a mandate for the VA to report on its capacity for rehabilitating disabled veterans. In addition, Rep. Maloney’s Air Traffic Controller Hiring Improvement Act was signed into law this summer, which will improve the hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers and prioritize the hiring of veterans.
10.06.2016	Nationwide Borrowers Owe More Than $1.3 Trillion in Debt Poughkeepsie, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined local students, parents, administrators and advocates for a roundtable at Marist College to discuss skyrocketing student loan debt and making college more affordable for hardworking Hudson Valley families. Last year, the average New Yorker with college loans owed $32,200, which is roughly $3,500 higher than the national average – and nationwide student borrowers owe more than $1.3 trillion in debt. “My parents worked hard to send five kids to college on one middle class income, but today many parents struggle to send even one child to school on two incomes – we can do better,” said Rep. Maloney. “As a parent, I understand the struggle my neighbors are facing – crippling student loan debt, and the rising cost of a college education – that’s why I am working to refinance student loans and make college more affordable for Hudson Valley families.” "We appreciate Congressman Maloney coming to campus today to discuss the important topic of college affordability," said David Yellen, President of Marist College. "We are committed to making a quality Marist education more affordable and accessible, as demonstrated by our competitive tuition, high loan repayment rate, and increased scholarship support. More work needs to be done, and conversations like today's will be critical for all colleges working to expand access." "As a soon-to-be college graduate, student loans are and interest are scary things to think about. Upon graduation I may not be able to balance rent, loan payments, and other expenses. I am hopeful that the government can make reforms to fix this crisis,” said James Barry, Marist College '17. "Our son Alex is a wonderful young man who is giving back to the community and helping people in need. What would help Alex, as well as the many thousands who are drowning in student loans, is if the interest rate(s) on government loans were much lower, commensurate with mortgage and car loans,” said Maddy and Larry Burday, parents of Alex Burday. “As a Resident Assistant at SUNY Dutchess, I appreciate the blessing that financial aid has given to my parents and me. While I've been very blessed I don't believe any student or family should have to take on the burden of significant debt,” said Michael Zaruma, Resident Assistant at SUNY Dutchess. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has focused on combating student loan debt and making college more affordable for working families. He is a co-sponsor of the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, which would allow student loan borrowers to refinance their loans at current rates. Rep. Maloney also wrote the Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act, which would make it easier for disabled veterans to have their federal student loans forgiven, and he supports the ACTION for National Service Act that would provide educational benefits, equal to four years of average in-state tuition, for students who serve in national service programs like the Peace Corps.
10.03.2016	Schumer, Gillibrand, Maloney: These Fed Funds Help Ensure the Police Staffing Necessary to Keep Our Communities Safe U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney today announced that the City of Middletown will receive $500,000 in federal funding to hire four new police officers. This funding comes from the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). Specifically, the funding will be allocated through the COPS Hiring Program (CHP), which helps cities around the country put more cops on the beat. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney said that, given how tight city budgets are, these funds are critical in enabling Middletown to bolster its police force and keep communities safe. “At a time of tight budgets for cities like Middletown, helping to hire and retain police officers is exactly the type of investment that the federal government should be making. This effort will increase safety in the City of Middletown and ensure that the local police have the additional resources they need to work effectively and prevent crime,” said Senator Schumer, author of the 1994 Crime Bill that created the COPS program. “These four new officers will soon be on the beat and they will be able to make a huge difference in keeping more people safe throughout the community. Middletown needs all the help it can get to lower crime, and this investment in new officers will go a long way.” “These federal funds will allow Middletown to hire the four additional police officers it needs to enhance public safety,” said Senator Gillibrand. “I will continue to push for resources to provide our local law enforcement officials with the tools necessary to fight crime and keep our communities safe.” “Our police officers keep families and businesses in Middletown safe and this federal funding will ensure they continue to have a strong and fully-staffed police force,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “I will continue working hand-in-glove with the Hudson Valley's finest to ensure they have the resources and staff they need to do their job safely and effectively.” “We are very pleased to have been selected to received such a generous award to help us fund additional police officers within our agency. These officers will be critical in assisting us to achieve our mission of reducing crime and building trust within the Middletown Community,” said Middletown Police Chief Ramon Bethencourt. “Our sincere appreciation goes out to Senator Chuck Schumer, Congressman Maloney, and the Community Oriented Policing Services division of the Department of Justice.” Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney explained that CHP plays a pivotal role in providing the funds Middletown, and many cities like it, need to hire new police officers. The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) is a component of the US Department of Justice, installed as a part of the 1994 Crime Bill. The COPS Office awards grants to state and local law enforcement agencies to hire and train community policing professionals, acquire cutting-edge crime-fighting technologies, and develop and test innovative policing strategies. This program awards grants to state and local law enforcement agencies to hire and train police officers, acquire and deploy new, crime-fighting technologies. The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) that is part of this program specifically provides funds directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new and/or rehire career law enforcement officers, and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts, distributed through a wide range of programs that includes grants and cooperative agreements.
10.03.2016	Newburgh, NY – After successfully pressing the Coast Guard to extend the public comment period for proposed Hudson River anchorage sites, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced new federal legislation that would halt the current, and any future United States Coast Guard proposal to expand mooring infrastructure on the Hudson River between Kingston and Yonkers. Rep. Maloney’s Hudson River Protection Act, would prohibit the Secretary of Homeland Security, and by extension the United States Coast Guard, from establishing new anchorage sites for vessels carrying hazardous or flammable material within five miles of an existing superfund site, a nuclear power plant, a site on the national register of historic places, or a critical habitat of an endangered species. While there are a wide range of sites in the Hudson Valley on the national register of historic places and critical habitats of endangered species, the superfund requirement alone covers the entire section of the Hudson River that the Coast Guard proposal is looking at for potential anchorages. Rep. Eliot Engel (NY-16) is an original cosponsor of the bill. “The Coast Guard’s proposal to install new anchorage sites is a bad idea and I will do whatever I can to stop it, including passing legislation on this issue,” said Rep. Maloney. “We don’t need more anchorage sites, we don’t want them – it is too dangerous and too harmful to our Hudson River, which is still recovering from PCB contamination – the last thing we need are dangerous oil tankers parking on our shores.” “I commend Congressman Maloney for the Hudson River Protection Act. The plan to locate numerous anchorages in the Mid-Hudson Valley will not just be an aesthetic blight, but it has the dangerous potential to pollute the river we have been fighting so hard to keep clean for the public to enjoy and for nature to thrive,” said Assemblyman Frank Skartados. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for looking out for our communities by introducing this bill to keep unnecessary barges out of the Hudson River. This legislation will ensure our access to the river is maintained, our property values aren't adversely affected, and our region remains safe from needless spills,” said Assemblyman James Skoufis. “I would like to commend Congressman Maloney for introducing this important legislation to address what is by all accounts a dangerous proposition. The introduction of these barges, moored on our beautiful Hudson River, many containing highly combustible or toxic chemicals, is a potential disaster. Orange County stands ready to support this important legislation,” said Orange County Executive Steve Neuhaus. The Coast Guard has announced advanced notice of a proposed rulemaking which, if conducted, could result in the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River for large commercial ships travelling from up-river to the port of New York. The anchorage sites would provide these ships a location to drop anchor before continuing on to the port. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings before the proposal can advance, and sent his own letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. In August, Representative Maloney, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and fellow Representatives Lowey and Engel, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period to December 6th. In September, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. On September 15th, Rep. Maloney asked Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to the proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston. Rep. Maloney’s office will collect all comments and deliver them to the Coast Guard prior to the end of the extended comment period on December 7th. Residents can express their opinion by visiting: https://seanmaloney.house.gov/contact/email-me or by filing electronically with the Coast Guard by visiting: https://www.regulations.gov/comment?D=USCG-2016-0132-0001.
10.03.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that Glynwood Center, an agricultural nonprofit in Cold Spring dedicated to making agriculture more profitable and sustainable, will receive a United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) investment of $249,839 to develop educational and promotional activities to increase local food sales. The investment will be made through the USDA Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP), which is funded by farm bill programs Maloney pursued after meetings with his Agriculture Advisory Committee. “I am thrilled that we secured this investment to support our local agriculture producers, and I will continue working with these farmers to bring more resources to the Hudson Valley to generate economic activity and create jobs,” said Rep. Maloney, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “Hudson Valley farmers grow top-quality produce, and as markets throughout the state continue to demand fresh, local foods, our agriculture producers have an opportunity to capitalize on these developments to bring even more good-paying jobs and investments to our area.” "Farmers and producers are facing unique challenges as demand for locally grown produce proliferates. We are excited and honored to receive support from the USDA, which will help Glynwood further develop and manage a coalition of farmers in our region,” said Kathleen Frith, Glynwood’s President. "This critical funding will allow us to create a collaborative marketing strategy to benefit regional farmers and educate consumers. It is especially gratifying that Congressman Maloney championed the Farmers Market Promotion Program, which will benefit Hudson Valley farmers." The investment will help Glynwood increase sales to ten counties throughout the Hudson Valley and beyond by providing tools to improve market access to those areas. Glynwood is an agricultural nonprofit with a mission to ensure that the Hudson Valley is a region defined by food, where farming thrives. The organization works to advance regenerative agriculture that benefits the natural environment, energizes local economies, enhances human health, and strengthens rural communities. Immediately after joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney hosted his first Agriculture Town Hall where he heard that Congress and the USDA must do a better job protecting hardworking farmers in the Hudson Valley – especially in the aftermath of devastating storms like Hurricane Irene. In response to this Town Hall, Rep. Maloney introduced his first bill, the bipartisan CROP Act, which aimed to reform crop insurance and invest in the specialty crop farmers who drive the Hudson Valley’s agricultural economy. Rep. Maloney’s CROP Act, along with other key priorities for the Hudson Valley, was included in the 2014 Farm Bill. Maloney is also a cosponsor of the Young Farmer Success Act, legislation designed to incentivize careers in farming. The bill would designate farming as a public service under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, and allow qualified applicants to receive full federal student loan forgiveness after ten years of on-time payments. In July, Maloney announced new legislation to help beginning Hudson Valley farmers, which includes expanding funding for programs which expand access to locally-grown foods.
10.03.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced a total of $400,000 in investments for two Hudson Valley nonprofits to help runaway and homeless youth. Funded through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Hudson River Housing will receive $200,000 to provide adequate staffing for their 24 hour shelter, and Green Chimneys will receive $200,000 to support its wraparound services including counseling, advocacy and follow-up. “As the father of three kids, I can’t imagine a child going to sleep at night without a roof over their head – especially when we experience extreme weather events like blizzards or hurricanes in the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working together I will continue to make essential investments in our local nonprofits like Green Chimneys and Hudson River Housing to support homeless youth and keep our kids safe.” “Green Chimneys is thrilled to receive federal funding for our Basic Center and Street Outreach Programs through the Administration for Children and Families,” said Kristin Dionne Director, Fund Development, The Friends of Green Chimneys. “This funding is vital for us to continue to serve runaway, homeless and at-risk youth through our shelter and community outreach center programs. We thank Congressman Maloney for his support in addressing the needs of vulnerable youth in our district and look forward to working on making this a safe, supportive community for all youth.” “This is thrilling news as we approach the fiscal year for our emergency shelter for homeless youth,” said Patrice Kellett Director of River Haven. “This is the only shelter of its kind in Dutchess County and it provides much needed resources for the increasing needs of this vulnerable population.” Funding for Green Chimneys will provide a litany of services designed to improve the lives of hundreds of homeless youth throughout the Hudson Valley. Through the assistance of this award, Green Chimneys will be able to continue to operate its Arbor House Shelter, which currently serves more than 250 children and young adults. In addition, the Shelter will be able to also reach 4,000 more at-risk youth through increased preventative outreach efforts. The services of Arbor House are vital to the hundreds of homeless children throughout the Hudson Valley. Green Chimneys aims to ultimately reunite their clients with their families whenever possible, preventing future episodes of separation/homelessness and avoiding involvement/placement with the mental health, juvenile justice and foster care systems. Funding for Hudson River Housing will enable the organization to provide adequate staffing for their 24 hour shelter and augment their outreach program. Last year, Hudson River Housing lost funding, and has struggled to maintain its services for homeless youth. Through a continuum of services for the homeless to the homeowner, Hudson River Housing is dedicated to building strong, sustainable communities by developing and preserving quality affordable housing and helping families and individuals obtain and maintain housing through education, advocacy, and support services. Green Chimneys is a multi-faceted nonprofit organization helping young people to maximize their full potential by providing residential, educational, clinical and recreational services, in a safe and supportive environment that nurtures connections with their families, the community, animals and nature.
09.29.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after a New Jersey Transit passenger train crashed in Hoboken. “I am deeply saddened by the news of yet another train crash on one of our commuter rails. I am also angry – at least three people won’t be able to go home to their families today because we have failed to invest in basic technology that could have saved lives. Since four of my neighbors were killed in the 2013 Metro North crash, our thoughts and prayers have gone out to victims of tragic train accidents in Valhalla and Philadelphia, from North Carolina to California – this has gone on for too long. “While we are just beginning to learn the cause of this crash, it appears that once again an accident was not prevented because the trains our commuters were riding lacked positive train control (PTC) – the longer we fail to prioritize investing in rail safety technology, the more innocent lives we put in jeopardy.” Rep. Maloney is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has been a leader on rail safety and investing in positive train control (PTC), a simple Wi-Fi and GPS technology that can stop or slow trains remotely. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 was signed into law, which requires passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify high-hazard curves, like those involved in the Spuyten Duyvil and Philadelphia train derailments, and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installing of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication. In March 2015, the House also passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads.
09.28.2016	Washington — In the event of a government shutdown, which would happen if a government funding bill is not passed by midnight September 30th, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he will not accept a paycheck until Congress passes a government funding bill. On September 27th, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter to the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) requesting that his salary be withheld in the event of a government shutdown. “Members of Congress should live by the same rules my hardworking Hudson Valley neighbors live by – if you don’t do your job, you don’t get paid. Congress shouldn’t get a paycheck if they can’t get their act together, do their job and pass a bill to fund our government. Folks in the Hudson Valley sent me here to get things done, they pay my salary, and if this Congress can’t pass a budget they shouldn’t get paid,” said Rep. Maloney. Rep. Maloney is a co-sponsor of the No Budget No Pay Act, which would ensure our country avoids defaulting on our debt and would withhold congressional pay until a comprehensive budget is passed by Congress. Rep. Maloney is also a co-sponsor of the No Government, No Pay Act to that if the Federal government shuts down then Members of Congress would not be compensated until a budget has been passed, and all government employees are back to work. Below is a copy of Rep. Maloney’s letter: September 27, 2016 Mr. Philip Kiko Chief Administrative Officer HB-26, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Kiko, Although I remain hopeful that Congress will come to an agreement and pass a Continuing Resolution before September 30, a shutdown of the government remains possible. As a cosponsor of the No Budget, No Pay Act, I believe that members of Congress should be held to the same standards as the people I have the honor of representing in the Hudson Valley. I write today to request that in the event of a shutdown my pay be withheld. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
09.28.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the passing of Shimon Peres, former President of Israel: “With the passing of former Israeli President Shimon Peres, Israel has lost a visionary leader, the United States has lost a steadfast friend, and the world has lost a courageous peacemaker. As Prime Minister, President, and Noble Peace Prize Winner, Peres dedicated his life to protecting his people while bravely working to broker peace in the Middle East. “I had the honor of meeting former President Peres when I traveled to Israel in 2013, and I will never forget shaking his hand – his commitment to his country and to a lasting peace for Israel is truly remarkable. My prayers go out to his family, the people of Israel, and all those fighting for a more just peace.”
09.23.2016	Washington — Following the death of Carmel resident and 30 year veteran of the New York City Police Department James O’Neill, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney delivered remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor his legacy. After serving on the New York City police force, O’Neill dedicated his life to honoring and assisting other officers by founding New York State Shields and serving as President of the Stephen P Driscoll Fraternal Order of Police lodge in Putnam County. Rep. Maloney was joined by James O’Neill’s wife and other law enforcement officers from the Hudson Valley. A full transcript of Rep. Maloney’s remarks is below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life and legacy of the late James O’Neill. James was a giant in the law enforcement community in my home district in the Hudson Valley. We lost him suddenly on Sunday, July 17th at the age of 59 of an apparent heart attack. On that day though, we didn’t just lose a friend, we also lost a father, and a husband, and an icon of the New York City and Putnam County police communities. “Jimmy was born and raised in the Bronx. He was a graduate of Visitation School, and of Cardinal Hayes High School. He joined the NYPD in 1979. He lived a life devoted to service and dedicated nearly 30 years to the New York Police Department before retiring as a detective and squad supervisor in 1999. He went on to become a founding member of the New York Shields and President of the Fraternal Order of Police in Putnam County. “He was an outspoken leader whose efforts involved working with officers suffering from mental and emotional effects of serving on the force. He was an icon in the police community, he was the consummate ‘cop’s cop’. He not only devoted his own career as a police officer and a detective to serving others, but even after his retirement he devoted himself in so many ways to helping other officers and their families in times of need. “I want to send my personal condolences to Jimmy’s wife Kathy, his son James along with their dear friends Joanne Viola, Henry Primus, John McCardle and Paul Curtin. All of whom have joined us here today, and we’re honored by your presence. The law enforcement community, the Hudson Valley and New York has lost one of its finest and he’ll be sorely missed. “The beauty of Jimmy’s life can be summed up by this: He loved his family beyond all measure, gave all to his family and community, and was the most humble and decent man anyone can say they ever knew. His absence is a chasm that we will never fill. I yield back.”
09.22.2016	Newburgh, NY — After years of working with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), state and local officials, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced an EPA investment of $12 million for the first phase to build a new waterline to supply clean drinking water to 325 homes in Hopewell Junction. The Army Corps of Engineers will be responsible for construction, and bidding for subcontractors will begin next month, with construction to begin in the next year. “When I met with folks in Hopewell Junction in 2012 I promised them I wouldn't stop until they had clean water – I’m thrilled that this fight is over and that after 13 years our neighbors in Hopewell Junction will finally get the clean water that they need and deserve,” said Rep. Maloney. “I will continue to work with the EPA to ensure this environmental catastrophe is fully remedied and that none of my friends and neighbors in Hopewell Junction have to live in fear that the water they are drinking could be dangerous.” "Thanks to Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for all of his hard work in securing funding to supply water to the hundreds of homes located in the Hopewell Precision Superfund Site,” said East Fishkill Town Supervisor John Hickman. “This initial funding allows the real construction to begin to provide water to those affected homes. This project has been in the works for many, many years and it wasn't until Congressman Maloney got involved that real progress was made. Again, thanks to Congressman Maloney for making clean water a reality to those people who have suffered for so long." Dutchess County Executive Marcus J. Molinaro said, “We are grateful to our federal representatives, including Congressman Maloney, for continuing the push for the dollars necessary to finally remedy the long-standing contamination issues at the Hopewell Precision Superfund site. Too many residents lives have been adversely impacted by the pollution at the site and this first round of funding will move the water system forward to ensure those residents can safely and confidently drink the water in their own home.” “After 13 long years of ups and downs I feel closer to finally getting the clean water our neighborhood needs,” said community activist Debra Hall. “Congressman Maloney and Supervisor Hickman worked together with the EPA to make this possible, and I am at a loss for words. All I can say now is that I hope I’m invited to the groundbreaking.” In 2003, residents of Hopewell Junction became aware that sheet manufacturer Hopewell Precision had dumped chemical waste onto the ground at its facility in East Fishkill. In 2005, the site was designated a Superfund site by the EPA, which made it a candidate for federal cleanup assistance. Since then, the EPA has paid for air and water filters in the homes of affected residents, and has periodically tested residents who are at risk. In 2009, the EPA developed a cleanup plan, but lacked a reliable source of clean water. In 2013, it was discovered that the Cannon property, across the street from the East Fishkill Town Hall, was an ideal candidate from which to draw clean water to supply the hundreds of homes nearby. Earlier this year, the EPA and state and local authorities finalized a proposal to connect the impacted homes to a reliable source of clean water. That proposal has been approved, and funding has now been allocated to resolve the problem. Rep. Maloney has made remediating the Hopewell Precision Superfund site a paramount priority since 2012. In February 2013, only weeks after taking office, Representative Maloney wrote a letter to EPA Regional Administrator Judith Enck, calling on the EPA to pay for the construction of a new water facility on the Cannon property. Rep. Maloney has followed-up on the project by making personal calls or holding meetings with Judith Enck more than seven times since taking office. Rep. Maloney has also questioned EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy during hearings in the Agriculture Committee, and submitted questions to the EPA regarding remediation. Earlier this week, Rep. Maloney sent a letter directly to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, calling on the agency to immediately approve the finalized proposal to draw water from the Cannon property. Rep. Maloney has also introduced legislation to fund the project, opposed legislative attempts to upend the EPA process for cleaning up Superfund sites, and worked to strengthen regulations on dangerous chemicals. In 2014, he introduced an amendment to H.R. 2279, which would have required the EPA to fully fund the cleanup of the Hopewell Precision site while requiring the EPA to continue to seek compensation from responsible parties. He also supported bipartisan legislation earlier this year to overhaul the classification and regulation of toxic substances, including trichloroethylene, or TCE, one of the contaminants in the Hopewell Precision Superfund site, to prevent future contamination.
09.22.2016	Schumer & Maloney Successfully Urged Fed DOJ To Return $150K Grant Money – Which Was Previously Awarded To the City – to Newburgh So It Could Install More Security Cameras Schumer, Maloney: Fed Investment Will Allow Newburgh To Install Digital Surveillance System To Help City's Most Crime-Ridden Areas Newburgh, NY - U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer and U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney today announced that, following their push, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has approved the City of Newburgh’s request to repurpose $152,031– from a previously approved Project Safe Neighborhood grant – to launch and expand the City of Newburgh’s new security camera network. The camera project has broad and deep support throughout the community and with law enforcement. In October of 2015, the City of Newburgh applied for and received the Project Safe Neighborhoods grant worth nearly $460,000 dollars to create safer neighborhoods and reduce gang and gun violence. However, the lawmakers said $152,031of this funding was almost immediately repossessed by the DOJ due to a bureaucratic mistake. Schumer and Maloney went to bat for Newburgh and urged the DOJ to repurpose this funding for the new security camera network, which will help the city deter and more easily solve crimes. “This federal investment is great news for the City of Newburgh, which will finally be able to launch and expand a security camera network to prevent and solve crime. I was proud to go to bat for Newburgh and urge the Department of Justice to swiftly approve their request to repurpose this critical funding. Every dollar makes a difference, and with these additional tools, Newburgh will really be able to take a bite out of violent crime and build a healthier community,” said U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer. "After working hand-in-glove with Newburgh Police Department to ensure we have more cops on the beat and the resources they need to keep our city safe, we have now secured federal funding for security cameras in the city. These cameras are a necessary tool to help our police respond to violent crimes more quickly, make it easier to prosecute those who would do harm to our families, and will also function as a deterrent that will make criminals think twice before pulling a trigger that would end a life. I will continue working with the Department of Justice and Senator Schumer to get critical funding for more crime-fighting technology throughout the city to keep our streets safe,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney. Schumer and Maloney said that the people of Newburgh have struggled to fight the too-high levels of violent crime in their community and need all the tools and financial support they can get from the federal government to assist these efforts. This federal investment is the essential first step needed to help the city repair nonworking surveillance cameras and install new digital surveillance cameras in the city's most crime-ridden areas. A copy of Rep. Maloney’s initial letter to the DOJ appears below: Dear Attorney General Holder: I am writing in support of the Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) grant application submitted by the City of Newburgh, NY. As you are aware, PSN is designed to create safer neighborhoods through sustained reduction in crime. The City of Newburgh has been identified as having one of the highest crime rates in the country, with an alarmingly high increase in crimes associated with firearms and assaults. Award of this application will allow the City to apply a collaborative approach to reducing crime by concentrating enforcement efforts in specific areas where criminal activity, poverty, and population density are all exponentially high. Award of this application will allow the Newburgh Police Department to implement a comprehensive program targeting multiple causes of violent crime. The City will address this matter from a law enforcement and academic perspective, with the assistance of the John Jay School of Criminal Justice and the National Network for Safe Communities. Your partnership and collaboration will enable the City of Newburgh to return to a thriving metropolis. Therefore, I fully support this application and urge your serious consideration of this noteworthy effort to reduce crime in the City of Newburgh. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my Assistant Chief of Staff, Joseph Donat, at (845) 561-1259 or via e-mail at Joseph.Donat@mail.house.gov. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter and please keep my office informed about this opportunity during the awards process. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
09.20.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined New York State Health Commissioner Howard Zucker, Senator Bill Larkin, and Assemblyman Frank Skartados to announce the launch of a comprehensive biomonitoring program for City of Newburgh residents that may have been exposed to perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) in the public drinking water supply. In consultation with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), the New York State Department of Health (DOH) will soon begin taking blood samples from Newburgh residents. “My neighbors in Newburgh – and throughout the Hudson Valley – deserve safe drinking water, and they deserve to know if the water they've been drinking is making them sick. I thank the Governor for taking this action to get folks in Newburgh tested – this is a critical step to learning the extent of our exposure and determining the potential health effects of our contaminated drinking water,” said Rep. Maloney. “I will continue working with the CDC and state and local officials to ensure Newburgh has the resources it needs to provide safe drinking water and prepare for any potential health risks associated with the contamination.” Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source without placing the financial burden on the City. After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’s request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” On May 19, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan. Rep. Maloney will continue working together with DOH, local leaders, community groups, and federal partners to conduct coordinated outreach and ensure participation from a cross-section of Newburgh residents. This program will serve as a national model for understanding PFOS exposure. Newburgh residents interested in participating or learning more are encouraged to email beoe@health.ny.gov or call the Water Quality Hotline: 800-801-8092 (Monday - Friday: 9 AM – 8 PM; Saturday: 9 AM - 3 PM).
09.19.2016	Newburgh, NY – Following the death of 18-year-old Newburgh Free Academy graduate Keyshan Gayle by gun violence, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined the City of Newburgh Police Department and the mother of Keyshan Gayle to call for the Department of Justice (DOJ) to approve funding for Shot Spotter Technology (SST). On May 16th, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter of support for the application to BJA Director Denise E. O’Donnell, citing that “firearm assaults and shootings continue to be alarmingly high and your assistance is critical for reducing its severity.” On September 19th, Rep. Maloney wrote a follow-up letter to BJA Director O’Donnell reiterating his support for the grant and citing the death of Keyshan Gayle as evidence that “shot spotter” technology could help the Newburgh Police Department combat violent gun deaths in the City. “I am committed to ending gun violence in Newburgh – so folks feel safe to open a business or raise a family here and young people like Keyshan can have the chance to grow up. The Newburgh Police Department has done incredible work, but they need our support. That’s why I am fighting to secure resources to stop this type of violence and I will continue working to secure tools like “Shot-Spotter Technology” to help our police fight gun crimes,” said Rep. Maloney. “My promise is to not stop until every street in Newburgh is safe for our children,” said Jennifer Bediako, mother of Keyshan Gayle. “Although my son is lost, we may be able to save the lives of other children by getting technology that will make our streets safer.” “Shot Spotter will tell us as [crime] is happening – and the likelihood of apprehension if we’re notified of something as it’s occurring – increases tremendously,” said City of Newburgh Police Chief Dan Cameron. “I am convinced that Shot Spotter will be a benefit to the police department. Since day one, we have had a lot of technical and supportive help from Congressman Maloney’s office – to this day we still have that support…we can write the grants and show the data, but the bottom line is we need people supporting us to get this.” Newburgh police often rely solely on community reporting to locate perpetrators of gun violence. These reports can be inconsistent or inaccurate. SST would empower police by providing the technology necessary to gather critical information to solve gun crimes, and to ensure those responsible are apprehended and successfully prosecuted. The investment would provide four square miles of the City of Newburgh with audio sensors, which can pinpoint the location of the gunfire, detect the frequency of gunfire, and identify the type of firearm used. Each type of bullet carries a specific audio signature. Although these signatures are undetectable to the human ear, SST can discern the type of ammunition being fired. The city applied for the technology as part of the BJA’s Technology Innovation for Public Safety (TIPS) program.
09.15.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced a federal investment through the Institute of Museum and Library Services’ (IMLS) “Museums for America” program of $137,280 to promote school readiness in children ages three to five. The Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum currently collaborates with the Smithsonian Early Enrichment Center to provide children the opportunity to visit museums, gain education in the science, engineering, technology, and mathematics (STEM) fields, provide educators opportunities for professional development, and provide resources for parents. “As a father, I understand the importance of ensuring our kids have a strong educational foundation before they even start their first day of kindergarten,” said Rep. Maloney. “This investment will make sure that kids in Poughkeepsie – regardless of economic status – can access essential educational opportunities they need to get ahead.” “The grant helps us reach more than 300 Poughkeepsie children who wouldn’t normally get to come to the museum,” said Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum Education Director Peter Jacobsen. “ Not only do they get to visit but they get special field trips every month and memberships for their families. It helps us to make a big impact in their lives and makes the museum an important part of early education in the community.” Through this two-year project, young children from early childhood education centers located in Poughkeepsie will participate in programs at the museum, early educators will be trained at professional development sessions and parents will be engaged through family workshops. The Institute of Museum and Library Services is the primary source of federal support for the nation’s 123,000 libraries and 35,000 museums. Museums for America is the Institute’s largest grant program for museums that work to enhance the capacity for museums to best serve their communities. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured nearly $4 million for early childhood education programs in the Hudson Valley. In 2014, Maloney announced an IMLS investment in the Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum of $146,799 through the Museums for America Program. In February, Rep. Maloney announced that his office secured a $1.7 million grant for the Regional Economic Community Action Program (RECAP), an Orange County community based organization which supports Early Learning and Head Start programs. In April, he announced an investment of over $2.2 million for Orange County Head Start.
09.15.2016	Washington – After successfully pressing the Coast Guard to extend the public comment period for proposed Hudson River anchorage sites, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is asking Hudson Valley residents to contact his office directly to provide comments in regards to a reckless proposal to install ten new anchorage sites on the Hudson River from Yonkers to Kingston. Rep. Maloney’s office will collect all comments and deliver them to the Coast Guard prior to the end of the extended comment period on December 7th. “The Coast Guard’s proposal to install new anchorage sites is a disaster, and I urge my friends and neighbors in the Hudson Valley to make their opinion known on this important matter - the health of our river and our communities depends on it,” said Rep. Maloney. “I want to make sure the voices of all my Hudson Valley neighbors are heard - we don’t need more anchorage sites, we don’t want them, and we now have the opportunity to make that clear to the bureaucrats who will make the final decision.” The Coast Guard has announced advanced notice of a proposed rulemaking which, if conducted, could result in the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River for large commercial ships travelling from up-river to the port of New York. The anchorage sites would provide these ships a location to drop anchor before continuing on to the port. Rep. Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings before the proposal can advance, and sent his own letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. In August, Representative Maloney, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and fellow Representatives Lowey and Engel, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period. Last week, Maloney questioned Coast Guard officials and secured a commitment to an open and transparent process, including public hearings. Hudson Valley residents can express their opinion by visiting: https://seanmaloney.house.gov/contact/email-me or by filing electronically with the Coast Guard by visiting: https://www.regulations.gov/comment?D=USCG-2016-0132-0001.
09.14.2016	Newburgh, NY — Only days after announcing that his bill to increase veterans employment had been signed into law, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that the House of Representatives has once again unanimously passed his Disabled Veteran Red Tape Reduction Act by a vote of 426-0. Maloney’s bill, which will save a program that allows disabled veterans to seek out medical examinations by physicians outside of the VA for disability claims, has passed in similar form twice before in 2013 and 2015. “Our veterans – especially those who were disabled during their time of service – should not have to wade through a river of red tape just to get medical care,” said Rep. Maloney, the son of a disabled veteran. “We’ve once again saved this important program which will allow our veterans to get the care they earned when they need it, while continuing to cut down on the VA’s extensive backlog.” “Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney's Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act not only demonstrates his commitment to veterans in his district but to veterans across the United States. This act will enable veterans to seek medical professionals of their own choosing and reduce the burden on veterans and their families who otherwise would have to travel long distance to visit medical professionals. Congressman Maloney's act should also expedite the processing time of veterans' VA claims,” said Brigadier General John Hussey, Chair of Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board upon passage of the legislation last year. The Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act passed as an amendment to the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016, introduced by Republican Jeff Miller of Florida. Working across the aisle, Maloney passed a similar version of this bill in 2013 and again last year. The program would have expired without reauthorization, but with today’s passage, will be extended until 2018. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, despite Washington gridlock. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act was signed into law to reform the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, the key employment program to help assist, train and find jobs for veterans who have compensable service-connected disabilities. In July, two of Rep. Maloney’s legislative proposals were included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 - ensuring disabled veterans receive specialized treatment and loan forgiveness. The Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act will ensure greater cooperation between the Department of Education, VA, and Department of Defense by establishing a system for transferring relevant information for veterans with 100-percent service-connected disabilities who have outstanding loans; the Appropriate Care for Disabled Veterans Act extends a mandate for the VA to report on its capacity for rehabilitating disabled veterans. In addition, Rep. Maloney’s Air Traffic Controller Hiring Improvement Act was signed into law this summer, which will improve the hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers and prioritize the hiring of veterans.
09.14.2016	Newburgh, NY — Days after touring Dutchess County Airport, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced a federal Department of Transportation (DOT) investment of $1,717,911 to rehabilitate two runways totaling 17,821 feet at Stewart International Airport. These investments are part of an eight phase redevelopment effort to renovate both runways at Stewart. “Developing critical infrastructure in the Hudson Valley keeps our families safe while creating good-paying jobs and boosting our local economy,” said Rep. Maloney. “Hundreds of thousands of my neighbors in the Hudson Valley fly through Stewart every year, and the ongoing rehabilitation project will ensure they can fly safely – continuing to attract national air carriers and encourage businesses to grow in the Hudson Valley.” “The Port Authority is committed to improving Stewart International Airport so it may better serve the region’s travelers, including the Board authorization of $143.5 million towards the runway rehabilitation project,” said Port Authority Aviation Director Thomas L. Bosco. “Thanks in part to the U.S. Department of Transportation, U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney and the $1.7 million Federal Aviation Administration grant, this latest investment not only helps to ensure the continued safety and efficiency of the airport’s runways, but will also generate jobs over the life of the project and more than $200 million in economic activity.” The investment for Stewart International Airport will cover 90% of the total project cost and be used to rehabilitate and repave approximately 11,817 feet of runway pavement on one runway and 6,004 feet on another runway. The FAA Airport Improvement program is funded by aviation fees, including aviation fuel tax and passenger ticket fees. Since taking office, Representative Maloney has made infrastructure development and safety a top priority. In 2014, he announced an earlier round of investment totaling $1,859,650 in Stewart’s runway rehabilitation program. Additionally, he has secured nearly $17 million for the Orange County Airport, and nearly $2 million for the Dutchess County Airport. In May, Rep. Maloney introduced the bipartisan Air Traffic Controller Act to close dangerous gaps in the employment of air traffic controllers. The bill passed the House of Representatives in July and was signed into law by President Obama.
09.13.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after reports that the New York State Department of Health (DOH) is planning to test Newburgh residents for levels of water contaminant, which can be associated with severe health issues. Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source without placing the financial burden on the City. “My neighbors in Newburgh deserve clean drinking water, and they deserve to know of any health risks they may be facing because of years of unsafe drinking water. I’m glad that the NYS DOH has agreed with our call to test folks in Newburgh for contamination – this is a critical step to learning the extent of our exposure and determining the potential health effects of our drinking water,” said Rep. Maloney. “I will continue working with the CDC and state and local officials to ensure Newburgh has the resources it needs to provide clean drinking water and prepare for any potential health risks associated with the contamination.” After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’S request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” On May 19, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of PFOA and PFOS in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan.
09.13.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), member of the West Point Board of Visitors, announced today his office is accepting applications for students from the Hudson Valley to seek a United States Service Academy nomination from his office. Rep. Maloney has the ability to nominate students to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. Students applying to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London do not need a Congressional nomination. In June, 12 students from the Hudson Valley accepted offers of appointment to one of the nation’s service academies. "It is my honor to not only represent the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in Congress, but each year to be a small part of one of our country’s oldest traditions of nominating the Hudson Valley’s most accomplished and motivated young leaders for acceptance into a service academy," said Rep. Maloney. "Service Academies like West Point provide a top notch education while preparing our young men and women for a life of selfless service to our country.” Interested students must submit their completed applications to Rep. Maloney’s district office at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY 12550, no later than October 31, 2016. All applicants who have submitted their completed application materials will be contacted to schedule their interview with Rep. Maloney’s Service Academy Selection Board. The application process is open to all interested high school seniors in New York’s 18th Congressional District. Students are encouraged to research the specific academies on their respective websites for further information on the nomination and selection process. Detailed information and a downloadable application are available here or also at seanmaloney.house.gov. Any questions may be directed to Oscar Dunham, Senior Veterans Advocate, at 845-561-1259.
09.12.2016	Newburgh, NY – After touring the air traffic control tower at Dutchess County Airport, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney joined County Executive Marcus Molinaro, Director of Dutchess County Division of Veterans Services Nelson Eddy Rivera, and representatives from the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) to announce passage of Rep. Maloney’s legislation to improve hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers and facilitate the hiring of more veteran controllers. America is on the precipice of an air traffic control crisis, as older controllers retire faster than new controllers can be hired and trained. This legislation prioritizes hiring veterans by placing them in a separate hiring pool from the general public and requires the FAA to select veterans for vacancies without subjecting them to FAA’s biographical assessment. “Millions of New Yorkers rely on our airports for safe, efficient and convenient travel every year – helping to grow our economy and create jobs,” said Rep. Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “As the son of a Navy veteran I also believe it is our duty to ensure those who have served our country can find employment when they come home. My legislation will make sure our airports are adequately staffed and give our veterans the chance to find meaningful, good paying jobs after their service - keeping our runways and skies safe for all travelers." Dutchess County Executive Marc Molinaro said, “We are grateful to Congressman Maloney for his continued support of our efforts to improve and expand operations at the Dutchess County Airport. This bill not only adds to the critical investments we’ve made at the airport to enhance services and attract new businesses, but it addresses a growing concern regarding the hiring of our nation’s veterans. The brave men and women in our military deserve to have a job to come home to after selflessly serving our country and the measures outlined in this bill will ensure their hiring is a top priority.” “Congressman Maloney’s bill, which was passed in July as part of the extension to FAA reauthorization, is a big step forward. It allows the FAA to streamline the hiring process by allowing experienced controllers to be hired quickly. Myself and all of us at NATCA want to thank the Congressman for all his efforts in creating this bill and making it happen. He is a true champion and a friend to air traffic controllers,” said Jose Freitas, National Air Traffic Controller Association (NATCA). Introduced in May, the Air Traffic Controller Hiring Improvement Act will improve the hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers at the FAA. The Air Traffic Controller Hiring Improvement Act clears out redundant bureaucratic hurdles to speed the hiring of more controllers as opposed to slowing it down. It also prioritizes hiring veterans and Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI) graduates by placing them in a separate hiring pool from the general public and requires the FAA to select veterans for vacancies without subjecting them to FAA’s biographical assessment. It also recommends that the FAA recruit experienced controllers, including military and Department of Defense civilian controllers, Federal Contract Tower controllers, and those with prior FAA experience. Rep. Maloney’s legislation was included in H.R. 636, the FAA Extension, Safety and Security Act of 2016, which was signed into law by President Obama. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, despite Washington gridlock. In 2013, Rep. Maloney’s Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act was signed into law, which helped to address the Veterans Administration (VA) backlog of disability claims. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act was signed into law to reform the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, the key employment program to help assist, train and find jobs for veterans who have compensable service-connected disabilities. In July, two of Rep. Maloney’s legislative proposals were included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 - ensuring disabled veterans receive specialized treatment and loan forgiveness. The Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act will ensure greater cooperation between the Department of Education, VA, and Department of Defense by establishing a system for transferring relevant information for veterans with 100-percent service-connected disabilities who have outstanding loans; the Appropriate Care for Disabled Veterans Act extends a mandate for the VA to report on its capacity for rehabilitating disabled veterans.
09.11.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement on the 15th anniversary of the September 11th attacks. Rep. Maloney is expected to join local officials from both sides of the aisle at memorial ceremonies in Dutchess and Orange Counties on Sunday, September 11th. “Fifteen years after the terrorist attack on September 11th shook our nation and took thousands of innocent American lives, we take the time to remember those who were lost and those who gave their lives to save others. As New Yorkers, we are especially reminded of the resilience and strength of our fellow Americans, their families and our brave first responders - let us never forget the sacrifice they made for our freedom. My thoughts and prayers continue to go out to the families who lost loved ones and to those who survived the horrific attack - I will always stand with you.” Rep. Maloney is a proud co-sponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which was introduced in the House by fellow New Yorker, Rep. Carolyn Maloney. Last year, this bill was passed into law, reauthorizing the Victim Compensation Fund for the next 25 years. The program provides compensation to 9/11 responders and survivors and their families for physical injuries and potential life-threatening health effects due to the toxins released at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.
09.09.2016	Deadline: November 2nd Washington – As students across the Hudson Valley return to school, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the opening of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge and invited local students to participate. The Congressional App Challenge was designed to inspire students to take a keen interest in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) by creating their own software application. The purpose of this challenge is to encourage youth to demonstrate their tech and coding skills by allowing them to create an original application to be used on the smart device of their choice. “Hudson Valley students are some of the most creative and innovative in the nation and I look forward to seeing them showcase their tech skills in this year’s Congressional App Challenge,” said Representative Maloney. “America’s ability to compete in the changing, 21st century economy will rely on our ability to train the next generation of creative, tech-savvy entrepreneurs, and we should work together to diversify participation in the tech sector.” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or attend school within the 18th Congressional district. Participating students, either individuals or teams of up to four, will be required to submit a one to three minute YouTube or Vimeo video explaining how their app works and what they learned throughout the process. The submission period ends on November 2nd, 2016. The Congressional App Challenge in partnership with Amazon Web Services Inc. (AWS) will provide $50,000 in AWS service credits, that can be used for AWS cloud computing services, to be split by the winners (with parental permission). A panel of Hudson Valley professionals and experts will judge the apps and the winner will be recognized by Rep. Maloney’s office. For additional information on submitting and entry, the rules of the competition, and other helpful resources, please visit www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us.
09.09.2016	Newburgh, NY – Building on his record of getting things done for Hudson Valley first responders, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced a Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) federal investment of $24,835 for the City of Poughkeepsie Police Department. This federal investment will be used to enhance computer abilities in police vehicles through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). “Poughkeepsie is a thriving city and a great place to raise a family or start a business – and it is one of my top priorities to make sure our streets and neighborhoods in Poughkeepsie are safe,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our law enforcement officers risk their lives every day to protect our communities and they deserve the state-of-the-art technology they need to do their job safely and effectively.” “As the Mayor of the City of Poughkeepsie, I thank Congressmen Sean Patrick Maloney again for his steadfast and continued support in helping public safety in the City of Poughkeepsie,” said Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison. “ His ability to secure monies from the federal government has been critical to the enhancement of our computer capabilities in our police vehicles. The ability to have access to instant information for our police officers not only enhances the safety of the public, but most importantly their own safety as they protect our city.” Since joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney has fought for significant investments to police and fire departments throughout the Hudson Valley. Funding for police has been used primarily to hire more police officers and fortify community policing efforts. A comprehensive list and breakdown of federal grant investments in Hudson Valley police and fire departments can be found here. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) allows local government to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own state and local needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice, including for any one or more of the following program areas: 1) law enforcement programs; 2) prosecution and court programs; 3) prevention and education programs; 4) corrections and community corrections programs; 5) drug treatment and enforcement programs; 6) planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs; and 7) crime victim and witness programs (other than compensation). More information on the program can be found here.
09.08.2016	Washington — As students returned to school in the Hudson Valley, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney held a call with local and national experts to share community resources and discuss ways parents, teachers, coaches and communities can combat heroin and opioid abuse. Rep. Maloney and experts Deborah Hersman of the National Safety Council and Susan Salomone of Drug Crisis in Our Backyard discussed how to spot signs of heroin and opioid abuse in children and young adults. Rep. Maloney also announced his new community resource guide and tip sheet for parents and discussed steps he is taking to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. “As a father of two teenage girls, I know that combating the heroin and opioid epidemic starts at home, and I want to ensure that parents in the Hudson Valley have the resources they need to prevent drug addiction and get help if they need it,” said Rep. Maloney. “You are not alone – if you or someone you know is struggling with addiction, there are resources available from my office and throughout the Hudson Valley. As our kids go back to school, I encourage all of my friends and neighbors to read-up on the threat this epidemic poses and ensure you know what to look for and how to respond to signs of addiction.” “Opioids kill 78 people every day, and every single one of these overdoses is preventable,” said Deborah A.P. Hersman, president and CEO of the National Safety Council. “We all have a role to play in changing the culture of drug abuse in America, and Congressman Maloney’s efforts will go a long way toward helping us save lives.” Earlier this summer, Rep. Maloney’s legislation to combat opioid abuse by improving education for prescribing physicians and incentivizing the pharmaceutical industry to include anti-abuse properties in new medications was signed into law as part of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). In addition, Rep. Maloney introduced the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act, which would provide law enforcement with the option to divert low-level drug offenders directly to treatment instead of booking them and sending them through the criminal justice system. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has held telephone town halls on the heroin and opioid epidemic with over 21,000 Hudson Valley residents. Community members, especially parents, are encouraged to download the Know the Signs Tip sheet and Community Resource Guide. Anyone struggling with addiction is encouraged to use the resources listed below: New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services at oasas.ny.gov or call 1-877-8-HOPENY; Team Newburgh Gateway Center at 914-569-0034; Permanent Medication Collection Box at Town of Newburgh Police Department at 300 Gardernertown Road, Newburgh, NY 12550, or call 845-564-1100; Mount Kisco Partners in Prevention at 104 Main Street, Mount Kisco, NY 10549, or call 914-241-0500; Putnam County Communities That Care Coalition at 67 Gleneida Avenue Carmel, NY, or call 845-225-4646; Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth at 112 East Post Road, 3rd Floor, White Plains, NY 10601, or call 914-995-4115; Orange County Department of Mental Health 24 Hour Mobile Mental Health Team at 1-888-750-2266; Dutchess County Mental Hygiene Services 24 Hour Crisis Counseling Information and Referral Mobile Crisis Intervention Team at 1-877-485-9700; Westchester Department of Community Mental Health Crisis and Prevention and Response Team at 914-925-5959; Council on Addiction Prevention and Education (CAPE) of Dutchess County at 807 Route 52, Room 28, Fishkill, NY 12524, or call 845-765-8301; Drug Crisis in Our Backyard at 845-225-1222, Hudson Valley Region United Way at 845-471-1900.
09.07.2016	Washington — At a House Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee hearing with the United States Coast Guard, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney expressed his concern over the U.S. Coast Guards proposed anchorage sites on the Hudson River and asked for a commitment for public hearings to be held in the Hudson Valley. In response to his questioning, Rep. Maloney got a commitment from the Coast Guard to hold public hearings. Last week, Rep. Maloney contacted the Coast Guard to demand an extension to the public comment period. On September 1, the Coast Guard announced that the comment period was extended from September 7 to December 7. “This is a solution in search of a problem. There is no need for these additional anchorage sites,” said Rep. Maloney when addressing Rear Admiral Paul Thomas, United States Coast Guard. “This is a bad idea, this is not something we need – we don’t want it. And we want the process to take into account the intense public opposition to this from all corners, of all communities, in the Hudson Valley. I wanted to take the opportunity today to draw your attention to that and ask for your commitment that when the public hearings occur – that they will occur in an early and timely way and that they will be local and take into account as many of these local viewpoints as they possibly can. Because at this part in the process I can tell you that the people in the Hudson Valley feel as though their voices have not been heard on this proposal.” Rep. Maloney continued, “I would really like your commitment on including local voices in the public hearings that should occur locally and need to happen sooner rather than later.” Click here to watch the full video. The Coast Guard has proposed a rule which, if enacted, would permit the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River for large commercial ships travelling from up-river to the port of New York. The anchorage sites would provide these ships a location to drop anchor before continuing on to the port. Representative Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings on the proposal, and sent his own letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. Earlier this week, Representative Maloney, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and fellow Representatives Lowey and Engel, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments. Following this letter, the Coast Guard announced it was extending the public comment period.
09.07.2016	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced a federal investment of $1,910,785 to improve railroad safety infrastructure in New York, including Port Jervis. This federal investment will be used to install CCTV cameras to record grade crossing movements at 43 identified grade crossings along Metro North, including locations in Port Jervis, Hudson, Harlem, and Suffolk and Nassau Counties. These cameras will investigate specific incidents and analyze crossing and traffic operations for targeted safety improvements. This information will be used to develop and enhance grade crossing safety. “Incidents at rail crossings are all too common in New York – there are hundreds of high-hazard and dangerous crossings that need significant improvements – that is why it is crucial that we invest in positive train control and improve safety at grade crossings. This critical federal investment will ensure we identify key safety concerns at these crossings now so we can improve our safety infrastructure and keep millions of New Yorkers safe,” said Rep. Maloney. Immediately following the Metro-North accident, Maloney introduced the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which would invest in state and local governments' efforts to build bridges, tunnels, or otherwise relocate roads in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for passengers, motorists, and pedestrians. This legislation was passed by the House of Representatives on March 4, 2015, as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA). In addition, Maloney wrote several key measures to improve rail safety, which were included in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, also known as the Highway Transportation bill and signed into law. The Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act, which would require passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify curves with a speed reduction of 20 mph or greater, and take actions to enhance safety, including: modifying existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage, installing alert systems in cabs, and increasing crew communication. This legislation also gives railroads an incentive to implement positive train control (PTC).
09.01.2016	Newburgh, NY — After Representative Sean Patrick Maloney and other Congressional leaders contacted the Coast Guard to demand an extension to the public comment period regarding proposed anchorage sites on the Hudson River, the Coast Guard announced that the comment period has been extended from September 7 to December 7. “My friends and neighbors in the Hudson Valley have a fundamental right to make their voices heard on large-scale projects such as proposed anchorage sites – especially when the sites in question would reduce our beautiful river to a parking lot for oil ships,” said Maloney. “I will continue to work alongside our local, state, and federal officials to educate the people of the Hudson Valley on this issue and I urge everyone in our area to read-up on the proposal and take this opportunity to comment.” The Coast Guard has proposed a rule which, if enacted, would permit the construction of ten new anchorage sites along the Hudson River for large commercial ships travelling from up-river to the port of New York. The anchorage sites would provide these ships a location to drop anchor before continuing on to the port. Representative Maloney has repeatedly called for a comprehensive environmental impact study and additional hearings on the proposal, and sent his own letter to the Coast Guard on August 18. Earlier this week, Representative Maloney, along with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and fellow Representatives Lowey and Engel, sent a letter to the Coast Guard requesting a 90-day extension to provide the public time to learn about the proposal and to offer comments.
09.01.2016	Newburgh, NY — In response to 7 cases of travel-associated Zika reported in Orange County, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined local health experts at Orange County Community College, which is conducting mosquito surveillance for Orange County, to call for passage of $1.9 billion in emergency funding to combat Zika. Despite the growing number of Zika cases in New York and throughout the country, Congress left for summer recess without enacting bipartisan legislation to help fight the Zika virus. In August, as a result of the continuing congressional inaction, HHS informed Congress that it had been forced to redirect an additional $81 million in HHS funds already appropriated for other vital purposes to Zika – in order to prevent a delay in critical Zika vaccine development activities that are about to run out of money. “Once again, Congress has been asleep at the wheel while thousands of Americans, including folks in Orange County, have contracted the Zika virus. As parents, we shouldn’t have to worry about our kids getting bitten while waiting for the school bus or whether it’s safe to start a family. Yet instead of passing emergency funding to combat and stop the spread of Zika, Congress went on vacation – forcing researchers to take money from Ebola to pay for Zika. We can’t keep living virus to virus, disease to disease – and we shouldn’t be robbing Peter to pay Paul – we need to fight Ebola and Zika. I urge Congress to make this a top priority and pass emergency funding immediately,” said Rep. Maloney. County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus said, “There is virtually no risk of being infected with Zika virus in our region at this time. However, Orange County's Health Department will continue to be vigilant about monitoring Zika virus and other mosquito-borne diseases. I appreciate that Congressman Maloney is bringing attention to this important public health issue and seeking funding to study and combat it." “The Orange County Health Department has had a comprehensive mosquito surveillance and response program since 2000,” stated Orange County Commissioner of Health, Dr. Eli Avila. “The Health department works in collaboration with the Orange County Community College in the collection, identification and delivery of these mosquito pools to the NYSDOH’s Wadsworth Laboratory in Albany, NY.” As of today there are seven Travel-related Zika virus cases in Orange County. Commissioner Avila additionally stated, “I am concerned that there is new mounting evidence of Zika virus affecting cognitive and memory areas of the brain in adults. Hence, the Zika dilemma goes beyond pregnant mothers and their unborn children. It now has the potential to affect National Security.” He urges Congress to work in a bi-partisan manner and appropriate the funds necessary to nullify the multifaceted societal sequelae of the Zika virus. “As with the start of other past and wide-spread epidemics, there is a lot we don’t know about the Zika Virus and its long-term effects, but we are learning. A year ago the average American never heard the word Zika and it is now a public health crisis which must be fought with mosquito control, medical research and patient education. As more and more cases come forward, it will change the course of the health care landscape. There is great opportunity here and now to take urgent proactive measures and stay ahead of this potential health crisis,” said Cornerstone Family Healthcare Chief Medical Officer Dr. Avi Silber. “Congressman Maloney has outlined the need for additional funding to fight the spread of the Zika virus, and we all should be concerned about the virus’ continued spread,” said Dr. Kristine Young, SUNY Orange president. “SUNY Orange takes seriously its role as a contributor to the health, well-being and vibrancy of Orange County and the Hudson Valley. For the past 16 years, SUNY Orange has maintained a wonderful partnership with the Orange County Department of Health and the New York State Department of Health. Through grant funding, the College hires and trains current and former students in the trapping and identification of mosquito species that are known to carry specific viruses. Through this collaborative partnership, our students take their classroom education into the field in settings that augment their learning, while at the same time contributing to the well-being of our region. Partnerships and projects such as this pay huge dividends for our students, our faculty members, the College and the community.” Rep. Maloney is a co-sponsor of H.R. 5044, which was introduced in April and provides $1.9 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations to the Departments of State and Health and Human Services (HHS) to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the Zika virus. This legislation would provide $740 million towards expanding mosquito control programs, empowering state and local partners to work with federal agencies in educational programs and quick response outbreaks, $246 million for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to expand healthcare services for pregnant women and children with Zika-related birth defects, $277 million to NIH for research and development of vaccines, and $188 million to the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency to research Zika vaccines. In June, Rep. Maloney joined his colleagues in signing a petition to force an immediate vote on the House Floor on this emergency funding. The petition currently has 165 signatures but needs 218 in order to force a vote. On July 29th, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) confirmed the first-ever transmission of the Zika virus by local mosquitoes in the United States. This brings the total number of Zika cases in the 50 United States to 2,517, including 584 pregnant women. The number of overall confirmed Zika cases is now 11,528 in the United States and its territories, including 1,396 pregnant women. Recently, Florida health officials have announced 43 cases of local transmission of Zika in Florida, and in an unprecedented move the CDC has issued travel advisories for two neighborhoods in Miami. While the number of overall confirmed cases continues to grow significantly, there have now been 16 babies born with Zika-related birth defects in the United States. In New York, 701 cases have been reported to the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH), 7 cases of which have been reported in Orange County. In Orange County, which has reported 7 cases of travel-related Zika, SUNY Orange and the Orange County Department of Health have collaborated on the Orange County West Nile Virus Mosquito Surveillance Project. This team traps mosquitoes at designated locations throughout the county, identifies target species that are known vectors for the West Nile virus, and sends those specimens to the NYSDOH to be tested for the presence of the virus. The mosquitos caught are now being tested for West Nile and Zika.
08.31.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after 18-year-old Newburgh Free Academy graduate Keyshan Gayle was shot and killed: “I am absolutely horrified that another promising young person has been taken from us too soon. Keyshan had just graduated and was preparing to go to college – he was poised to open the next chapter of his young life – but he has been robbed of his future. My heart breaks for his family, friends and fellow graduates at Newburgh Free Academy. We must stop burying our children. “I am committed to ending senseless gun violence in Newburgh – so folks once again feel safe to open a business or raise a family here. I’ve worked extensively with our first responders to secure resources to stop this type of violence and I will continue working with local officials to obtain federal funding for additional police officers on the beat and for tools like “Shot-Spotter Technology” to fight gun crimes. “As this is an active police investigation, I encourage anyone with information on this heinous murder to immediately report it to the Newburgh Police Department’s tip line at (845) 569-7555.” In June, following months of intensifying gun violence in Newburgh, Rep. Maloney called on the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), a division of the Department of Justice (DOJ), to make an immediate strategic investment in Shot Spotter Technology (SST) to help the city fight gun violence. The city applied for the technology as part of the BJA’s Technology Innovation for Public Safety (TIPS) program. Newburgh police often rely solely on community reporting to locate perpetrators of gun violence. These reports can be inconsistent or inaccurate. The investment would provide four square miles of the City of Newburgh with audio sensors, which can pinpoint the location of the gunfire, detect the frequency of gunfire, and identify the type of firearm used.
08.31.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced a federal investment of $65,160 to the Orange County Airport to ensure the facility complies with new FAA safety standardization efforts. This is the first of four investments, which will culminate with removal of possible obstructions to safe operation such as trees and nearby structures, and also ensure the lighting and paint comply with FAA regulations. “Securing federal investments to develop safe and sustainable infrastructure not only grows our economy, but is also an important first step in ensuring our airport exceeds critical safety regulations,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working with our local, state, and federal officials we can ensure this airport continues to safely serve thousands of Hudson Valley aviators and nearby residents.” “This grant will greatly enhance Orange County Airport’s effort to maintain a safe air traffic environment that is free of obstructions. By removing these obstacles in the vicinity of the airport, we can ensure a safe facility for all piloted aircraft,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “I appreciate Congressman Maloney’s assistance in obtaining these important funds.” The initial investment will fund a study to assess possible physical obstructions to safe air travel in the immediate vicinity of the airport. The following three phases include planning and the eventual removal of possible obstructions. The majority of potential concerns around the airport are tall trees, which obstruct visibility and limit available airspace. The project will also include streamlining lighting systems and even the color of paint on nearby structures to improve safety and visibility. Since taking office, Representative Maloney has made infrastructure development and safety a top priority and has secured nearly $17 million for the Orange County Airport alone. Most recently, Maloney announced an investment of over $6.8 million to build a new runway, create a runway safety zone, and relocate the runway away from the Wallkill River. In May, Rep. Maloney introduced the bipartisan Air Traffic Controller Act to close dangerous gaps in the employment of air traffic controllers. The bill passed the House of Representatives in July. There are currently 150 aircraft based at Orange County Airport, as well as three aircraft maintenance service businesses, a flight school, and restaurant. The airport is located at 500 Dunn Road in Montgomery.
08.31.2016	Hudson Valley, N.Y. – U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representatives Eliot Engel, Nita Lowey, and Sean Patrick Maloney urged the U.S. Coast Guard to extend the public comment period for the proposed plan to add ten new designated anchorage areas along the Hudson River. With the original comment period scheduled to close on September 7, 2016, the members are calling for an additional 90-day extension to allow residents the opportunity to learn and fully express their comments and concerns about the potential impact the proposal would have in the region. “We want to ensure that the process addresses the concerns of the communities along the Hudson River, provides sufficient opportunities for their input,” said the members in their joint letter to the U.S. Coast Guard. “We believe a reasonable extension of the comment period would better enable the US Coast Guard to work in conjunction with local, state, and federals agencies and experts to find the optimal plan to ensure the safety and integrity of the Hudson Valley region and the Hudson River, its environment and its economic vitality.” A copy of their letter to the USCG can be seen HERE:
08.26.2016	Washington — After a judge in Georgia sentenced Martin Blackwell to 40 years in prison for assault for pouring boiling water on two gay men as they slept, LGBT Equality Caucus Co-chairs Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney and David Cicilline sent a letter to FBI Director James Comey calling on the FBI to continue the Bureau’s hate crime investigation in spite of the state sentence. Under 18 U.S. Code § 249, hate crimes are punishable if the sentence obtained is left “demonstrably unvindicated” in “eradicating bias-motivated violence” or if it fails to secure “substantial justice.” Although the FBI reportedly opened an investigation into this incident in March, there has been no further comment on the investigation in light of the state sentence. “During my time working in the White House, I was sent by President Clinton to Wyoming to attend Matthew Shepard’s funeral, and I will never forget the pain his family experienced,” said Maloney. “While Martin Blackwell was sentenced to 40 years in prison there will be no justice until he is held accountable for this violent hate crime - I will not stop fighting for the LGBT community until we feel safe to love who we love freely.” “The horrific and despicable attack against two gay Atlanta residents last February is an assault on our core American values of freedom and equality. In 2016, no American should have to live their life in fear of discrimination or violence because of who they are or who they love,” said Rep. Cicilline. “Since Georgia lacks a hate crime statute, I hope that the Federal Bureau of Investigation will prosecute this vicious crime to the full extent of the law and make it unmistakably clear that bias-motivated violence has no place in our society.” The full text of the letter is available below: Honorable James B. Comey Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Comey, We write today to commend the Federal Bureau of Investigation for investigating a possible hate crime which took place in Atlanta, Georgia, and wish to underscore the importance of fully prosecuting this heinous crime in spite of a recent sentence from a state court. In February of 2016, two gay men who reside in Atlanta were brutally attacked by a man who doused the men in boiling hot water while they slept. Both men experienced extreme injuries as a result of the attack; one victim was even placed in a medically-induced coma. The suspect in the case, Martin Blackwell, was recently sentenced to 40 years in prison, but will not be charged with a hate crime. Although Mr. Blackwell has been convicted of assault, Georgia does not have a hate crime statute, meaning this crime could not be recorded or prosecuted as such. This sentence fails to satisfy the public interest in eradicating bias-motivated violence, and fails to secure substantial justice, and we thank you for investigating this case to ensure that justice is served. Shortly before the attack, one of the young men reportedly came out to his family as gay. Additionally, after pouring boiling water on the men as they slept, Blackwell allegedly told the couple, “get out of my house with all that gay shit.” This crime was clearly influenced by animus against the young men because of their identity. It is our contention that the federal government has a responsibility to investigate this case as a hate crime to satisfy the public interest of deterring violence against minority groups and commend your efforts on this matter. Negative media attention and a simple assault sentence, however severe; do not satisfy the public interest of discouraging hate crimes by taking tangible legal action against those who commit such crimes. Especially in light of recent discord in our society and a growing climate of unease, we believe that it would be irresponsible to allow hate crimes to go unpunished. The FBI has the opportunity to send a clear message in this case that hate crimes will not be tolerated, and we encourage you to continue your efforts to prosecute this case regardless of the sentence handed-down by the State of Georgia. We look forward to your prompt response.
08.26.2016	Newburgh, NY - On Monday, August 29th beginning at 11:00 AM, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will host a free grants workshop for Hudson Valley fire departments. The workshop will provide resources and assistance to help fire departments secure federal funding to hire additional firefighters, and purchase new equipment or replace outdated life-saving equipment. Previous attendees have successfully applied for federal funding. The workshop will take place in the great room of Kaplan Hall on the Campus of SUNY Orange in Newburgh. “The men and women of our Hudson Valley fire departments risk life and limb on a daily basis to keep our families safe, and we owe it to them to ensure they have the resources they need to do their jobs safely,” said Rep. Maloney. “I want to get things done for our local communities and it’s been my honor to work alongside so many firefighters to secure key federal investments that help protect our families and businesses. I look forward to providing assistance at our grants workshop and will continue doing everything in my power to help our local first responders secure the resources they need to stay safe and keep saving lives.” Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for local fire departments. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Rep. Maloney has secured a total of $9,084,511 for Hudson Valley fire departments, including over $4,710,216 for Newburgh and nearly $1 million for Poughkeepsie. He also worked alongside the Newburgh Fire Department to secure public and private funding to purchase a state of the art fire boat, which will protect 70 nautical miles of the Hudson River. In addition to his efforts to secure funding for local fire departments, Rep. Maloney was also a proud cosponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which extended an existing program to help first responders who were injured during their service on 9/11.
08.24.2016	Poughkeepsie, NY — After joining the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) in Albany on Monday, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Assemblyman Frank Skartados, Mayor Rob Rolison, and local stakeholders in Poughkeepsie to outline concerns about the effectiveness of the current cleanup strategy to remediate PCBs in the Hudson River. Currently, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is conducting a five-year review to determine the status of PCBs in the Hudson River. “The risk posed by PCBs remaining in the Hudson River is very real and I have seriously concerns about the effectiveness of the current cleanup strategy,” said Rep. Maloney. “Folks in the Hudson Valley are the gatekeepers of the Hudson River - it’s our home and an economic engine for our local cities – but unfortunately the Hudson and surrounding communities here have suffered through generations of abuse. The EPA must ensure that we work to end the toxic legacy of PCB contamination – making the Hudson clean once and for all.” On Monday August 22nd, Rep. Maloney joined NYS DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos, Scenic Hudson, and Riverkeeper in Albany to encourage the EPA to ensure a remedy that results in the long-term cleanup of the Hudson River. This announcement came after a meeting Rep. Maloney helped to convene in July between Scenic Hudson and the DEC Commissioner Seggos. At that meeting, attendees discussed ways to work together in reviewing the effectiveness of the remedy and calling on the EPA to take action. In addition, Rep. Maloney helped facilitate a meeting between Scenic Hudson and the EPA in December 2015 that resulted in the EPA’s decision to move up the next 5-year review to 2016 from 2017. “PCBs pose a serious health risk to communities along the Hudson River who use the water for drinking, fishing and recreation. I commend the efforts of the DEC, Scenic Hudson, numerous environmental organizations, and Congressman Maloney for fighting to keep the Hudson clean,” said Assemblyman Frank Skartados. “For myself, and county executive Marcus Molinaro, there is enough uncertainty surrounding the scientific evidence that this suspension is warranted. This is holds too serious of an impact as it relates to public health, environmental and economic conditions in our Hudson River valley,” said Rob Rolison, Mayor of the City of Poughkeepsie. “Congressman Maloney's leadership has already dramatically changed the course of history of the Hudson. With this week's announcement by NYS Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Seggos that GE's completed cleanup of the Hudson is deficient, we are now better positioned than ever to achieve a clean and healthy Hudson River. The Cuomo Administration has not only indicated it will lead the fight for a comprehensive cleanup; it has also committed to dredging the Champlain Canal for the first time in decades. A comprehensive cleanup will not only improve the health and economy of the upper Hudson, it will also ensure the health of communities and businesses from the Mid-Hudson Region all the way to New York Harbor. We hope that citizens and elected officials at all levels of government will join Congressman Maloney and Governor Cuomo in demanding that EPA require GE to finish the job and restore the river's resources devastated by its PCBs for the past forty years,” said Ned Sullivan, President of Scenic Hudson. “Our communities cannot wait for another half-century for a cleaner Hudson River, while our fish are contaminated and our tourism and recreational opportunities suffer from the plague of PCBs," says Riverkeeper Staff Attorney Abigail Jones. “Evidence shows the PCBs in the Hudson River are not cleaned up. Evidence shows that fish will remain contaminated for decades longer than anticipated. Evidence shows that families continue to eat the fish. The simple fact is that failure of the fish consumption advisories is the failure of the cleanup. If we knew in 2002 what we know now, the additional PCBs would have been dredged without question. EPA must act now and require GE to dredge more PCBs. Finish the job, restore our River.” “Hudson River PCBs have real, measurable health effects on people who consume fish despite the Department of Health advisories not to. These are often people of low income or immigrants who depend on this source of food for their very subsistence. People in the upper Hudson can be also exposed simply by breathing PCBs that volatilize from contaminated sediments. A partial cleanup, while better than no remediation, is just not acceptable. We applaud the NY State DEC for joining our call for a more robust clean-up of Hudson River PCBs, as US Fish and Wildlife and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) have been doing, unheeded, for years,” said Manna Jo Greene, Environmental Director for Hudson River Sloop Clearwater.
08.22.2016	Wappingers Falls, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced that he has secured a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) investment of over $300,000 for Dutchess County Airport. This federal investment of $313,200 will be used to replace an Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) building and a snow removal building. Both structures protect critical safety equipment from adverse weather conditions, and allow the airport to comply with federal aviation safety requirements. “Dutchess County Airport infuses nearly $45 million into our local economy every year – creating jobs right here in Dutchess County. Working with local, state, and federal officials, this investment will ensure we upgrade and repair our transportation infrastructure while protecting passengers and critical safety equipment,” said Rep. Maloney. “We are grateful to Congressman Maloney for helping us to secure over $300,000 for the design of new Aircraft Rescue & Fire Fighting (ARFF) and Snow Removal Equipment (SRE) building at the Dutchess County Airport,” said Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro. “The creation of these updated facilities will provide airport personnel with the critical resources they need to do their job more efficiently and effectively, including direct access to water and adequate storage space for equipment. This funding will further enhance our efforts to improve operations at the airport while also providing maximum safety for airport personnel.” This investment will fund the first of two phases of renovation on each of the two buildings, and will be used primarily for design and planning. ARFF is a special category of firefighting which responds to fire emergencies at airports. The ARFF building houses equipment such as specialty fire engines which respond to aircraft-related emergencies. The snow-removal building houses snow plows and de-icing equipment necessary to make the airport functional during cold winter months. Keeping these vehicles safe from the elements will extend their life, and ensure they’re able to quickly and safely respond to potential emergencies and weather events. Shortly after taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney worked to save the Dutchess County Airport from closure as the result of federal sequestration. Rep. Maloney has also secured nearly $2 million for the Airport. In 2014, he worked with local leaders to secure $1 million to rehabilitate runways and install a new airfield lighting system. Last year, he secured over $500,000 to replace an existing airfield electrical vault. In May, Rep. Maloney introduced the bipartisan Air Traffic Controller Act to close dangerous gaps in the employment of air traffic controllers. The bill passed the House of Representatives in July.
08.18.2016	Arlington, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in response to reports that Arlington Fire officials came to an agreement today after the District Board of Commissioner’s ordered the removal of the American flag from local fire trucks. In addition, Rep. Maloney has requested a flag be flown over the Capitol in recognition of the service and patriotism of the Arlington Fire District. “I was surprised and disappointed by the Arlington Fire District Board of Commissioner’s decision to remove the American flag from our community’s fire trucks. The Hudson Valley’s bravest protect our families and communities and should be commended for their patriotism – not chastised for it. “I understand the Board’s safety concerns, but fire departments throughout the Hudson Valley – and across the country – display our flag with pride on their fire trucks, and the Arlington Fire District should be no exception. I’m glad that today the firefighters and commissioners were able to come to an agreement that allows our flag to proudly fly once again. “I also want our fire fighters to know I always stand with them – and I am sending a flag flown over the Capitol in recognition of their service and patriotism.”
08.18.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), State Senator Bill Larkin, Assemblyman James Skoufis, County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus, and local stakeholders called on the United States Coast Guard to hold additional public hearings and conduct an environmental impact study before expanding mooring infrastructure on the Hudson River. In addition, Rep. Maloney announced he sent a letter to the United States Coast Guard expressing environmental and public safety concerns, urging more public hearings and a thorough environmental impact study before the Coast Guard makes their decision. “My neighbors deserve to have their voices heard on issues that impact our environment, economy and public safety – especially when it comes to dangerous oil barges docked in their backyard. The Coast Guard must conduct an environmental impact study and hold public hearings as soon as possible before building new anchorages – and making our beautiful waterfronts and scenic Hudson River a parking lot for large oil ships,” said Rep. Maloney. "Since the mid 1990’s, New York State has spent millions of dollars to clean up and expand access to the Hudson River. As a result, countless recreational establishments and restaurants have sprouted up along the banks of the scenic Hudson. The new proposal to add additional anchorage grounds would be a massive step backward for our region, undermining our tourism industry and causing harm to our quality of life,” said Senator Bill Larkin. "The Coast Guard's hasty proposal threatens the environment, recreation, and quality of life in our community, plain and simple," said Assemblyman James Skoufis. "That's why I stand alongside Congressman Maloney and my colleagues in state government who are calling for significantly more scrutiny of the project. The Hudson River is one of our region's greatest assets and we ought to treat it as such.” “Newburgh’s waterfront and the rest of our Hudson River communities provide some of the best scenery in New York. Before allowing the mooring of large ships with little to no benefit to Orange County, we need to thoroughly investigate the potential impact on our scenic views, public safety and environment. I appreciate Congressman Maloney’s call for additional public hearings on this issue, which is a matter of public concern to residents who live, work near and enjoy the beautiful Hudson River,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “This living river is healing, and we need to take great care to understand if our actions today — like re-industrialization of the Hudson —is going to damage that important goal," said Riverkeeper President Paul Gallay. "The anchorages proposal is not about safety. It's about the oil. Industry itself has said that these anchorages are 'key to supporting trade' in oil exports. Accidents around the country have shown us that crude oil cannot be recovered if it is spilled. And crude oil is poison for life in the river.” “Scenic Hudson has helped to preserve the Hudson Valley’s scenic and natural resources, and our municipalities have worked to revitalize their priceless riverfronts. While it is important that the commercial vessels and their crews on the Hudson River have designated areas to rest or wait out storms and fog, if these new anchorages turn the Hudson River into a storage warehouse for barges filled with crude oil, it will undo all of our hard work. Scenic Hudson is concerned that once again, the Hudson Valley and its residents face unacceptable risk while receiving little or no benefit, and we call on the Coast Guard to hold public meetings on this proposal and take a hard look at its environmental and economic impacts before deciding to move forward,” said Audrey Friedrichsen, Land Use and Environmental Advocacy Attorney at Scenic Hudson. Earlier this year, the Coast Guard announced it was considering establishing new anchorage grounds in the Hudson River, between Yonkers and Kingston. The proposed locations include Newburgh, Marlboro, Montrose, Yonkers, Tompkins, Milton, Roseton, Big Rock Point, Port Ewen and Kingston. These new anchorage grounds would range from 21 to 65 feet and would accommodate commercial vessels, including oil barges, tugs, tows and pushboats. The full text of the letter is available below: August 18, 2016 Admiral Paul F. Zukunft Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard 2703 Martin Luther King Jr Ave SE Washington, DC 20020 Dear Admiral Zukunft: I write in regards to the Coast Guard’s solicitation for comments on the proposal to establish new anchorage grounds in the Hudson River between Yonkers, NY and Kingston, NY. I have significant concerns about the potential impacts of an expansion of mooring infrastructure on the Hudson River. Therefore, before moving forward with any proposal, the Coast Guard must convene public hearings and conduct a thorough environmental impact study. It’s essential that local stakeholders be engaged in this process and that their concerns be heard and addressed. The Hudson Valley is an extraordinary place – made so in large part because of the stunning environmental and ecological beauty of the region. Not only does a significant increase in docking capacity and the potential of an environmentally hazardous oil spill put that at risk, but added moorings could adversely impact the local small businesses that rely on tourism and sightseeing. In addition, housing a large number of oil barges along the Hudson raises important safety concerns that must be considered and addressed without delay. I appreciate all that the Coast Guard does to protect the American people. But before moving forward with any decision on mooring sites along the Hudson River, I hope that it takes the time to listen to folks in the Hudson Valley. Public safety and environmental concerns must be at the forefront of this decision making process. Thank you for your service and I look forward to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
08.17.2016	Newburgh, NY — After the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) base a state Superfund site, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to comply with the DEC’S request for a federal remediation program. Immediately after declaring Stewart ANG base an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site, DEC sent a letter to DoD requesting that they enter into a legally binding agreement to carry out a remediation program with the state and bear some of the cost. Following this request, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, requesting expeditious compliance with this request and “a commitment from the Department of Defense to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site.” “After successfully getting the Department of Defense to make Stewart ANG base their first priority nationwide, I am calling on the DoD to comply with state requests for a federal remediation program – ensuring Newburgh has access to clean and safe drinking water,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working together with state and federal officials we can make sure Newburgh will not shoulder the financial burden alone – and this Superfund designation is a critical step towards ensuring full remediation of Stewart ANG base without burdening hardworking families in Newburgh.” Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source without placing the financial burden on the City. On May 19, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. On June 8, after a strong push, Rep. Maloney announced that the DoD added Stewart ANG base to their review list and made the investigation into Newburgh water contamination a first priority. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan. The full text of the letter to Secretary Carter is available below: August 16, 2016 Ash Carter Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Sec Def Carter: As you know, recent testing found abnormally and unacceptably high levels of PFOA and PFOS contaminants in the drinking water supply of Newburgh, New York. Following these tests New York State undertook an investigation into the water contamination in Newburgh. That investigation showed extremely high levels of those contaminants in the immediate vicinity of Stewart Air National Guard Base. As a result, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) declared the site an Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site (Class 2), more commonly referred to as a state Superfund site. DEC has stated that this contamination represents “a significant threat to public health” and that the water supply contamination has likely come from the release of aqueous film-forming foam (AFFF) from Stewart Airport and Stewart Air National Guard Base. As such, DEC has requested commitment from the Department of Defense (DoD) to develop, implement, and finance a Remedial Program for the contamination site. I appreciate your willingness to meet my previous request to prioritize Stewart Air National Guard Base in DoD’s current review of military bases to test for groundwater contamination stemming from the use of fire-fighting foams. Given the evidence suggesting that the source of contamination in Newburgh’s drinking water is due to use of AFFF at Stewart, I request that DoD comply with DEC’s request for DoD to implement a Remedial Program and to enter into a legally binding agreement to address all site-related issues. There will undoubtedly be many issues to address going forward but the thousands of my constituents who rely on Newburgh’s water supply deserve to know that they and their families have access to clean water and that their government will not fail them again. Thank you for your service and I look forward to working with you on this. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
08.16.2016	Newburgh, NY – After securing over $2 million to prevent layoffs at the Newburgh Fire Department, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that his office has brought a total of $11,802,599 in federal grant investments to Hudson Valley police and fire departments since 2013. The total includes significant funding used to hire firefighters and police officers in both the City of Newburgh and Poughkeepsie, which have faced layoffs and fiscal challenges. Rep. Maloney also secured additional investments for first responders across the Hudson Valley, including critical life-saving personnel protective equipment for our first responders, a state-of-the-art fire and rescue boat, substantial awards for community policing efforts, and critical support to combat violence and drug related offenses on both sides of the Hudson River. “As a father, the safety and security of our families and communities is a top priority – which means making sure our local first responders have the tools and resources they need to keep us safe and protect themselves while on the job. I’m proud that working together we’ve gotten things done to make the Hudson Valley a safer place to live, work and raise a family – securing nearly $12 million in critical investments that ensure our brave men and women in uniform are fully staffed and they have the protective gear and equipment to do their jobs and save more lives,” said Maloney. “The City of Newburgh Fire Department is very fortunate to have Sean Patrick Maloney fighting side by side with us to protect this City. It is directly through his diligence that the Newburgh Fire Department can safely and efficiently protect our citizens, at a level that also protects our Firefighters from career ending injuries. Sean has given Newburgh a hand up when, financially, everything seemed hopeless. It is not often that you find anyone willing to commit to be a part of the solution, instead of just empty promises,” said Terry Ahlers, City of Newburgh Fire Chief. “Newburgh needed help, and Sean Patrick Maloney helped!” “Congressman Maloney has been a tremendous advocate for our efforts in making the City of Newburgh a safer place. The Congressman has provided us with invaluable assistance and support with federal funding for hiring police officers, community policing initiatives and bringing technology into our crime fighting strategies. Congressman Maloney’s dedication to public safety is equal to the men and women that wear the uniform every day. We are grateful that he is here in the City of Newburgh with us,” said Daniel Cameron, Chief of Police, City of Newburgh Police Department. “Our citizens are better protected and served when law enforcement has the support of government leaders, and the Putnam County Sheriff’s Office has received such support from Congressman Maloney,” said Sheriff Donald B. Smith. “We appreciate the congressman’s commitment to assist the Sheriff’s Office in obtaining grant funding under the federal High Impact Drug Trafficking Area (“HIDTA”) program. On behalf of all the members of the Putnam County Office of Sheriff and Correctional Facility, and all the residents of Putnam County, I thank Congressman Maloney for his efforts in helping to keep Putnam County safe and a great place to live, work and raise a family.” “The City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department would like to thank congressman Maloney for his tireless support in securing several critical grants. These grants helped with the hiring of 7 new Firefighters and Personal protective equipment totaling over 1.1 Million dollars. Without his assistance in securing these most need funds, the City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department would not be able to provide its residents and visitors the best fire and rescue service that it needs,” said Mark Johnson, Chief of Department, City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department. Since joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney has fought for significant investments to police and fire departments throughout the Hudson Valley. The majority of funding for fire departments was directed at maintaining equipment and operations, and to protect current jobs and hire more firefighters. Funding for police was used primarily to hire more police officers and fortify community policing efforts. Rep. Maloney not only secured investments to support our police and firefighters, he also was instrumental in relocating the Resident Agency of the FBI from Goshen to New Windsor. This unprecedented move centralized law enforcement resources, and provided for increased collaboration among federal, state and local departments throughout the Hudson Valley. In addition to working alongside the local departments, Maloney has supported legislation that has increased funding throughout the law enforcement community. Maloney successfully worked to designate Putnam and Dutchess counties as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs), qualifying them to receive increased federal investments to fight drug trafficking and its associated criminal activity. Aside from the efforts to secure more than $11 million for first responders and pass critical legislation that supports their mission, Representative Maloney was a proud cosponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which extended an existing program to help first responders who were injured during their service on 9/11. A comprehensive list and breakdown of federal grant investments in Hudson Valley police and fire departments can be found here.
08.10.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a federal investment of over $52,000 for the New Hampton Fire Department to secure new life-saving breathing equipment. This investment, secured through the federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program, will allow for new compressor systems for breathing equipment, also-known as SCBA or self-contained breathing apparatus. The New Hampton Fire Department is set to receive $52,334 for this new equipment. “Our local firefighters protect our communities and keep our families safe from harm - they should have the equipment they need to do their jobs quickly and safely. Working together we’ve made critical investments in our Hudson Valley fire departments and together we will continue to ensure they have the protective gear and equipment to do their jobs and save more lives,” said Rep. Maloney. “The Fire Commissioners, Officers and Members of the New Hampton Fire District are excited to partner with Representative Maloney and Senator Schumer in the announcement of this award. We try very hard to be responsible custodians of the taxpayers money and the equipment we will be able to purchase as a result of this grant will take a huge burden off of the taxpayer. This grant will help us keep fire protection taxes as low as possible, while continuing to train with modern, up to date equipment and allow us to provide the best fire protection we can to the citizens and businesses of the New Hampton Fire District,” said Terence Reynolds, Asst Fire Chief, New Hampton Fire District. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants are administered by the Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the Department's United States Fire Administration. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.firegrantsupport.com/. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for local fire departments. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Maloney has secured a total of $9,084,511 for Hudson Valley fire departments, including over $4,710,216 for Newburgh and nearly $1 million for Poughkeepsie. Although their initial grant application was denied in 2013, Rep. Maloney worked closely with the Newburgh Fire Department and FEMA to ensure the Department received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.4 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. When twelve firefighters faced layoffs if FEMA did not renew the Newburgh Fire Department’s application in December 2015, Maloney worked with FEMA, the City of Newburgh, and the Newburgh Fire Department to prevent layoffs. Once again, in July 2016, when Newburgh faced additional layoffs, Rep. Maloney fought to secure a SAFER award of $2 million to prevent 17 layoffs. This kind of follow-up SAFER award is rarely granted, but Maloney has worked since last year to secure the necessary funding.
08.05.2016	Newburgh, NY – Following reports of homeownership dipping to its lowest level since 1965, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has renewed calls for passage of legislation he introduced last year to make it easier for first-time homebuyers to save for a down payment. Current law allows first time homebuyers to make penalty-free withdrawals from their IRA to go toward the purchase of a home. However, the current limit of $10,000, which was enacted nearly 20 years ago and not indexed to inflation, has not kept up with rising costs and stagnating wages. Rep. Maloney’s bipartisan First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act would help the law catch up, by increasing the limit to $25,000 for first time homebuyers. “Sky-high rents, stagnating wages, and crushing student loans have put the American Dream of homeownership even further out of reach for most families,” said Maloney. “Instead of putting more obstacles in the way, we should give every American who works hard, saves up, and makes smart choices the chance to buy their own home. Period.” "We support homeownership because we know homeownership is the foundation of every community,” said Faith Moore, Executive Director of the Orange County Rural Development Advisory Corp. “The First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act will offer access to money for renters to transition into a safe, affordable home. Housing counselors can use this new provision within their tool box of assistance, sharing this opportunity during first-time homebuyer education classes and one-on-one consultations.” "We strongly support Congressman Maloney's First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act," said Co-Executive Director, Dianne Chipman, of the Putnam County Housing Corporation. "Putnam County Housing Corporation's Housing Needs Assessment (January 2014) prepared by the Center for Housing Solutions, Pattern for Progress revealed, 'Eighty-eight percent (88%) of owners and renters in Putnam County, regardless of income level, are living in Unaffordable and Severely Cost Burdened Housing. This bill would assist more young individuals and families in realizing the dream of owning a home in their community." “This legislation would be a great benefit to potential homeowners in the Hudson Valley area, where home prices tend to be substantially higher than in other regions of New York State,” said Hudson Gateway Association of Realtors President Drew Kessler.” “This will give more first-time homeowners the opportunity to acquire the necessary funds - - without penalties -- to make a viable down payment on a home.” added Hudson Gateway Association of Realtors CEO Richard Haggerty. “Many would be first-time home buyers are getting shut out of the market by rising rents and student loans, which limit a borrower's ability to save for down payment. Buying a home when you are ready - and many are if not for rising hurdle of down payments - means asset-building well into the future, including the ability to ride out market downturns and benefit from long-term asset appreciation. This bill can help young families, and help us reverse the decline of first-time homeownership,” said Doug Ryan, Director of Affordable Homeownership for the Corporation for Enterprise Development. “Allowing savers greater access to their IRAs for the purchase of a home will allow more households to take advantage of an existing and underutilized vehicle that allows for tax-deferred wealth building. It could encourage young households to start saving at a younger age, because of the increased resource available for a home purchase from an IRA. NHC believes this legislation is one important tool, among many, that promotes affordable homeownership,” wrote Chris Estes, President and CEO of the National Housing Conference. “The bill introduced by Rep. Maloney would be a great benefit to Americans pursuing the dream of home ownership,” said Jules Gaudreau, president of the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors. “Saving for retirement and purchasing a first home can both contribute to the long-term financial security of American families. Penalty-free IRA withdrawals, in amounts high enough to be meaningful in the current market, will make all the difference for many families struggling to come up with down payments.” A recent study by the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University found that more than half of all renters in the lower Hudson Valley are suffering from “severe cost burdens” associated with housing. The study defines cost burdened households as those which pay at least 30% of their monthly income on rent alone. If more than half of renters in a given area are cost burdened, the areas is considered “severely cost-burdened.” Rising rent costs have made it increasingly difficult for young people and middle and low income-earners to save enough to make a down payment on a home. Under current law, a first time homebuyer can withdraw up to $10,000 from an IRA before retirement without incurring a penalty if the funds will be applied to a down payment on a home. The First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act would raise the penalty-free withdrawal rate to $25,000. The change would further incentivize taking proactive steps to save to buy a home. The bill has been endorsed by the National Association of Realtors, National Association of Home Builders, Mortgage Bankers Association, American Land Title Association, National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors, National Association of Real Estate Brokers, Corporation for Enterprise Development, and the National Housing Conference. It’s also been endorsed by a number of groups in the Hudson Valley including Orange County Rural Development Advisory Group, the Hudson Gateway Association of Realtors and the Putnam County Housing Corporation.
07.27.2016	Newburgh, NY – After working side-by-side with the Newburgh Fire Department, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that he secured another major Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) SAFER grant investment of $2,061,516 to keep the city’s department fully staffed. The funding will be used to prevent laying off 17 firefighters, allow the department to hire six new firefighters, and will raise the strength of force of the department to approximately 70. In March, Maloney joined the Newburgh Fire Department in calling for the approval of this grant and wrote a letter of support for this federal investment, warning FEMA of impending layoffs without federal action. “Since my first days on the job I’ve worked hand-in-glove with our local Newburgh Fire Department to ensure they have the manpower, resources, and equipment needed to do their jobs safely and protect our families,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working together with Chief Ahlers, the City of Newburgh, and FEMA we were able to secure an additional federal investment in the nick of time – preventing layoffs, and making sure our heroes get the support they deserve.” “There is no way we could have secured this grant without Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney,” said Newburgh Fire Chief Terri Ahlers. “With this grant not only have we avoided layoffs, but we now have the manning to keep our firefighters at safe levels. We will now have the people to keep our crews large enough to help avoid injuries, get our hoselines in place quicker to keep fires smaller, and the ability to work more efficiently to get to victims in time. Hopefully, with this hand up, our city can afford to continue with the proper manning levels at the close of this grant.” Maloney has a track record of getting things done for local fire departments. Since joining Congress in January 2013, Maloney has secured a total of $9,032,177 for Hudson Valley fire departments, including over $4,710,216 for Newburgh and nearly $1 million for Poughkeepsie. Although their initial grant application was denied in 2013, Rep. Maloney worked closely with the Newburgh Fire Department and FEMA to ensure the Department received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.4 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. When twelve firefighters faced layoffs if FEMA did not renew the Newburgh Fire Department’s application in December 2015, Maloney worked with FEMA, the City of Newburgh, and the Newburgh Fire Department to prevent layoffs. This kind of follow-up SAFER award is rarely granted, but Maloney has worked since last year to secure the necessary funding. In March, he also wrote a letter in support of Newburgh’s application for this investment. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program
07.20.2016	Newburgh, NY — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney continued his “Made in New York” tour with stops at three Hudson Valley employers in Orange County. He met with business owners and employees and talked about ways to expand manufacturing, grow the economy and create jobs in New York. During the tour, Rep. Maloney visited Takasago International Corporation in Harriman, President Container in Middletown, and GTI Graphic Technology in Newburgh. “I started my own business, so I know firsthand that the private sector is America’s job creation engine – and meeting with local employers and talking to workers is the best way I can hear about their ideas to bring jobs back to New York, specifically high-tech manufacturing jobs,” said Maloney. “Manufacturing is so important to our country, and we have to work with business leaders and elected officials at all levels to strengthen it and get qualified, hardworking Americans working again.” “We are very pleased that Congressman Maloney continues to take an interest in the success of manufacturing firms in his district,” said Harold King, Executive Vice President of The Council of Industry. “The success of firms like President Container and GTI are vital to our regional economy. Congressman Maloney has a well-deserved reputation as a problem solver, and the more familiar the Congressman is with the challenges and opportunities facing these companies the more he will be able to bring those problem solving skills to bear to help them thrive in the Hudson Valley.” As part of Rep. Maloney’s “Made in New York” tour, he has stopped by dozens of businesses in the Hudson Valley, including Thornwillow Press in Newburgh, and Nexans in Chester. He has also hosted main street tours across the Hudson Valley, including in Mahopac, Wappingers Falls, Goshen, Middletown, and Highland Falls. During his first term in Congress, Rep. Maloney and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand introduced the bicameral Made in America Manufacturing Act to revitalize domestic manufacturing by encouraging states and regional public-private partnerships to design comprehensive strategies to spur local manufacturing. Last year, the Council of Industry named Rep. Maloney a “Manufacturing Champion” for his support of local manufacturing. Takasago International is a major global producer of flavors and fragrances headquartered in Japan. Takasago provides fragrances and flavors to producers throughout the world and have offices in New York and other cities throughout the world. President Container is one of the largest manufacturers of corrugated boxes and point of purchase displays in North America. Founded in 1947, the company has integrated sustainability as a primary concern in manufacturing, and is the proud home to the largest privately-owned solar farm in the State of New York. CTI Graphic Technology is an international high-tech company which focuses on lighting systems and color services used in the textile, plastics, paint, automotive, food, retails and cosmetics industries.
07.18.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after a murderer took the lives of three law enforcement officers in Baton Rouge, LA: “The men and women of law enforcement leave their families every day, and put their lives on the line to make our communities better. Words fail to describe the depth of sadness I feel today with the news of the murder of three more police officers in Baton Rouge, LA. “These abhorrent attacks on public servants are attacks on all of us, on our common security and safety, and on the very values of decency and unity we need now more than ever.”
07.15.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the terrorist attack in Nice, France. “I am devastated to hear of yet another horrific terrorist attack in France. Once again the people of France have suffered a terrible and unimaginable loss - my heart is with the French people tonight. “The threats posed by radical Islamic terrorism are real, both for our country and our allies, but I cannot be more clear – the United States and our allies will destroy ISIS and those like them. As long as these terrorists continue to target and murder innocent people – whether in the United States or abroad - we will be relentless in our pursuit of their destruction.”
07.14.2016	Washington – A month after the horrific murder of 49 Americans at an LGBT night club in Orlando, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced the LGBT Providing a Requirement to Improve Data Collection Efforts (PRIDE) Act, which would enhance the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS) by calling for improvements to its data collection on sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as providing full funding authorization to bring the system to all 50 states. Various barriers exist to the collection of data on sexual orientation and gender identity, and the NVDRS does not operate in Florida, meaning the lives lost in the Orlando attack will not be recorded as anti-LGBT murders in any data collection. “After last month’s terrorist attack targeting our LGBT community, I was shocked to learn that the lives lost in Orlando will not be counted as anti-LGBT murders because our country’s data collection on violence against LGBT Americans and LGBT suicides is offensively inadequate,” said Maloney, co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “LGBT people matter, we count, and my new bill will ensure that states like Florida have the tools to collect data in a comprehensive way, and to ensure that we’re doing everything we can to understand where, how, and why violence against the LGBT community and LGBT suicides are happening – this bill could save lives.” “LGBTQ people experience significant health disparities resulting from societal stigma, discrimination and victimization. Having complete and accurate data is essential to address these issues,” said David Stacy, Government Affairs Director for the Human Rights Campaign. “We commend Rep. Maloney for his leadership to improve the reporting of sexual orientation and gender identity to the National Violet Death Reporting System which will improve the development of effective interventions and prevention efforts to help save lives.” “We thank Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney for taking the first step to ensure the U.S. conducts comprehensive research regarding suicide in the LGBTQ community,” said Abbe Land, Executive Director and CEO of The Trevor Project. “We know that LGBTQ youth are at high risk of suicide attempts, but we don’t know if that also equates to a high percentage of suicide deaths. As the saying goes ‘if you’re not counted, you don’t count’, and we must begin to ascertain the sexual orientation and gender identity of every suicide death that occurs so we can better target resources and interventions to save lives.” The LGBT PRIDE Act would authorize $25 million to fully fund the expansion of the NVDRS, operated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to all fifty states. It currently does not operate in California, Texas, or Florida, which collectively account for nearly a third of the U.S. population. The system aggregates data from a variety of local sources including death certificates, coroner/medical examiner reports, police reports, and crime labs. This data is used to inform policy and regulatory decisions aimed at responding to public health crises such as suicide and homicide at the local, federal, and state level. The bill also encourages the CDC to devise strategies to improve the incidence of data collection on sexual orientation and gender identity. The system currently has the ability to collect data on sexual orientation and gender identity, but various barriers exist to comprehensive collection. All data collection is performed on a voluntary basis, and the results are only released in aggregate to protect the privacy of decedents. This bill has been endorsed by the Human Rights Campaign, the Trevor Project, PFLAG, the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network (GLSEN), and the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD). Fellow LGBT Equality Caucus co-chairs Mark Pocan, Mark Takano, and David Cicilline are also original cosponsors. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
07.13.2016	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that three of his bills to support veterans have passed the House of Representatives, which marks 33 pieces of legislation passed the House since joining Congress. Rep. Maloney’s Air Traffic Controller Act was included in H.R. 636, the FAA Extension, Safety and Security Act of 2016, which would improve hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers and facilitate the hiring of more veteran controllers. In addition, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 contained two legislative proposals, which he introduced, to ensure disabled veterans receive specialized treatment and loan forgiveness. “My father was a navy veteran who was nearly killed serving his country, so ensuring we take care of Hudson Valley veterans – especially those who were hurt during their time of service – is a top priority for me,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working through Washington gridlock, I will continue to find partners on the other side of the aisle to make sure we keep our promises to our vets and get things done for all of my neighbors in the Hudson Valley.” Introduced in May, the Air Traffic Controller Act would improve the hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers at the FAA. America is on the precipice of an Air Traffic Control crisis, as older controllers retire faster than new controllers can be hired and trained. The Air Traffic Controller Act would clear out redundant bureaucratic hurdles to speed the hiring of more controllers as opposed to slowing it down. It would also prioritize hiring veterans and Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI) graduates by placing them in a separate hiring pool from the general public and requires the FAA to select veterans for vacancies without subjecting them to FAA’s biographical assessment. It would also recommend the FAA to recruit experienced controllers, including military and Depart of Defense civilian controllers, Federal Contract Tower controllers, and those with prior FAA experience. “Millions of New Yorkers rely on our airports for safe, efficient and convenient travel every year – helping to grow our economy and create jobs,” said Rep. Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “My bill will make sure our airports are adequately staffed and give our veterans the chance to find meaningful, good paying jobs when they come home - keeping our runways and skies safe for all travelers." Introduced in March, the Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act will ensure greater cooperation between the Department of Education, VA, and Department of Defense by establishing a system for transferring relevant information for veterans with 100-percent service-connected disabilities who have outstanding loans. Many of these veterans are unaware that they are eligible for this benefit, and currently, the executive agencies are not required to communicate or disseminate information to qualified veterans. This legislation has been endorsed by: Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), The American Veterans (AMVETS), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), and the Student Veterans of America (SVA). “When my dad came home from the Navy, his country had his back and helped him go to college on the GI Bill. But far too often these days, the burden is on our veterans to find and secure the benefits they earned while serving our country. We should be making it easier for our veterans to go to college, not harder,” said Rep. Maloney. “My legislation would cut through bureaucratic red tape and ensure that our disabled veterans get their student loans forgiven – a benefit they’ve been promised and earned but one they rarely get.” “Veterans with a 100-percent service-connected disability are entitled to loan forgiveness, yet the burden is on the veteran to ensure they get their loans forgiven. DAV supports Representative Maloney and commends him for introducing legislation that would cut through the red tape and ensure the veterans who sacrificed in service to our nation automatically get the student loan forgiveness they deserve,” said Paul Varela, Disabled American Veterans. In addition, the Appropriate Care for Disabled Veterans Act extends a mandate for the VA to report on its capacity for rehabilitating disabled veterans. To ensure the needs of disabled veterans were met, in 1996 Congress mandated that the VA maintain its capacity for the specialized treatment and rehabilitative needs of disabled veterans based on a number of specific measurements. For spinal cord injuries in particular, this capacity was to be measured by the number of staffed beds and the number of full-time employee equivalents available to provide care. The VA was also required to report this information to Congress after it was reviewed by the VA’s Office of the Inspector General. This reporting requirement has since lapsed. “It is critical that our veterans receive the best possible care when they come home,” said Rep. Maloney. “This legislation will hold the VA accountable for doing their job and delivering on their promise – providing top-notch comprehensive and specialized care for our veterans who have sacrificed so much in defense of our freedoms.” "PVA was pleased to see the provisions of H.R. 5091 included in the Milcon-VA conference report. The reinstatement of the requirement for VA to report its capacity to provide specialized services is a high priority for PVA. We are grateful to Congressman Maloney for his support and efforts on behalf of this much needed legislation,” said Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director, Government Relations, Paralyzed Veterans of America. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, despite Washington gridlock. In 2013, Rep. Maloney’s Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act was signed into law, which helped to address the Veterans Administration (VA)’s backlog of disability claims. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act was signed into law to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, the key employment program to help assist, train and find jobs for veterans who have compensable service-connected disabilities. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has worked to pass 33 bills through the House Of Representatives, 17 of which have since been signed into law. He has also secured over $3 million in guaranteed benefits for more than 800 Hudson Valley veterans and their family members who were owed education, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents’ compensation. Rep. Maloney has also hosted four veterans resources and jobs fairs with dozens of local veterans organizations, and has secured over 129 service medals, including 3 Bronze Star Medals and 3 Purple Hearts. A comprehensive list of Representative Maloney’s accomplishments can be found here.
07.12.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement regarding today’s House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on the First Amendment Defense Act (FADA). “This hateful bill would allow taxpayer dollars to fund organizations which are blatantly discriminatory against LGBT people, single parents, and unmarried couples – regardless of sexual orientation. It will allow individuals, businesses, and even nonprofit organizations like hospitals and preschools that receive federal funds to refuse service to millions of Americans – it’s wrong and it’s discriminatory. “Exactly one month after LGBT Americans were targeted and murdered in Orlando, rather than holding a hearing on a bill like the Equality Act to extend basic civil rights protections for LGBT people, these guys are holding a hearing on this horrible anti-LGBT legislation to fund discrimination – they should be ashamed. It’s part of a greater pattern of the party of Donald Trump and Paul Ryan deciding that certain types of people are worth less -- LGBT people, women, people of color, and immigrants. “Now is a time to come together – across all our lines of difference – and instead of focusing on what divides us, we must work together to make sure all Americans get equality and justice under the law.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
07.12.2016	Montgomery, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced an FAA investment of $6,866,280.00 for the Orange County Airport. The funds will be used for the second phase of construction for the airport’s new runway and allow Orange County to create a runway safety zone, and relocate the runway away from the Wallkill River in order to protect it from flooding and major storms. “The Orange County Airport is an economic engine for the county and the entire Hudson Valley community,” said Maloney. “This investment will create jobs and boost one of our region’s essential non-commercial airports while also preserving the health and safety of Orange County communities - working with County Executive Neuhaus we will continue to see construction through until we receive the final installment of this critical investment.” "We thank Congressman Maloney for his role in helping Orange County obtain funding that will expand and modernize our runway operations at Orange County Airport,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “Orange County Airport provides great opportunities for private and commercial aviation and is an important tool in our economic development toolbox." The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) grant for Orange County Airport will be used for the construction and realignment of Runway 3/21 and the associated taxiway, and allow for a standard runway safety area. This is the second phase in the construction project. In 2013, Rep. Maloney helped to secure funding for the design phase of this project, and announced a $2.9 million investment for the first phase of construction in 2014. Last year, Maloney announced an additional investment of over $5 million. The FAA Airport Improvement program is funded by aviation fees, including aviation fuel tax and passenger ticket fees. Maloney had previously secured nearly $11 million for the Orange County Airport, and over $1.5 million for the Dutchess County Airport. There are currently 150 aircraft based at Orange County Airport, as well as three aircraft maintenance service businesses, a flight school, and restaurant. The airport is located at 500 Dunn Road in Montgomery.
07.11.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after he attended his first United States Military Academy Board of Visitors (BOV) meeting on Monday, July 11th. “As the son of a Navy veteran, being asked to serve on the Board of Visitors is an honor and responsibility I take very seriously. Serving on the Board and attending today’s meeting is another way I can get things done for our community – including our future military leaders attending West Point,” said Rep. Maloney. “From day one, I have been focused on getting results for our veterans, our active-duty service members, and military families. I look forward to fighting for our men and women in uniform in this role while helping to prepare the next generation of military leaders to face an increasingly complex network of global threats.” After establishing a strong track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, active-duty military, and their families, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced he has been appointed by House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve on the United States Military Academy Board of Visitors (BOV). The BOV of West Point is similar to the Boards of Trustees or Regents at other institutions, and is charged with providing independent advice and recommendations regarding the Academy to the President of the United States. The BOV makes an annual visit to West Point to evaluate its operations and policy and then submits an official report to the President including details of their evaluation, and additional recommendations.
07.11.2016	Cornwall, NY – Following a roundtable with Hudson Valley farmers at Soons Orchard in April and extensive discussion with his agricultural advisory board, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced new legislation to help beginning farmers. The Beginning Farmer Agenda Act is a comprehensive approach to supporting the next generation of farmers. This bill would invest in land conservation to help new farmers acquire land, add new resources for farmers at USDA and invest in the development of local and regional food systems. “Our hardworking farmers create thousands of jobs and bring back over one hundred million dollars a year to our Hudson Valley economy,” said Rep. Maloney, Member of the House Agriculture Committee. “We need the next generation to power this incredible economic engine, but too often beginning farmers are feeling shut out – they deserve a government that is willing to be their partner. Working together to give our young and beginning farmers the tools they need to succeed, we can continue to grow local foods and jobs while powering our local economy for generations to come.” “Congressman Maloney has been a relentless advocate for the Hudson Valley’s agriculture community since day one,” said Assemblyman James Skoufis. “New farmers in their 20s and 30s often face significant, if not impossible, financial challenges to beginning a career in agriculture; Congressman Maloney’s legislation is critical to assisting our next generation of farmers develop their careers, preserve open space, and feed the millions of people in our region.” Rep. Maloney has heard from young farmers, especially in the Hudson Valley, that they are struggling to get access to the land, resources and markets. According to the most recent census data, Agriculture showed a 4.3% decline in the number of principal farmers compared with 2007. The report also found that the average age of principal farmers has continued to rise – causing concern amongst key stakeholders that the industry is not attracting enough new entrants to the industry. New York state has lost more than 4,000 farms since the 1980s. Today, less than 5% of farmland statewide is protected. New York’s agricultural industry generates billions of dollars for the state, and creates thousands of jobs. Particularly important in the Hudson Valley, estimates suggest that New York City alone has an unmet demand for locally sourced food of nearly $900m each year. The Beginning Farmer Agenda Act would: Invest in land conservation by making it easier for land trusts to protect farmland, offer capital gains exemptions to farmers that protect their land, and help to speed up the process for beginning farmers to qualify for USDA resources; Develop new resources at USDA –like self-service portals and regional coordinators for beginning farmer support, reauthorize the vital beginning farmer and rancher development program, and fund individual development accounts to help farmers save for purchases; and Invest in local and regional food systems by funding the farmers market and local food promotion program and helping to support programs that offer resources for farmers. “We applaud Congressman Maloney's leadership in addressing one of the greatest challenges facing agriculture in New York, and throughout the United States: bringing new and next generation farmers on to the land,” said David Haight, American Farmland Trust's New York State Director. "Nearly 30% of all farmers in New York are over 65 and will be transitioning out of farming in coming years, which puts their land at risk of being paved over by real estate development. At the same time, there is a diverse community of beginning farmers looking to get into farming but needing help in finding farmland and launching successful businesses. Congressman Maloney's Beginning Farmers Agenda Act proposes new and needed policies in advance of the next Farm Bill to protect farmland from development, make farmland more affordable to farmers, strengthen farm viability and help a new generation of farmers succeed in agriculture.” "In the next Farm Bill, we can rebuild the path for young Americans to succeed in agriculture. We thank Congressman Maloney for listening to Hudson Valley farmers and we look forward to standing with him to win the credit, affordable land, and modern USDA that we need,” said Lindsey Shute, Executive Director, National Young Farmers Coalition. “Over the past 16 years, GrowNYC has worked to develop the next generation of farmers, focusing specifically on those aspiring growers who have traditionally been left out of agriculture, yet bring critical skills and mirror the diversity of NYC,” says GrowNYC Executive Director Marcel Van Ooyen. “We applaud Congressman Maloney for the leadership he has shown since arriving in office to support the agricultural community, and specifically for his efforts with this bill to encourage farmland sales to beginning and socially disadvantaged farmers, expedite and expand farm ownership loans, and ensure grants to support farm viability programs.” "The Land Trust Alliance applauds Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for taking on the challenge of land access for beginning farmers and ranchers," said President Andrew Bowman, Land Trust Alliance. "As the average age of American farmers approaches 60, his bill recognizes and supports the important role of local land trusts in preserving affordable farmland for the next generation. The targeted incentives and regulatory fixes in this bill will help to secure the clean water, wildlife habitat, scenic beauty and nutritious local food that we all enjoy." “We want to thank Congressman Maloney for his wonderful leadership and sound understanding of the issues that young farmers face today, as exemplified by this Bill. We’ve seen a real resurgence in next generation farmers interested in establishing farm businesses; but the high cost of real estate in our area makes it difficult, if not impossible, for young farmers to buy land. And without land, you can’t farm. With a majority of the state’s farmland owned by landowners 55 and over, it’s time to concentrate efforts on helping young farmers establish a stable home and farm business, where they can build equity for the future, and where they can continue to provide fresh local food for our communities,” noted Becky Thornton, President, Dutchess Land Conservancy. “Scenic Hudson is proud to collaborate with Congressman Maloney to support young and beginning farmers in the Hudson Valley and across the country, and to protect the land that is critical to sustaining the operation of the farms that provide fresh and local food to our region. These are critical to the future of our agricultural and tourism economies. We thank the Congressman for recognizing this important relationship and introducing legislation that will strengthen our ability to work together,” said Althea Mullarkey, Public Policy Analyst, Scenic Hudson. Immediately after joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney hosted his first Agriculture Town Hall where he heard that Congress and the USDA must do a better job protecting hardworking farmers in the Hudson Valley – especially in the aftermath of devastating storms like Hurricane Irene. In response to this Town Hall, Rep. Maloney introduced his first bill, the bipartisan CROP Act, which aimed to reform crop insurance and invest in the specialty crop farmers who drive the Hudson Valley’s agricultural economy. Rep. Maloney’s CROP Act, along with other key priorities for the Hudson Valley, was included in the 2014 Farm Bill. Maloney is also a cosponsor of the Young Farmer Success Act, legislation designed to incentivize careers in farming. The bill would designate farming as a public service under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, and allow qualified applicants to receive full federal student loan forgiveness after ten years of on-time payments.
07.08.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after an attack during a non-violent protest in Dallas, TX killed 5 police officers and injured 7 others. "Last night's calculated murder of police officers in Dallas, TX was a painful and horrifying reminder of the sacrifices these heroic men and women make to keep our families safe. These police officers are emblematic of the values we cherish as a country, and we must honor their memories by coming together now across all our lines of difference to build respect and reduce violence in a stronger and safer America."
07.08.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced today that he has been named, as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, to serve on a conference committee of the House and Senate versions of the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). "Even after the tragic shooting in Orlando, House Republican Leadership have gone to great lengths to discriminate against hard-working LGBT Americans. They have rigged the vote, rigged the bill, and then changed the rules to rig the process in order to protect discrimination - they should be ashamed. This bill is about keeping Americans safe, not about writing anti-LGBT bigotry into federal law, and I won’t stand for it. As a conferee I will fight to ensure every word of the hateful Russell Amendment is removed from the NDAA,” said Rep. Maloney. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
07.07.2016	Washington – Today, U.S. Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the beginning of a new bicameral effort to fix America’s strained public defender system. Sen. Booker is introducing the Equal Justice Under Law Act of 2016, legislation that seeks to address the indigent defense crisis in many states throughout the country. In April, Rep. Maloney introduced the Equal Justice Under Law Act of 2016 in the House. The two will partner to advance the legislation through Congress. “The right to counsel is a constitutional right guaranteed to all Americans. Sadly, all too often our broken justice system falls short of providing this right, and the consequences of these shortcomings is felt most acutely in low-income communities all across this country,” Sen. Booker said. “The Equal Justice Under Law Act seeks to fill in the glaring gaps that have left too many Americans vulnerable and without adequate legal representation. I will continue to work relentlessly to better balance the scales of justice so that we can truly be a nation of liberty and justice for all.” “Fifty-three years after the Supreme Court reaffirmed our constitutional right to an attorney, public defenders are still juggling hundreds of cases and defendants are still meeting their lawyers only minutes before entering a guilty plea,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our criminal justice system is broken, and that disproportionately hurts poor Americans. The Equal Justice Under Law Act introduces a vital step to repair our broken system by giving indigent defendants the tools they need to secure their right to effective counsel before it is too late – giving all Americans, regardless of the size of their paycheck, equal justice under the law.” “In New Orleans, I see first-hand the human cost of the indigent defense crisis. Every day, Americans lose basic constitutional rights in overburdened and underfunded public defense systems. This legislation reaffirms a vital but unfulfilled principle: in this country, the rich and the poor have an equal right to a fair trial,” said Derwyn Bunton, Chief District Director, Orleans Parish. Across our nation, public defender systems are in crisis. Public defender offices—if one exists in a state at all—are consistently underfunded. As a result, attorneys dedicated to defending the poor in criminal cases are unable to do their jobs effectively because they are underpaid and overworked. According to a 2012 Brennan Center report, there are counties and states in America where public defenders are responsible more than 300 cases at one time. This phenomena is not unique. In fact, 75 percent of county-funded public defender offices have caseloads that exceed recommended standards. Even the most talented and efficient attorneys are not able to dedicate the requisite time and energy to fulfilling their duty to zealously represent a client with such large caseloads. The Equal Justice Under Law Act of 2016 would: · Create a federal cause of action that allows indigent criminal defendants to file a lawsuit against states and political subdivisions for systemic failures to provide effective assistance of counsel in felony cases; · Permit litigants to file a class action lawsuit against states and localities for systemic failures to provide effective assistance of counsel in felony cases; and · In the Senate version, it would require states to consult with representatives from the public defender community prior to distributing Byrne JAG funds. Given the high caseloads that take public defenders away from their clients' cases, it is unsurprising that nearly 95 percent of indigent criminal defendants forego their constitutional right to a jury trial and plead guilty. This is not how our legal system was meant to function. Failing to provide indigent criminal defendants with meaningful and competent representation is one of the many ways that our criminal justice system is broken. Rep. Maloney’s Equal Justice Under Law Act of 2016 is endorsed by the ACLU, Innocence Project, NAACP, Southern Poverty Law Center, National Association for Public Defense, National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, Pretrial Justice Institute, the Friends Committee on National Legislation, Children’s Defense Fund, The Constitution Project, Legal Aid Society, and The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “[This] bill would open the courthouse door to let people of challenged means vindicate their basic Gideon rights and help transform defective state public defense systems,” said Jonathan Gradess, Executive Director of New York State Defenders Association. “The Equal Justice Under Law Act would begin to address the flaws in our public defender system. By allowing a federal cause of action that allows a class of indigent defendants to sue in federal court for systemic violations of the Sixth Amendment on a pre-conviction basis, you are offering a constructive and effective solution,” said Hilary O Shelton, Senior Vice President for Policy & Advocacy, NAACP. “[An] important step towards ensuring that justice in our country is the same for the poor as for the rich,” Richard Cohen, President, Southern Poverty Law Center. In addition, Rep. Maloney’s legislation is co-sponsored by Representatives Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Cedric Richmond (LA-2), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), John Conyers (MI-13), John Lewis (GA-5), David Cicilline (RI-1), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Jose Serrano (NY-15), Charles Rangel (NY-13), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23).
07.06.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a major investment of over $80,000 for the Village of Fishkill and Arlington Fire Departments to replace aging and obsolete equipment. This investment, secured through the federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program, will allow Arlington to replace a 20 year old hose, and provide the resources for Fishkill to replace their Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) or “turnout gear” and outdated alerting radios. The Village of Fishkill Fire Department is set to receive $58,381 and the Arlington Fire District will receive $24,546 for this new equipment. “Our local heroes run into dangerous situations every day to keep our families and communities safe – and they should have the equipment they need to do so quickly and safely. Working together we can make federal investments in our fire departments and local firefighters to ensure they have the hoses, radios and protective gear they need to continue doing their jobs and saving lives,” said Rep. Maloney. “I would like to thank our Federal Elected Officials that provided Letters of Support for this important AFG grant and also acknowledge the Village Board and Village Emergency Response Coordinator Rad Wilson and our Grant Writer for their help in preparing for this grant. This grant will go a long way in protecting the Firefighters of the Village of Fishkill with up-to-date Turnout Gear and Alerting Radios," said Village of Fishkill Fire Chief Brandon Knapp. "The federal investment secured by Rep. Maloney will provide our firefighters with the equipment they need to effectively do their jobs," said Arlington Fire Chief Tory Gallante. "It will allow us to finally replace our aging fire hose without placing an increased burden on the local taxpayers." The Assistance to Firefighters Grants are administered by the Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the Department's United States Fire Administration. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.firegrantsupport.com/. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting results for Hudson Valley fire departments. In 2014, Rep. Maloney helped to secure $238,700 for the Arlington Fire District to replace outdated equipment with the purchase of new advanced life support monitors and defibrillators used by first responders to provide basic and advanced life support to patients in life-threatening conditions. Rep. Maloney also worked closely with the Newburgh Fire Department to secure a SAFER grant, which provided $2.5 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. In December, 2015, Rep. Maloney worked to secure additional funding and prevent layoffs. Rep. Maloney also announced he secured a SAFER grant for the City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department to hire seven new firefighters.
07.05.2016	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after The United States Military Academy at West Point announced that cadet Tom Surdyke died during leave: “I join the entire West Point community in grieving for Tom Surdyke the cadet who passed away this afternoon from injuries sustained while on leave. The loss of any young person is a true tragedy, but our hearts are especially heavy when we experience the loss of a young person who dedicated their life to the defense of our country. “Cadet Surdyke was a dedicated American who was lost too soon. His actions to sacrifice himself to save the life of a fellow Cadet embody the West Point motto of “Duty, Honor, Country.” My thoughts are with the family and the rest of the West Point community. “I will continue to monitor this situation as we receive more details. I once again wish to offer my condolences to the Surdyke family, and thank them for their son’s service and dedication to our country. Be thou at peace.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney represents the faculty and cadets of the United States Military Academy in Congress and was recently appointed to the West Point Board of Visitors by House Speaker Paul Ryan.
07.01.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that his office has secured over $6 million for Hudson Valley veterans, small businesses and families who were owed payments by the federal government. Rep. Maloney’s constituent advocates assisted over 3,500 individual constituents with cases involving the Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Approximately half of the funds were returned to over 800 veterans, service members, and their families. “I’m proud that despite Washington gridlock my office has been able to cut through the bureaucratic red tape to deliver over $6 million to my hardworking neighbors in the Hudson Valley,” said Maloney. “I want to get the government working for hardworking seniors, veterans, and small businesses in the Hudson Valley. My office is getting things done for folks in our community every day – if you or someone you know is having difficulties navigating the federal government, or simply needs help accessing the benefits you’re owed please contact my office in Newburgh.” "Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has worked tirelessly for the veteran community in his District. He has been a treasure to the Hudson Valley,” said Sergeant Richard R. Gerbeth Jr., Army Iraq War Veteran, Wappinger Falls, NY. “I know, because without the countless hours his office dedicated to securing my Army Commendation Medal with Valor upgrade, I would have never received it. I was fortunate to have been "pinned" by Representative Maloney on May 23rd of this year in a beautiful ceremony at Washington's Headquarters Historic site. Thank you Sean Patrick Maloney." “No matter how many calls, emails and correspondence, it was one hold up after another until I contacted the Office of US Representative Sean Patrick Maloney,” said Frank Dagele, Florida, NY. “Once I did that and his representative actually came out to the farm and met with me we were able to set a date for closing. In late April, we received $150,000 in storm recovery funds, this would not have been possible without our Congressman and his outstanding Office. They helped me get the funds from storms Irene and Lee, I cannot thank him enough.” “Congressman Maloney and his staff have been instrumental in helping my husband get disability benefits and me survivor VA benefit,” said Patricia Scott, Middletown, NY. “My husband was a Vietnam veteran who felt abandoned by the U.S. government in attaining 100% disability benefits. My husband met Congressman Maloney for the first time when Orange County Community College held an open house for veterans. His office contacted my husband right away and helped him get disability benefits.” “Until Congressman Maloney’s Office became involved, nothing was happening with Medicare access,” said Luigi Shkreli, Mahopac, NY. “It was a bureaucratic red tape mess and we broke through that and exceeded in quickly assisting an 83 year old in need and helping a family, that is what America is all about. Thank You Congressman Maloney for standing up for Senior Citizens in your district and country.”
06.30.2016	Washington – Following an official announcement from Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) released the following statement on the Pentagon’s decision to allow transgender Americans to openly serve their country: “I applaud the Pentagon’s monumental decision to allow our transgender brothers and sisters to serve openly in our nation’s armed forces. Any qualified American who wishes to serve and sacrifice on behalf of their country should be allowed to do so – regardless of race, religion, gender identity or sexual orientation. “Although some may disagree with this decision, the military has always been the site of social progress. From requiring racial integration over a decade before the rest of the country – to allowing women in combat roles – the military has been the site of proactive social integration for much of our nation’s proud history. “The integration of these troops may take time, but I am confident that America does better when we come together – across all lines of difference – to work together for our mutual benefit. I can think of no more admirable goal than all of our safety and security in the age of terrorism. I once again wish to thank Secretary Carter for his proactive investigation into this matter, and for his decision to welcome all Americans into our county’s armed forces.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.29.2016	Newburgh, NY - Building on his record of getting things done for our first responders, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined firefighters to deliver a new fire and rescue boat to the Newburgh Fire Department. Since 2013, Rep. Maloney has been working to secure funding for the Newburgh Fire Department and in July 2015 announced the successful attainment of a major Department of Homeland Security’s Port Security Program investment of $248,700 for the fire and rescue boat. “This fire boat will play a vital role in protecting our communities and commerce on the Hudson, and I’m thrilled to once again work with the Newburgh Fire Department to secure investments they need to keep us all safe,” said Maloney. “Our work with the Newburgh Fire Department and all of our first responders shows what is possible when you partner with folks to get things done for the Hudson Valley, instead of playing political games.” "This new Fire/Rescue boat is an incredible addition to our fire suppression and rescue capabilities. Our crew is now safer, with an extremely stable work platform,” said Newburgh Fire Department Chief Terry Ahlers. “We finally have the space to do the basic stuff, like CPR on the boat, instead of waiting until we can get a victim back to shore, which is very important when minutes, and even seconds count. We now have the ability to extinguish burning fuel with foam and pull booms, tasks not even possible with our last boat. Even with the award of the grant, we could not have secured the match without the assistance and support of Sean Patrick Maloney and his staff." Rep. Maloney joins the Newburgh Fire Department to unveil the new fire and rescue boat. The Newburgh Fire Department is tasked with protecting and responding to emergencies on the Hudson River between the Tappan Zee Bridge and the Kingston-Rhinecliff Bridge, a distance of 70 linear miles. The Department’s jurisdiction includes five major bridges and multiple riverfront communities. This portion of the Hudson River is also central to moving cargo and is utilized by major commercial shipping companies. As a result, increasing Newburgh Fire Department’s presence on the Hudson River will allow the implementation of additional public safety aspects to the region’s waterborne commerce, protect several homeland security targets, and ensure safe recreational experiences on the waterway during the summer months. The new vessel has fire suppression capabilities including both water and foam, which will allow the Department to safeguard against all risks to public safety, including residential fires, oil fires, and rail incidents. The boat also has the capacity to rescue a large amount of victims (25+) per response, should there ever be a catastrophic incident with several injuries on the Hudson. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting results for Hudson Valley fire departments. Rep. Maloney worked closely with the Newburgh Fire Department to secure a SAFER grant, which provided $2.5 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. In December, 2015, Rep. Maloney worked to secure additional funding and prevent layoffs. Rep. Maloney also announced he secured a SAFER grant for the City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department to hire seven new firefighters. ###
06.20.2016	Buchanan, NY — Following public safety concerns regarding faulty baffle bolts found in Indian Point Energy Center’s Unit 2, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called for a halt to efforts to restart Unit 2 until a more comprehensive review of the faulty bolts could be completed. Additionally, he called for an inspection of Unit 3. In a letter dated June 17th, Maloney called on the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to require Indian Point to discontinue use of Unit 2 until a root cause analysis that included metallurgical testing on the failed bolts was completed. “First and foremost we must take any safety concerns very seriously - reports of faulty baffle bolts are only the latest in a long line of incidents that show the facility is just too risky,” said Maloney. “Indian Point has no place in the long-term future of the Hudson Valley. It’s time to start winding down operations and shifting energy production to safer sources.” "We don't know what caused the degradation of the Unit 2 reactor's baffle bolts. It may be radiation, it may be thermal stress, or it may be corrosion. If the NRC doesn't know the root cause of this failure and will not know for months, what are they doing re-opening this reactor in the near term?" said Riverkeeper President Paul Gallay. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has called for an end to operations at Indian Point responsibly, which includes safeguarding the jobs of those who work there and keeping energy prices low. On March 29, Entergy, the corporation which owns the Indian Point Nuclear Energy Center, notified the NRC of an internal review which found that 227 of 832 baffle bolts, which are crucial to the plant’s safety, were degraded or missing. In response, Rep. Maloney sent a letter to NRC Chairman Stephen Burns. A copy of the letter can be found here and the full text is below. Dear Chairman Burns, I write regarding my strong concern with restarting operations at Indian Point Unit 2 without having completed a comprehensive root cause analysis that includes metallurgical testing of the failed baffle bolts. Because of the seriousness of the situation, I urge you to keep unit 2 offline until such an analysis can be completed. Additionally, I strongly encourage you to immediately conduct a safety review to determine the status of baffle bolts at Indian Point Unit 3. As you know, 227 of the 832 baffle bolts that hold the inner walls of the Indian Point Unit 2 core together were found to be missing or damaged. The plant’s owner, Entergy, in a report to the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission admitted this to be a condition that significantly degrades plant safety. The situation is extremely serious and represents a nearly unprecedented public safety hazard for an American nuclear facility. Leading experts have warned that degraded baffle bolts could result in a lack of structural stability in the reactor. This could lead to a major, catastrophic disaster that we must do all we can to prevent. This is just the most recent episode in over a decade of dangerous activity at Indian Point, from security lapses to serious safety violations. Simply put, there is no margin for error. While operational, Indian Point must be held to the absolute highest safety standards. That’s why a comprehensive root cause analysis of Unit 2 is so important, as is a safety review of Unit 3. The millions of people living and working within miles of the plant deserve nothing less. Thank you for your immediate attention to this extremely urgent and important matter. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
06.15.2016	Washington – After the tragic mass shooting in Orlando, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement condemning House Republican efforts to once again block Rep. Maloney’s amendment to ban LGBT discrimination in federal contracting. Last night, House Republicans blocked Rep. Maloney’s amendment in the Rules Committee, preventing it from coming to the floor for a vote as part of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2017. “Even after the tragic shooting in Orlando, giving LGBT Americans basic workplace protections is simply too much for House Republican Leadership - they refuse to even allow a vote. Americans deserve to know where their representative stands on discrimination – it’s time to stand up and be counted,” said Rep. Maloney, co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “Speaker Paul Ryan rigged the vote, rigged the bill, and then changed the rules to rig the process in order to protect discrimination, even in the aftermath of Orlando – they should be ashamed.” Rep. Maloney spoke at the Rules Committee in defense of his amendment and the victims in Orlando, his remarks are below: “Just days ago a terrorist gunned down 49 LGBT Americans and their friends and allies while they were simply having fun at a nightclub in Orlando, Florida – a place where they should feel safe and free. We’ve all prayed for the victims and their families, and talked about ways to stop these events from happening – whether it is defeating radical Islamic terrorism, or combatting gun violence. We can and should mourn these 49 innocent lives as Americans, and they were, but we should also recognize that they were targeted during Pride month because of who they were and who they loved. “I’ve said from the beginning that we should take our example from the brave parishioners in Charleston, South Carolina, who responded in the immediate aftermath to that horrific shooting by coming together in unity, with greater love and dignity. They also responded by acting and by recognizing that symbols and language matter – and across party lines, in a bipartisan fashion, South Carolinians banded together to rid themselves of symbols of hate. Because hate has no place on our flags, in our workplaces, or in our country. And it should have no place in federal law. “Right now, many of the survivors of this horrific attack in Orlando could go to work today and be fired simply because of who they are. In a majority of American states, it is absolutely legal to fire someone because of a perception or the reality of their sexual orientation or gender identity. This is wrong. “My amendment is simple, it says that no Department of Defense dollars can go to federal contractors who contravene President Obama’s 2014 Executive Order, which extended basic workplace protections to LGBT Americans. This is about basic civil rights. We had this debate on the House floor a couple weeks ago – and we showed that the majority of this House agrees that we should not discriminate against LGBT Americans in the workplace and we should not use taxpayer dollars for federal contractors who discriminate. All Americans were created equal, and it is our job to create a more perfect union. “My amendment is germane to the underlying bill in that it specifically speaks to the use of the dollars being appropriated and whether we stand in favor of this non-discrimination approach or against it, there should be no question it’s germane to this bill. So it is of course not whether you agree with this amendment or not, we can and should debate that, but I hope you will agree it is germane to the matter before the committee. Thank you Mr. Chairman.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.13.2016	Newburgh, NY – At a reception hosted by Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Rep. Maloney announced that 12 students from the Hudson Valley accepted offers of appointment to one of our nation’s four service academies. Rep. Maloney has the ability to nominate students to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. To assist with the nomination process, Rep. Maloney established an esteemed committee of military and civic leaders from the Hudson Valley that interviewed potential nominees, reviewed their applications and made recommendations. The Academies make the final decision on who receives an appointment of admission. “I am enormously proud of these young people from the Hudson Valley, and their offers of appointment to our nation’s service academies,” said Maloney, a member of the West Point Board of Visitors and the son of a navy veteran. “These courageous young men and women have chosen to serve our country – their dedication is inspiring - and I look forward to following their careers as they step into key leadership positions in our Armed services. Representing the staff and cadets of the United States Military Academy in Congress is a distinct honor and privilege, and I enjoy having the opportunity to participate in the nomination process.” The following students were nominated by Rep. Maloney and accepted an offer of appointment to one of the following academies: United States Military Academy at West Point Daniel Neuburger from Katonah, NY James Johnson from Monroe, NY Michael Merritt from Wappingers Falls, NY Andrew Neidnig from Port Jervis, NY United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Allison Gonzales from Monroe, NY Jordan Giordano from Newburgh, NY Donovan Murphy from Montgomery, NY (United States Naval Academy Prep School) United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Ulysses Bach from Tuxedo, NY Michael Andrews from Beacon, NY Leonard Bowen from Middletown, NY (United States Air Force Academy Prep School) United States Merchant Marine Academy at King’s Point Matthew Beisswenger from Fishkill, NY David Germain from Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY
06.12.2016	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement after reports that 50 individuals were killed and more than 50 were injured in a mass shooting at Pulse nightclub, an iconic gay club in Orlando, Florida. “I am devastated by the horrific shooting at Pulse. While the investigation into the motivation is just beginning, this attack at a gay nightclub during Pride Month appears to be an attack driven by hate – hate for our community, our values, and a senseless disregard for innocent life. “We should take our example from the brave parishioners in Charleston, who even in the immediate aftermath of that horrific shooting responded with love and dignity. They did not allow themselves to be defined by the hatred of their attacker and neither should we. We should remember that for decades we have fought to be able to love one another freely – in the end Pride month is about celebrating that love and freedom. “In the coming days, weeks and months we must have a serious and rigorous conversation as a country about the threats posed by gun violence, terrorism, and anti-LGBT hatred. These are important debates and it is precisely what our political system should respectfully encompass. But in the immediate aftermath of this tragedy, it is my hope that our first response will be to remember our common concern for the victims and those who love them.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.08.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after three individuals were killed and six injured in a deadly shooting in Tel Aviv, Israel. “I am horrified to learn of the deadly terrorist attack which took the lives of three Israelis, and injured six others in Tel Aviv. For far too long we’ve heard the accounts of senseless terrorist attacks or violence against innocent Israelis. The use of violence against innocent people who are going about their daily lives is abhorrent and barbaric - as one of our strongest allies, Israel has our full support as they bring those responsible to swift justice.”
06.08.2016	Washington – After Speaker Paul Ryan abandoned his promise for regular order in the House of Representatives, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement condemning House Republican efforts to once again block Rep. Maloney’s amendment to ban LGBT discrimination in federal contracting. Tonight, House Republicans blocked Rep. Maloney’s amendment in the Rules Committee, preventing it from coming to the floor for a vote as part of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act of 2017. “House Republican Leadership has rigged the process, rigged the vote, and rigged the bill in order to protect discrimination – now House Speaker Paul Ryan is changing the rules to stop LGBT Americans from getting basic workplace protections. They should be ashamed. It’s time to end the games and own up to where you stand – you either think it’s ok to discriminate against LGBT people or you don’t,” said Rep. Maloney, co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.08.2016	Newburgh, NY – After calling on the Department of Defense (DoD) to give priority to Stewart Air National Guard (ANG) Base to investigate the high levels of contaminants in Newburgh’s water supply, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that Newburgh ANG Base is now at the top of the list. Earlier this year, the Department of Defense announced plans to test for groundwater contamination from firefighting foams at hundreds of sites across the country. However, before Rep. Maloney called on the DoD, Stewart ANG Base was not included in the scheduled military base review. “Finally the Department of Defense is recognizing the dangerous groundwater contamination at Stewart Air National Guard Base – making it their number one priority to review nationwide. Clean and safe drinking water is a basic right for all our neighbors regardless of where you live, how much money you make, or the color of your skin,” said Rep. Maloney. “We can’t allow Newburgh to shoulder this burden alone, and placing Newburgh at the top of the DoD list is a critical step towards getting to the bottom of this issue and helping us protect families and small businesses in Newburgh.” Since abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) were found in Newburgh’s water, Rep. Maloney has worked with local, state and federal officials to call for an immediate investigation, hold those responsible accountable, and ensure residents in Newburgh have a clean water source now without placing the financial burden on the City. On May 19, Rep. Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. On May 13, Rep. Maloney called on the DoD to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan.
06.05.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement in response to news that a cadet at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point passed away during leadership training this week at Fort Hood, Texas: “I am shocked and saddened to learn that Mitchell Winey, a cadet at the Military Academy has died while participating in Cadet Troop Leader Training exercises at Fort Hood. His dedication distinguished him as a future leader who went above and beyond in service to his country. “My father was nearly killed during his service in the Navy, and I appreciate the nature of sacrifice in the name of honor. Mitchell's sacrifice will not be soon forgotten, and our nation is indebted to him for his selfless commitment to leadership in our nation’s armed forces. “I will continue to monitor this situation as additional details come to light, and will study the results of the investigation closely. I once again wish to offer my condolences to the Winey family, and thank them for their son's service and dedication to our country.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney represents the faculty and cadets of the United States Military Academy in Congress and was recently appointed to the West Point Board of Visitors by House Speaker Paul Ryan.
06.01.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement in honor of LGBTQ Pride Month, which is observed throughout the month of June: “This year’s pride marks an important milestone for the LGBTQ community - for the first time, all Americans can marry the person that they love regardless of who they are. “Although we’ve come a long way in the fight for equality, there is much more to be done. State legislatures throughout the country have made it clear that they intend to push a discriminatory agenda. Even in Congress, we’ve recently seen vote-rigging and bullying from the Republican Party to stop my anti-discrimination legislation from passing. “I call on my colleagues to join me in the fight against discrimination, and encourage all LGBTQ people to remember that we are with you. Especially during this pivotal moment in the LGBTQ rights movement, I wish all of my LGBTQ family a safe and happy pride!” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
06.01.2016	Washington – Following months of intensifying gun violence in Newburgh, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), a division of the Department of Justice (DOJ), to make an immediate strategic investment in Shot Spotter Technology (SST) to help the city fight gun violence. The city applied for the technology as part of the BJA’s Technology Innovation for Public Safety (TIPS) program. On May 16th, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter of support of the application to BJA Director Denise E. O’Donnell, citing that “firearm assaults and shootings continue to be alarmingly high and your assistance is critical for reducing its severity.” “Gunfire is an all too common occurrence in our city and its tearing our community and families apart – enough is enough,” said Maloney. “Our headquarters are in Newburgh for a reason – it’s a great place to work, live and raise a family – and working together with the City of Newburgh I’ve fought for additional police officers on the beat, but we must make sure that they have every available resource to stop this tide of violence and ensure our families and communities are safe.” Newburgh police often rely solely on community reporting to locate perpetrators of gun violence. These reports can be inconsistent or inaccurate. SST would empower police by providing the technology necessary to gather critical information to solve gun crimes, and to ensure those responsible are apprehended and successfully prosecuted. The investment would provide four square miles of the City of Newburgh with audio sensors, which can pinpoint the location of the gunfire, detect the frequency of gunfire, and identify the type of firearm used. Each type of bullet carries a specific audio signature. Although these signatures are undetectable to the human ear, SST can discern the type of ammunition being fired. The full text of Rep. Maloney’s letter to BJA Director Denise E. O’Donnell appears below: Dear Director O’Donnell: I write in support of the application submitted by the City of Newburgh Police Department (CNPD) to the Technology Innovation for Public Safety program of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. As you may be aware, the most recent data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation illustrates a significant rise in firearm assaults and shootings throughout the City of Newburgh. More specifically, these statistics continue to grow with 182 gun related calls-for-service in 2016. In response to the rise of shootings, the CNPD has gone to great lengths to employ evidence-based programs geared towards reducing gun violence. While these efforts have had a positive impact on the community, firearm assaults and shootings continue to be alarmingly high and your assistance is critical for reducing its severity. Award of this application will allow the CNPD to acquire ShotSpotter Technology (SST) analytical services to fortify its efforts to further combat gun violence. The SST uses strategically placed audio surveillance to provide constant acoustic monitoring throughout the City, which in turn instantly records and analyzes cases of possible gunfire. Currently, the Department is challenged by its reliance on the community to report instances of shots fired, which can be inconsistent and unfounded. Conversely, the deployment of nearly a hundred SST sensors will create a network that would instantly alert the CNPD and allow for immediate and appropriate action. The instantaneous alert to the Department will facilitate a quicker response to better aid victims, assess evidence and ultimately apprehend armed and dangerous criminals. As you can see, your assistance is overly critical both for the Police Department and residents of the City as a whole. For these reasons, I ask that you review this application at your earliest convenience. Therefore, I fully support this request and applaud its approach to policing in the 21st Century. In order to keep my office informed about this opportunity during the allocation process, or if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my Deputy District Director, Joseph Donat by phone at (845) 561-1295 or via e-mail at Joseph.Donat@mail.house.gov. Thank you in advance for your time and careful consideration of this request as both are greatly appreciated. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
05.26.2016	Washington – After Republican Leadership rigged a previous vote on a similar bill, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney’s (NY-18) amendment to prevent federal contractors from discriminating against LGBT employees passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 223-195. The Maloney amendment was introduced tonight to the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017, and would specifically prevent contractors paid by funds allocated for energy and water projects from discriminating against employees based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. After House Republican Leadership violated their own rules to strong-arm seven republicans into switching their votes to vote against Maloney’s amendment, the Maloney amendment passed tonight with 43 Republican votes. “After House Republican Leadership broke their own rules to rig a vote and stack the deck for discrimination - tonight proved that equality will always win,” said Maloney, co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “Folks back home want to know that their government is on the level - and when last week's vote went down under such extraordinary circumstances, my Republican colleagues went back home to their districts and heard them echo cries of, “Shame!” I offered my amendment today – through an open process – to give my colleagues a second chance to do the right thing and stand against discrimination. Tonight Congress took that chance and we claimed a victory for equality.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
05.24.2016	Washington, D.C.—Air traffic controller (ATC) staffing at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has been a concern for many years, but it has now reached a crisis level. The National Airspace System (NAS) has reached a 27-year low for staffing of Certified Professional Controllers (CPC). To address these problems, Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced the bipartisan H.R. 5292 the Air Traffic Controller Act of 2016. H.R. 5292 would improve the hiring and staffing of air traffic controllers at the FAA. It would facilitate the hiring of more controllers as opposed to slowing it down, which is critical in addressing the ATC staffing crisis. It ensures that Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI) graduates and veterans are considered in a separate pool from the general public and requires the FAA to select them from vacancies without subjecting them to FAA’s biographical assessment. It would also recommend the FAA to recruit experienced controllers, including military and Depart of Defense civilian controllers, Federal Contract Tower controllers, and those with prior FAA experience. Furthermore, this bill would raise the maximum entry age for experienced controllers, with a minimum of 52 weeks of experience, from age 31 to 35. Lastly, this bill would allow the FAA to directly notice ATC vacancies to Historically Black Colleges, Hispanic-serving institutions, and other minority-serving institutions to promote hiring at these schools. “This bill is a much needed improvement to not only revitalize our ATC system, but to return confidence to Americans who have felt neglected by the current FAA hiring practices. By including language to guarantee that CTI graduates and veterans are considered for these jobs, we are ensuring that the most qualified people will fill these vacancies. I am very pleased that this bill will also encourage the hiring of students graduating from minority-serving institutions, which includes many South Florida institutions which I am honored to represent in Congress. I thank my fellow co-sponsor, Rep. Maloney, for his support in assuring that there is a steady stream of well-trained Controllers dedicated to maintaining the utmost safety of the United States air traffic system,” said Curbelo.
05.23.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the grand prize winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, winners for each medium, and a Facebook Fan Favorite at a reception for students and their families on Friday evening. In March, Rep. Maloney invited high school students in the 18th Congressional District to submit an entry to the annual art contest, and a panel of local artists judged the entries. This year, more than 20 students participated in the art competition, and their work is currently on display at his Newburgh Office. You can view the entries on Facebook here. “Congratulations to Polina Chizhov for winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Maloney. “Every year, I am thrilled to see the artistic talent of our young people right here in the Hudson Valley, and I am proud that I will be able to share some of our region’s best artwork with my colleagues in Washington.” Grand Prize Winner “Puppy” by Polina Chizhov, Monroe, NY Facebook Fan Favorite “Fallen Souls” by Brandin Colon Honorable Mention “Berry Plump” by Julia Rattenni (Winner: Painting) “Grief” by Alex Scheuerman (Winner: Mixed Media) “Dancing Flames” by Anthony Carrube (Winner: Print) “Leaves” by Brittney Ann Zovko (Winner: Drawing) “Seasons” by Edwin Lopez (Winner: Photograph) Since 1982, hundreds of thousands of students from across the country have participated in the competition, sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which encourages Members of Congress to recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. The grand prize winning artwork will be displayed in the Capitol for one year and the winning student, plus one guest, will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception in June.
05.23.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) presented the Army Commendation Medal, with “V” device, to Sergeant Richard Gerbeth, an Iraq War veteran, and member of Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board. The Army Commendation medal is awarded to service members who distinguish themselves through heroism, meritorious achievement or meritorious service. The “V” or valor device, is awarded to service members who participate in acts of heroism involving conflict with an armed enemy. “Sergeant Gerbeth is a true American hero – he literally risked his life to save the life of his fellow soldier,” said Maloney. “As the son of a veteran who was nearly killed while serving our country, it is my honor to present him with the medal that only begins to recognize his bravery and service to our country and to his fellow service members.” “I have had the honor and privilege of calling Richard my friend for over a decade. As a fellow combat wounded veteran, I am proud of him not only for his service to God & Country but also to his continued service through his volunteerism and caring in his community,” said William "Willy" Nazario, National Sr. Vice Commander, Military Order of the Purple Heart. “The Military Order of the Purple Heart is proud of his commitment to our mission statement and good works. Congratulations Patriot Gerbeth.” “Richard’s Purple Heart is a visual statement of his sacrifice while the V for valor commemorates his actions taken that day. I am proud to call him my friend,” said Andrew Komonchak, Executive Director, National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. “His devotion to military and veterans causes is second to none and is very evident in everything he undertakes,” said Richard Drago, Senior Vice Commander, Military Order of the Purple Heart Chapter 1782. After establishing a strong track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, active-duty military, and their families, Rep. Maloney announced last week that he was appointed by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve on the United States Military Academy Board of Visitors (BOV). Since joining Congress, he has secured nearly 150 medals and commendations, and returned more than $3 million in guaranteed benefits for more than 800 Hudson Valley service members and veterans, who were owed education, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents’ compensation. Medal Citation: Army Commendation Medal The Secretary of the Army of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Army Commendation Medal with Combat "V" device to Sergeant Richard R. Gerbeth, Jr., United States Army, for heroism during ground combat operations against enemy forces in Iraq. While under enemy fire, Sergeant Gerbeth maneuvered across the road next to a canal to rescue the patrol leader who was exposed to enemy fire, in the canal where the water was approximately 7 feet deep. Although exposed to enemy fire, Sergeant Gerbeth remained with the patrol leader and maintained communications throughout the ordeal. Upon rejoining the ambush team, Sergeant Gerbeth called in successive illumination missions enabling the platoon to sweep the vineyards and mudflats north of the ambush site. Acting as the Ambush Team Radio Operator, he engaged the enemy and coordinated the Quick Reaction Force response. Acting on his own initiative he vectored in the Quick Reaction Force gun trucks to support the follow on sweep by the platoon. Sergeant Gerbeth's actions reflect great credit upon himself and are in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Army. Biography of Sergeant Richard R. Gerbeth, Jr. Patriot Richard Gerbeth Jr. was appointed National Assistant Sergeant-at-Arms in 2014; he joined MOPH in 2012 and is a Life Member and Commander of Chapter 1782 New York. Past positions include Chapter Welfare Officer and Sergeant-at -Arms and Department Sergeant-at-Arms and Junior Vice Commander. Patriot Gerbeth enlisted in the U.S. Navy in January 1991 at age 18 and served during the Persian Gulf War, but was honorably discharged after one year for medical reasons. After using the G.I. Bill to attend Westchester Community College, he was hired by United Parcel Service, initially part-time but eventually full time, driving a package delivery truck. In 1999, he joined the New York Army Reserve/National Guard and volunteered for the Infantry. He was activated for state missions throughout NY during and post September 11, 2001. In October 2003, his National Guard unit, Alpha Company Task Force, 2nd Battalion-108th Infantry Regiment was mobilized and attached to the 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Then Sergeant Gerbeth served as an E-5/Fire Team Leader within the Sunni Triangle from February 2004 through December 2004 and was wounded In November 2004. His individual decorations include the Purple Heart Medal, Army Commendation Medal with "V" device for Valor, Army Achievement Medal and the Combat Infantrymen’s Badge. After his release from active duty in April 2005, he returned to drill status for one year until he was medically retired from the U.S. Army in April 2006. He returned to his civilian position as a teamster, but was unable to perform his duties due to Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) incurred in the line of duty. He retired early after an 18 year career with UPS. Although Patriot Gerbeth was wounded in 2004, he did not receive his Purple Heart or any correspondence regarding this award until December 2011. No original paperwork was submitted due to difficulties in diagnosing and treating Concussion/ TBI until April 2011. At this point in time, the United States Military changed its diagnosis methods and awarded Gerbeth the Purple Heart Medal. Patriot Gerbeth took great pride and privilege in having his Medal pinned by his former commanding officer whom he served under in combat; the ceremony took place on the 80th anniversary of “Temple Hill Day” May 28, 2012 at General George Washington’s cantonment site. Gerbeth has a life-long love of motorcycles, enjoys riding his Harley Davidson and likes being in the outdoors, particularly camping and hiking. On a regular basis, he volunteers at his local VA hospital, Castle Point Campus, Hudson Valley, NY. His newest contribution to his community is serving as Assistant Scout Master for Boy Scout Troop 3026 in Wappinger’s Falls, NY. Patriot Gerbeth is married to Jessica and they have four children, two girls and two boys.
05.20.2016	Wappingers Falls, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a $200,000 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) investment aimed at revitalizing 15 contaminated sites, known as “brownfields,” throughout the Village of Wappingers Falls. The funds will be used to support community outreach and assist with cleanup planning. Such grants are typically the first award in a series of investments aimed at completely rehabilitating contaminated sites. “Working together we can make sure all our Hudson Valley communities are free from industrial contamination,” said Maloney. “Strategic federal investments can help clean up our local communities without costing hardworking taxpayers, while protecting Hudson Valley ecosystems and creating jobs.” “We are pleased that the EPA has recognized the importance of cleaning up former vacant industrial sites that have become blighted and more critically, has provided funding to begin the process,” said Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro “The County has been a partner with the Village for years working to revitalize the Industrial Park and we look forward to the continued progress on making the property a vibrant and productive asset for the Village and the County. We are grateful to Congressman Maloney for his efforts in securing this important funding.” “This federal aid from the EPA will enable Wappingers Falls to assess longstanding environmental concerns associated with previous industrial uses,” said Wappingers Falls Mayor Matt Alexander. “It is our hope that this funding will catalyze environmental remediation and sustainable development – which are essential to the revitalization process of this historic Village. We especially want to thank Congressman Maloney and his office for their attentive consideration in helping us move this effort forward.” The award is part of the EPA’s brownfield program, which provides funding for brownfield assessment, cleanup, revolving loans and environmental job training. The investment in Village of Wappingers Falls will initiate the rehabilitation process at sites throughout the country. Potential sites in Wappingers Falls include former metal plating facilities, dry cleaners, ink and dye manufacturing facilities, industrial storage, gasification facilities, and mechanical manufacturing operations. The investment is part of a larger EPA effort, investing over $55 million to redevelop contaminated properties, grow local economies and create jobs while protecting public health. The Village would be required to take further steps to secure additional investments.
05.19.2016	Newburgh, NY – In response to continued uncertainty regarding the EPA’s standards of safe drinking water in the City of Newburgh, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to immediately set a clear national standard for acceptable levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) in drinking water. Rep. Maloney also renewed calls for the EPA to provide immediate material assistance to the City of Newburgh to remediate the contamination. Last week, Rep. Maloney called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to investigate the likely source of the contamination, Stewart Air National Guard Base. “We were promised meaningful standards on the levels of PFOS and PFOA in our drinking water by the spring, it’s almost summer and we have still not seen them,” said Maloney. “We are running out of time – my neighbors in Newburgh deserve answers now, they deserve to know what levels of PFOS and PFOA are safe. All my neighbors deserve to know their drinking water is safe, and by delaying, the EPA is neglecting one of its most basic duties – to protect families from environmental contaminants – and that’s unacceptable.” In early May, Newburgh City Manager Michael Ciaravino declared a state of emergency following tests of Newburgh’s water, which showed abnormal, and potentially dangerous levels of the pollutant PFOS, a chemical used in firefighting foams, sealants, and cleaning products. In 2009, the EPA released a provisional advisory on the maximum safe levels of PFOS and PFOA in drinking water. The advisory has not been updated since its release. Following initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the EPA calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan. The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Administrator McCarthy: I write to ask for the immediate release of updated health advisories for perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) in drinking water that include values for protection from long-term exposures. As you know, a range of communities across the country, including Newburgh, New York, are struggling with dangerously high levels of PFOA and PFOS in their water. That is simply unacceptable. The American people have an absolute right to safe, reliable drinking water. Complicating the problem is the lack of an actionable, national standard from the EPA for PFOA and PFOS. I understand that the EPA has been working to release updated health advisories to replace the existing provisional advisory levels. I strongly urge you to release those updated advisories immediately. Doing so is essential to ensuring that impacted communities are able to take the necessary steps to fully address their water problems. While I strongly urge an immediate release, should the EPA determine that doing so is not possible, I ask that it instead immediately release updated provisional guidelines that will give impacted communities greater clarity while EPA moves to finalize the new values, such as the site-specific guidance of 100 parts per trillion (ppt) for PFOA in water used for drinking or cooking that EPA Region 2 issued for the Town of Hoosick and Village of Hoosick Falls in New York on January 28, 2016. In a joint letter dated March 10, 2016, the Governors of New York, New Hampshire, and Vermont also referenced the Hoosick Falls guidance level in their request for an updated health advisory. The urgency cannot be overstated. While Newburgh has switched to an alternate source of drinking water, that source will only last for a matter of weeks. When that happens, thousands of residents of the city of Newburgh, through no fault of their own, will be without a reliable source of clean water. Water treatment efforts will cost millions of dollars - a burden that the financially distressed city of Newburgh cannot, should not and must not bear on its own. The people of Newburgh – over one third of whom live in poverty - deserve swift and decisive action. In addition to immediately releasing updated PFOA and PFOS advisory levels, I ask that the EPA do everything in its power to assist the city of Newburgh and its residents at this time. Thank you for your attention to this letter. Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
05.19.2016	Washington – Following House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA FY17) – which included a provision to overturn basic workplace protections for LGBT Americans – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) introduced an amendment to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (MilCon-VA) to prevent taxpayer dollars from going to Military and Veterans Affairs contractors that discriminate against employees on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. “In the past day, House Republicans have gone out of their way to rig votes and block bills that prevent discrimination against LGBT people. When they break their our own rules to make sure taxpayer dollars can go to folks who discriminate, they showed who they truly are – bigots and cowards. Last night, Rep. Maloney introduced a measure on the House Floor today to remove language in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017 (NDAA) that would overturn basic workplace protections for LGBT Americans. This measure, or Motion to Recommit, comes after Republicans inserted a last minute amendment into the NDAA from Rep. Steve Russell (OK) which would overturn President Obama’s executive order protecting LGBT federal contractors from discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. “Last night, the House passed a bill that explicitly allows blatant discrimination against LGBT people – it’s anti-gay, and anti-American, plain and simple,” said Rep. Maloney (D-NY), co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “The amendment I offered today seeks to right that wrong and ensure that no taxpayer dollars go to federal contractors that discriminate against people based solely on who they are or who they love. As I said last night, this is about whether we stand for equal rights or we rationalize discrimination.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
05.18.2016	Washington – Following the introduction of over two dozen bills to curb LGBT rights at the state and federal level, and in observation of International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHOT), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released a video campaign to show support for the LGBT community. Joined by 25 members of the LGBT Congressional Equality Caucus, Rep. Maloney released a video titled “We’re With You,” which is aimed at showing solidarity and support for LGBT equality at a time when many federal, state and local leaders are advancing blatantly discriminatory policy proposals. These proposals have far-reaching consequences beyond simply legalizing discrimination, including reinforcing feelings of isolation and desperation among already targeted populations. One suicide helpline for trans people has reported that call volume has doubled since the passage of HB 2 in North Carolina. The video aims to combat this trend and echoes this year’s IDAHOT theme of mental health and wellness. “Discrimination has no place in the law, and these attempts to legalize hate are shameful. These laws tell LGBT people that who they are or who they love makes them less valuable as human beings – and that’s just wrong,” said Maloney, Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “I started this campaign because, from North Carolina to Missouri, I want LGBT Americans to know that they are not alone. So I am asking my colleagues in Congress and folks across the country to join me and tell our LGBT brothers and sisters, ‘we’ve got your back, and we’re going to keep fighting for you until we win.’ ” Twenty four Members of Congress joined Rep. Maloney in the video, including Lois Capps (D-CA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ted Deutsch (D-FL), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Joe Kennedy III (D-MA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-AZ), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL). Established in 2004, IDAHOT is an internationally-recognized holiday which seeks to promote awareness of the plight of LGBT people throughout the world. Last month, Rep. Maloney led a bipartisan letter to the Saudi Ambassador to the United States calling for clarification of media reports alleging the Kingdom intended to use torture and capital punishment against LGBT people. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
05.18.2016	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), co-chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, introduced a measure on the House Floor today to remove language in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017 (NDAA) that would overturn basic workplace protections for LGBT Americans. This measure, or Motion to Recommit, comes after Republicans inserted a last minute amendment into the NDAA from Rep. Steve Russell (OK) which would overturn President Obama’s executive order protecting LGBT federal contractors from discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Republicans on the House Rules Committee then arbitrarily blocked a bipartisan amendment from the floor that would have struck the amendment. Rep. Maloney’s remarks and a link to the video. Here is a copy of the transcript: “I’ve never voted against a defense bill and I never thought I would. My dad was a veteran, who was nearly killed serving his country. He taught me to respect those who serve and to speak plainly about right and wrong. So, let me speak plainly now - this bill writes anti-gay bias into federal law. It strips LGBT Americans of basic workplace protections by reversing the President’s anti-discrimination orders, saying it is once again legal for your LGBT neighbors and family members to be fired because of who they are. This is wrong. “This is not about supporting our troops, it’s not about fighting ISIS, it’s not about religious protection – we can do all that and we should – this is about bigotry, plain and simple. But we can fix it, by embracing the bi-partisan effort, denied by the Rules Committee, to remove this hateful language and keep everything else. Mr. Speaker, this is not some procedural vote to be waved away. This is about whether we will reaffirm equal right or rationalize discrimination. “When my husband and I got married after waiting 22 years, so many of you expressed your support. Will you now look me in the eye and say it would be okay for me to lose my job over it? Just today, a member of this House, refusing to help strike this anti-gay language, said to me, “But, you know where I am on your issues.” I said, “No. This is where you are on my issues. Your vote is where you are on my issues. And it is where your children and where history will remember you are standing on our issues.” “You have the opportunity here and now to strike this anti-gay language and in doing strike a blow for equality. Mr. Speaker, we’re told we need to ‘Make America Great Again”. But you can’t make America great, by making America hate. I urge my colleagues – strike the hate. Take a stand against discrimination. Vote for this motion to recommit.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
05.16.2016	Washington – After establishing a strong track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, active-duty military, and their families, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced he has been appointed by House Speaker Paul Ryan to serve on the United States Military Academy Board of Visitors (BOV). The BOV of West Point is similar to the Boards of Trustees or Regents at other institutions, and is charged with providing independent advice and recommendations regarding the Academy to the President of the United States. The BOV makes an annual visit to West Point to evaluate its operations and policy and then submits an official report to the President including details of their evaluation, and additional recommendations. “As the son of a Navy veteran, being asked to serve on the Board of Visitors is an honor and responsibility I take very seriously,” said Rep. Maloney. “From day one, I have been focused on getting results for our veterans, our active-duty service members, and military families. I look forward to fighting for our men and women in uniform in this role while helping to prepare the next generation of military leaders to face an increasingly complex network of global threats.” Under the provisions of 10 US Code 4355 and the Federal Advisory Committee Act of 1972, the Board is directed to inquire into the morale, discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating to the academy that the board decides to consider. The Speaker of the House has the authority to appoint nine members of Congress to serve annual terms on the Board. The President appoints five members to serve three year terms each. The 2015 Board of Visitors included: Senator Richard M. Burr (NC) (Senate Armed Services Committee); Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) (Senate Armed Services Committee); Senator Joni Ernst (IA) (Senate Armed Services Committee); Senator Chris Murphy (CT) (Senate Appropriations Committee); Congressman Steve Womack (AR) (House Armed Services Committee), Vice Chair; Congressman Mike Conaway (TX) (House Armed Services Committee); Congressman Steve Israel (NY) (House Appropriations Committee); Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA) (House Armed Services Committee); and Congressman Mike Pompeo (KS). Presidential Appointees include: Ms. Brenda Sue Fulton, Chair; Honorable Bob Archuleta; Ms. Elizabeth McNally; Honorable Gerald S. McGowan, and Mr. Ethan Epstein. Rep. Maloney has established a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans, despite Washington gridlock. In 2013, Rep. Maloney’s Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act was signed into law, which helped address the Veterans Administration (VA)’s backlog of disability claims. Also in 2013, Maloney secured an over $100 million federal investment to construct a new training center for the Army Reserve in Bullville, NY as well as investing in construction and renovations of new cadet barracks at West Point. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act was signed into law, to reform the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, which is the employment program to assist, train and find jobs for veterans with service-connected disabilities. In addition, last month Rep. Maloney introduced bipartisan legislation to cut through red tape and automatically forgive students loans for disabled veterans. The bipartisan Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act would increase interagency communication and cooperation in order to reduce the burden on our veterans to ensure their federal student loans are discharged, a benefit already entitled to veterans with a total and permanent disability (TPD) or a 100 percent service-connected disability. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured over $3 million in guaranteed benefits for more than 800 Hudson Valley veterans and their family members who were owed education, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents’ compensation. Rep. Maloney has also hosted four veterans resources and jobs fairs with dozens of local veterans organizations, and has secured over 146 service medals, including 3 Bronze Star Medals and 3 Purple Hearts.
05.13.2016	Washington – Following the discovery of high levels of contaminants in Newburgh’s water supply, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney called on the Department of Defense (DoD) to immediately conduct an investigation into the likely source of the pollution – Stewart Air National Guard Base. In addition to calling for a review of the source of the contaminant, Rep. Maloney asked the DoD to ensure total remediation for the City of Newburgh. “Water is a basic right for all Americans regardless of where they live, how much money they have in their bank account, or the color of their skin,” said Maloney. “We can’t allow Newburgh to shoulder this burden alone, and our leaders in the DoD – including Secretary of Defense Carter – must take the necessary steps to get to the bottom of this issue and help us protect families and small businesses in Newburgh.” Last week, Newburgh City Manager Michael Ciaravino declared a state of emergency following tests of Newburgh’s water, which showed abnormal, and potentially dangerous levels of the pollutant perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), a chemical used in firefighting foams, sealants, and cleaning products. Subsequent tests showed exponentially higher levels of the pollutant in ponds near Stewart Air National Guard Base, which eventually drain into Washington Lake, the primary source of Newburgh’s water. DoD has used firefighting foams, which contain PFOS, for over 40 years. Earlier this year, the Department of Defense announced plans to test for groundwater contamination from firefighting foams at hundreds of sites across the country. After initial reports of contamination in the City of Newburgh water, Rep. Maloney and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling for immediate assistance to determine the source of the contamination, test contaminant levels, and formulate a remediation plan. The full letter to the DoD is as follows: Dear Secretary Carter, Recent testing of Washington Lake, the drinking water supply for the City of Newburgh, New York, found abnormally and unacceptably high levels of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooc­tane sulfonate (PFOS) contamination. Follow-up tests showed extremely high levels of those contaminants in outfalls from nearby Stewart Air National Guard Base that discharge runoff directly into Washington Lake tributaries. As you know, PFOA and PFOS are frequently found in aqueous film forming foam (AFFF), which has been used by the Department of Defense to extinguish petroleum fires for over 40 years. Together, these facts strongly suggest Newburgh’s water supply contamination is coming from Stewart Airport and Stewart Air National Guard Base. PFOS and PFOA contamination is not a problem unique to Newburgh. The United States military is currently conducting an extensive review of military bases to test for PFOA and PFOS contamination stemming from the use of AFFF. However, the danger this contamination poses to the drinking water of such a vulnerable and underserved community elevates the urgency for action to crisis levels. At this time, Stewart Air National Guard Base is not currently included in the military base review. I ask that you not only add Stewart Air National Guard Base to the scheduled reviews, I urge you to place Stewart at the top of the list. We must move quickly to identify the source of this pollution and get in action to stop the spread of contamination. Furthermore – I ask that you immediately engage with the community to take all steps necessary to invest in complete and total remediation. I want to stress the urgency of action. We are running out of time. Newburgh has switched to an alternative source of drinking water, but that source will run dry in a matter of weeks. After that, the city will be forced to pursue options that will cost millions of dollars. Newburgh is a financially distressed city of nearly 30,000 people. Over one third of the population lives in poverty. Median household income lags far behind state and national averages. They cannot be asked to shoulder this burden. In the United States, access to clean water is a right, not a privilege. Total systemic failures have denied my neighbors in Newburgh access to water. They deserve better. We must act, and we must act now. Thank you for your service and I look forward to working with you on this. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress ###
05.11.2016	Washington – The House of Representatives today unanimously passed Representative Sean Patrick Maloney’s (NY-18) legislation to combat opioid abuse by improving education for prescribing physicians and incentivizing the pharmaceutical industry to include anti-abuse properties in new medications. The Opioid Review Modernization Act would require drug companies to obtain additional levels of expert approval when seeking Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for medications that do not use abuse-deterrent technologies, like extended-release capsules. In addition, it would create a strategy for educating well-meaning physicians about the potential harms in prescribing opioids. This legislation is set to be included in a package of legislation, including the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), heading to a conference committee with the Senate. “No single strategy can solve this crisis - we need a comprehensive approach that builds on proven methods and innovative solutions to end the flood of opioids in our communities, get drugs off our streets, and expand prevention and treatment efforts,” said Rep. Maloney. “As part of an all-around package of legislation to combat the opioid epidemic, my bill is a tool in our tool belt - providing incentives for pharmaceutical companies to use anti-abuse technologies and create a plan to educate our well-meaning doctors about the potential dangers of prescription opioids.” The Opioid Review Modernization Act would require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to establish an advisory committee to evaluate new drugs which do not contain abuse-deterrent properties. The committee would also solicit outside input and provide a period for public comments. If pharmaceutical producers choose to include abuse-deterrent components in new medicines, they would have the option to bypass the committee. This process would incentivize the use of abuse-deterrent technology in new medication by offering an expedited path to approval. The bill would also require the FDA to develop a suggested curriculum for doctors who prescribe opioids as part of the agency’s Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS). Currently, no comprehensive strategy exists to ensure all doctors are aware of the potential for abuse inherent in opioid-based medication. Earlier this year, Rep. Maloney introduced another bill to combat the opioid epidemic; the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would provide law enforcement with the option to divert low-level drug offenders directly to treatment instead of booking them and sending them through the criminal justice system. In early April, law enforcement personnel from throughout the Hudson Valley joined Rep. Maloney to call for passage of the bill. Additionally, the Orange County Legislature passed a resolution supporting the bill and calling on Congress to take action. Earlier this year, Rep. Maloney held a telephone town hall on the heroin and opioid epidemic with over 21,000 Hudson Valley residents.
05.07.2016	Newburgh, NY— After attending the Orange County Veterans Picnic, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) presented Corporal John Ciardullo with four service medals he earned while serving our country during the Korean War in the United States Army. Rep. Maloney presented the National Defense Service Medal, Korean Service Medal with Bronze Service Stars, and United Nations Service Medal to Corporal Ciardullo. Corporal Ciardullo was also awarded the Combat Infrantry Badge for personally fighting in active combat during the Korean War. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured over $3 million in guaranteed benefits for more than 800 Hudson Valley veterans and their family members who were owed education, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents’ compensation. Rep. Maloney has also hosted four veterans resources and jobs fairs with dozens of local veterans organizations, and has secured over 146 service medals, including 3 Bronze Star Medals and 3 Purple Hearts. "As the son of a Navy veteran, I believe we owe a debt of gratitude to the generations of veterans like my father who bravely served our country. Corporal John Ciardullo, and all of our Korean War Veterans made great sacrifices in defense of democracy at home and abroad," said Rep. Maloney. "It was my honor to secure these medals to ensure his service in "the forgotten war" is never forgotten." "I join the greater Walden community in honoring a true hero in Corporal John Ciardullo. He served our country in combat and then spent decades serving his community and supporting his family when he returned home. Playing a role in presenting this pillar of our community, with his medals for service during the Korean War, is an honor I will always cherish. Due to the integrity and character of Corporal John Ciardullo, the Ciardullo family is a fine example of what a hard working American household ought to be,” said New York State Senator William J. Larkin, Jr. “Mr. Ciardullo answered the call to serve his country and bravely fought in the Korean War as a combat infantryman in the U.S. Army. He certainly deserves to be honored and I’m proud to be a part of today’s wonderful ceremony. I would like to thank Mr. Ciardullo for everything that he has contributed to this country and our community,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. “If men were measured by their love of family, country, and community, John Ciardullo would be 10 feet tall,” said Mayor Susan M. Rumbold, Village of Walden. Biography of Corporal John Ciardullo John Ciardullo was born in Brooklyn, NY. February 21, 1933, he is the second oldest of four brothers. John became a soldier in the United States Army on July 8, 1952 and served his country in the Korean War until April 30, 1954. While serving in Korea as a Combat Infantryman, John fought in the Third Korean Winter and the Korea Summer 1953 Battles also known as Pork Chop Hill. On May 4, 1957 he married Clare Farace, they just celebrated their 59th anniversary. They raised 5 children together, Michael, Catherine, Douglas, Richard and John Peter. They are the proud grandparents of 15 children and great grandparents of 6 children. In his younger days, John enjoyed painting pictures, dancing, bowling and softball. John enjoyed being involved in youth programs and was always ready to volunteer his time. He served as President of the Walden Little League, Head of the Village of Walden Basketball Program, Director of the Knights of Columbus, President of the Walden Rotary and Umpire and Chief of the Walden Little League. One favorite, of his many highlights, was being invited to Williamsport PA, where he was the home plate umpire in the Little League World Series game in 1982, played between Canada and Taiwan - the first little league game televised by ESPN. John was honored with a plaque from the Board of Trustees of the Village of Walden for over 20 years of volunteer service to youth programs. John also served as a volunteer at Colonel Bradley Field batting cages, which are dedicated in his honor by the Walden Little League.
05.06.2016	Poughkeepsie, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he secured an investment of $165,024 as part of the competitive Assistance to Firefighters grant program, which is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This investment will be used to purchase new personnel protective equipment, including new coats, pants, helmets, boots and gloves. The Poughkeepsie Fire Department's current equipment is near, or over, recommended service times and in need of replacement. “Our local firefighters run into burning buildings and put their lives on the line to save others and they deserve our gratitude and our support,” said Rep. Maloney. “This federal investment is critical to ensure our heroes no longer have outdated equipment - providing the new protective gear they need to keep themselves, our community and families safe from dangerous fires." "The City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department is grateful for this AFG grant providing essential firefighting equipment to maintain the highest level of safety to our firefighters. Without the help of financial assistance like this we would not be able to provide this much needed equipment for our firefighters," said Poughkeepsie Fire Chief Mark Johnson. Earlier this year, Rep. Maloney secured federal funding to hire seven firefighters for two years. Last year, Rep. Maloney secured a similar award of $625,000 for the Poughkeepsie Police Department, which will be used to hire at least 5 additional officers. Working together with local, state and federal officials, Rep. Maloney has secured over $1.5 million for the City of Poughkeepsie to hire at least 12 individuals who will keep our communities safe by serving as firefighters, police, and first responders. Assistance to Firefighters Grants are administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the United States Fire Administration, both of which are part of the Department of Homeland Security. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.fema.gov/.
05.04.2016	Newburgh Officials Have Found Elevated Levels Of Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) – A Synthetic Chemical & Pollutant, Related to PFOA – In Silver Stream and Washington Lake; EPA Has Water Contamination Experts and Significant Experience Dealing With Such Issues Schumer, Gillibrand, Maloney Also Call on EPA to Complete its PFOA Review and Publish the New Standards So Communities Like Newburgh Can Make The Best Decisions To Protect Drinking Water Sources and the Public Health; EPA Promised to Publish New PFOA Standards “By Spring” – and It’s Now May Schumer, Gillibrand, Maloney To EPA: Provide Assistance to Newburgh To Prevent More Water Contamination, And Publish the New PFOA Standards ASAP U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, today called on the U.S. Department of Environmental Protection (EPA) to immediately provide testing and planning assistance to the City of Newburgh, where two bodies of water were found to contain a highly-toxic chemical, perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS). Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney also called on the EPA to finally publish their promised new standards for the related chemical, PFOA (Perfluorooctanoic acid), which they previously promised to publish “by spring.” According to several news reports, the city detected perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) in both Silver Stream and Washington Lake. PFOS and PFOA are both perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) that have been produced for the manufacturing of a wide variety of commercial and consumer products. Both chemicals are extremely persistent in the environment and resistant to natural environmental degradation. The toxicity and bioaccumulation potential of PFCs can pose a serious risk to human health, which is why this is EPA must act quickly to determine the source of contamination. Therefore, Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney explained that these bodies of water – as well as their sources – should be immediately and comprehensively tested by the EPA to see where the problem exists and how it can be mitigated. In addition, The federal representatives are urging the EPA to use its world-class technical expertise to work hand-in-hand with the city and the community of Newburgh and the state of New York in any way it can, including testing the water as a starting point, and then providing a path to remediation. “We need to make sure residents in the City of Newburgh have water that is safe for their families and children to drink, and the EPA has the expertise and resources when it comes to testing for PFOS pollution and devising clean-up plans. That is why I am calling on the federal EPA to step up to the plate and get all hands on deck to help the community and state regulators to test this water, identify the source and extent of the contamination, and move forward with ways to remediate any contamination. We need the EPA send their resources and contamination experts here as soon as possible to work with the city and state to develop a plan and prevent any future contamination,” said Senator Schumer. “Families in the City of Newburgh have the right to know that their drinking water is free of toxic chemicals like PFOS,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “The EPA must work with city and state officials to test the local water and create a clean-up plan as soon as possible to protect public health. I'm pushing for the EPA to take steps to immediately address this situation and prevent further contamination.” “Our families deserve to know their drinking water is safe – my office is in Newburgh and I know how scary it is to find out your water may contain dangerous chemicals. We need to address the water contamination in Newburgh immediately, which is why I’m calling on the EPA to work with state and local officials to find out the source of this contamination, devise a remediation plan and make sure our drinking water is safe and clean,” said Rep. Maloney. The lawmakers explained that, while Newburgh’s levels are below the EPA’s current standards, the city is doing this in an abundance of caution for its residents and businesses. Moreover, it is possible that when EPA publishes its new, tougher PFOA standard, which was promised “by spring,” the City may well fall below that new threshold, so Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney called on EPA to immediately publish that eagerly-awaited new standard. “The EPA must publish its new PFOA standard – yesterday,” said Schumer continued. “They promised to do it by spring, and here we are in May. Newburgh leaders and residents have expressed sincere concern over the potential emergence of the chemical in drinking water sources and clear guidance from the federal government is needed to map out the best plan of action for the local community that best protects public health and the drinking water.” Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney explained that perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is a man-made fluorosurfactant and global pollutant. Fluorosurfactants are synthetic chemical compounds that are often used in the manufacturing of products like fabric protectors and stain repellents because they are seen as effective at lowering the surface tension of water. While this chemical can be found in nature, high levels can be dangerous to humans. According to the EPA’s March 2014 “Emerging Contaminants – Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) and Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA)” report, PFOS chemicals are no longer allowed to be manufactured in the U.S. However, the EPA does allow for the continuation of a few, limited, highly technical applications of PFOS-related substances where no known alternatives are available. As a result, Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney said it is critical the City of Newburgh find out the source of this contamination. According to the EPA’s 2014 report, chronic exposure to PFOS and PFOA has led to the development of tumors in the liver of rats. However, more research is needed to determine if there are similar cancer risks for humans. The lawmakers said that the EPA’s technical expertise and experience in dealing with water contamination could better provide needed support to the City of Newburgh and could better help the community understand the full scope of water contamination. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney said once this contamination is better understood, through testing, the subsequent remediation can commence as quickly as possible. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney said this peace of mind is desperately needed in the community, as protecting the health of residents, businesses and agriculture within the city is of the utmost importance. A copy of Schumer, Gillibrand, and Maloney’s letter to the EPA appears below: Dear Administrator Gina McCarthy: Following the recent discovery by the City of Newburgh, New York of Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) contamination in two local bodies of water, I write to urge the U.S. Environmental Protect Agency (EPA) to use its technical expertise to quickly assist the community in testing their water for PFOS contamination. I urge the EPA to assist Newburgh in determining the source of this PFOS contamination, and to help them devise a remidiation plan. In addition, it is critical that EPA releases an updated safety standard for PFOA and PFOS immediately, as the EPA has promised it would do so by Spring of 2016. In light of the recent news that the city has declared a water emergency due to the detection of elevated levels of PFOS in both Silver Stream and Washington Lake, I am requesting that EPA use their experience and resources to expeditiously help the community test all relevant water within the community and water system to help identify the extent of the contamination and determine its source. Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is a man-made chemical that was commonly used in a wide variety of commercial and consumer products. PFOS is extremely persistent in the environment and resistant to natural forms of environmental degradation. The toxicity and bioaccumulation potential of PFOA can pose a serious risk to human health, which makes it presence in two Newburgh water bodies most concerning. This high level of contamination must be remediated as soon as possible in order to ensure the health and safety of the community. With the EPA’s technical expertise and experience in dealing with drinking water contamination, I request that you immediately provide technical support to help the community investigate the full scope of the problem and assist with subsequent remediation as quickly as possible. This development has cast considerable concern and created great uncertainty for the Newburgh community, with the potential impacts ranging from human health to the local economy. It is imperative the this uncertainty be quickly addressed by quickly identifying the scope of the problem and speedily implementing an effective remediation plan. Again, I thank you for your work in protecting our nation’s health and the quality of our drinking water. Thank you for your attention to this important request. Sincerely, Charles E. Schumer United States Senator Kirsten Gillibrand United States Senator Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
05.04.2016	Newburgh, NY- Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after U.S. Navy SEAL Charles Keating IV was killed in combat with ISIL militants in northern Iraq. “I am deeply saddened to hear that U.S. Navy SEAL Charles Keating IV was killed in combat with ISIL militants in Iraq - my thoughts and prayers go out to his family, friends and loved ones. His sacrifice for our country is a stark reminder that the threats posed by ISIL are real, and that we must do everything in our power to ensure its ultimate destruction.”
04.29.2016	Washington — Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) introduced a bill to ensure that the Veterans Administration (VA) is taking the best possible care of disabled veterans. The Appropriate Care for Disabled Veterans Act extends a mandate, previously signed into law, that the VA report to Congress its capacity for the specialized treatment and rehabilitative needs of disabled veterans. “As the son of a Navy veteran who was injured while serving our country, I know how critical it can be for our veterans to receive the best possible care when they come home,” said Rep. Maloney. “This commonsense bill will ensure we hold the VA accountable for doing their job and delivering on their promise – providing top-notch comprehensive and specialized care for our veterans who have sacrificed so much in defense of our freedoms.” “The number of disabled veterans nationwide has been increasing at an alarming rate,” said Rep. Denham. “This common-sense bill requires the VA to provide the comprehensive care they so clearly deserve.” "VA is currently not required to tell Congress how or if it has adequate capacity to provide care for catastrophically disabled veterans,” said Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director of Government Relations at Paralyzed Veterans of America. “In the eight years since the report’s expiration bed closures, staff shortages, and denied access to care have been continuously reported. Reinstating this report will provide Congress with the information necessary to conduct thorough oversight of VA specialized services. This is a high priority for PVA and we applaud Reps. Denham and Maloney for taking up such a critical issue." Severely disabled veterans suffer from a range of issues – spinal cord injury/dysfunction (SCI/D); blindness; traumatic brain injury (TBI); or mental health disorders. They require specialized care, including prosthetic, orthotic and sensory aids. To ensure their needs were met, in 1996 Congress mandated that the VA maintain its capacity for the specialized treatment and rehabilitative needs of disabled veterans based on a number of specific measurements. For spinal cord injuries in particular, this capacity was to be measured by the number of staffed beds and the number of full-time employee equivalents available to provide care. The VA was also required to report this information to Congress after it was reviewed by the VA’s Office of the Inspector General. This reporting requirement has since lapsed. This bill reinstates the requirement and encourages the VA to fulfill President Lincoln's promise “To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan' by serving and honoring the men and women who are America's Veterans.” Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting things done for Hudson Valley veterans despite Washington gridlock. In 2013, Rep. Maloney’s Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act was signed into law, which helped to address the Veterans Administration (VA)’s backlog of disability claims. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act was signed into law to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, the key employment program to help assist, train and find jobs for veterans who have compensable service-connected disabilities. Last month, Rep. Maloney introduced bipartisan legislation to cut through red tape and automatically forgive students loans for eligible disabled veterans. The bipartisan Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act would increase interagency communication and cooperation in order to reduce the burden placed on our veterans to ensure their federal student loans are discharged, a benefit already entitled to veterans with a total and permanent disability (TPD) or a 100 percent service-connected disability. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured over $3 million in guaranteed benefits for more than 800 Hudson Valley veterans and their family members who were owed education, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents’ compensation. Rep. Maloney has also hosted four veterans resources and jobs fairs with dozens of local veterans organizations, and has secured over 129 service medals, including 3 Bronze Star Medals and 3 Purple Hearts.
04.26.2016	Washington – In response to reports of increased persecution of members of the LGBTQ community in Saudi Arabia, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney led a bipartisan letter to Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the United States highlighting American concerns for human rights abuses and clarifying that those abuses will negatively impact American-Saudi relations. Okaz, a liberal Saudi newspaper, first reported that prosecutors in the city of Jeddah were seeking the death penalty for those accused of engaging in homosexual behavior. While LGBTQ rights in Saudi Arabia have been an ongoing concern, the recent reports from LGBTQ activists in the kingdom alleging that a task force has been established to conduct sting operations over social media targeting members of the LGBTQ community – coupled with recent calls for capital punishment for LGBTQ Saudis – underscored the need for action. “No one – regardless of where they live– should be subject to torture or capital punishment because of who they are or who they love,” said Rep. Maloney, a Co-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus. “The reports are horrifying, unacceptable and demand an immediate response from the United States.” "LGBT people in the Middle East continue to face enormous challenges, from social stigma to persecution and violence," said David Stacy, Director of Government Affairs at the Human Rights Campaign. "With the rise of ISIL and other jihadist groups in the region, the pressure has gotten worse, and it is crucial that we stand up for the human rights of Saudi LGBT people, as Rep. Maloney and his colleagues have, to make it clear that crimes against them will not go unnoticed." “We are grateful for Rep. Maloney’s leadership in highlighting the horrific climate of fear and hatred experienced by Saudi LGBT people, including recent calls for execution of Saudi citizens who publicly identify as LGBT,” said Human Rights First’s Shawn Gaylord. “We hope Saudi Ambassador Prince Abdullah Al Saud will carefully consider how the continued persecution of Saudi’s LGBT community will negatively impact the bilateral relationship." “Fundamental rights, including free expression and peaceful dissent, are routinely and severely suppressed in Saudi Arabia,” said Daniel Calingaert, Executive Vice President of Freedom House. “The human rights of LGBT people should be respected everywhere. They should not be singled out for discrimination, let alone face criminal charges and prosecution.” 33 Members of Congress signed onto the letter with Rep. Maloney including Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Mark Takano (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI) , John Conyers (D-MI), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Brad Ashford (D-NE), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Elliott Engel (D-NY), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Scott Peters (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), and Seth Moulton (D-MA). The full letter is as follows: Dear Mr. Ambassador, Recent media reports emanating from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have sparked considerable alarm in the United States. Particularly concerning are reports on the Joint Security Task Force to Fight against Sexual Anomaly, and the use of torture and capital punishment against the LGBTQ community. Reports suggest that the task force investigates and charges members of the LGBTQ community as though they were pedophiles or rapists. There have also been reports that citizens identifying themselves as LGBTQ on social media can be punished by flogging or even execution. These reports are highly concerning. Our country respects the sovereignty and cultural traditions of other nations. We want to be clear, however, that the persecution, torture and execution of members of the LGBTQ community are clear violations of human rights. Such actions will be an impediment to the mutually beneficial relations that should exist between our two nations. The United States stands with oppressed peoples worldwide. Please know that we watch the treatment of LGBTQ individuals, women, victims of rape and domestic violence, religious and ethnic minorities and political dissenters with great interest. Thank you for your attention to this letter. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
04.26.2016	Newburgh, NY – During National Reentry Week and as part of his comprehensive criminal justice reform agenda, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced he is urging companies and communities in the Hudson Valley to join the “Ban the Box” initiative. This initiative aims to provide increased job opportunities for qualified job applicants whose preliminary applications may be overlooked because they were required to check a box indicating a criminal record. This past week, Rep. Maloney sent letters to dozens of employers and local officials asking them to join thousands of companies nationwide in helping to eliminate the unnecessary barriers to employment for individuals with a criminal record. “Our criminal justice system is broken from start to finish. We say we want folks who serve their time to get a job when they leave the system, but all too often the job applications they fill out make it impossible for them to get a fair shot. Companies and communities across New York have joined together to ban the box and ensure that job applications no longer prevent millions of qualified Americans from being considered for jobs – working together we should break down the barriers for those struggling to put their lives back together,” said Rep. Maloney. Rep. Maloney is a co-sponsor of the Fair Chance Act, which would “ban the box” on applications for employment with federal agencies and federal contractors. In addition, Rep. Maloney recently joined his colleagues in calling on President Obama to take executive action to “ban the box” on federal job applications, including federal contractors. The full text of the letter is below: Dear XX: I write to encourage your involvement in the “Ban the Box” initiative, which aims to provide increased job opportunities for qualified applicants who may have previously been arrested or convicted of a crime. As you may be aware, nearly one in three adults in the United States have questionable information related to previous actions that would show up on a routine criminal background check. Additionally, more than 70 million Americans have a criminal record that makes it increasingly more difficult to secure long term employment. In response to these issues, which affect both prospective employees and potential employers, elected officials from across the political spectrum have embraced “fair chance” hiring reforms. It is my intention to restore hope and opportunity to qualified job-seekers that may otherwise not be able to pursue employment opportunities due to a preliminary background check. Should you wish to join me and dozens of major companies including PepsiCo, Koch Industries, Starbucks and Google in banning the box indicating a criminal record on preliminary employment applications, you would join thousands of public and private sector employers in delaying the criminal history check until further along in the employment application process. Please know your actions in this regard will not prevent you from being made aware of the criminal history of prospective employees. Embracing this initiative will allow candidates the opportunity to prove their qualifications instead of being immediately rejected without consideration due to their past. In doing so, we can work together to eliminate unnecessary barriers to employment for individuals with a criminal record. Therefore, I ask that you consider adopting these hiring practices which would increase job opportunities for many more hardworking New Yorkers. Should you wish to join me in this initiative, or if you have any questions or concerns related to this topic, please do not hesitate to contact my Newburgh District Office at (845) 561-1259. Thank you in advance for your time and consideration of this request. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
04.22.2016	Lagrangeville, NY – In celebration of Earth Day, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced legislation at Arlington High School to provide funding to schools to encourage green development of their aging infrastructure. The School Modernization And Revitalization Through (SMART) Jobs Act would authorize funding for the development of green schools, which would encourage energy efficiency and the use of renewables, and create numerous high-skilled jobs in the clean energy industry. “As a father, I believe we owe it to our children to adopt policies which will preserve our environment and create a healthier world for them to grow,” said Rep. Maloney. “Incentivizing our schools to adopt environmentally-responsible building practices creates a better learning environment for students while creating more good-paying high skilled jobs in the Hudson Valley.” “Energy conservation and green technology are not only what's best for our environment, but they save crucial dollars that can be used for the education of our students. I have no doubt that, if approved, Congressman Maloney’s proposal for increased federal dollars for green initiative projects will be put to good use by Arlington and many other school districts,” said Dr. Brendan Lyons, Superintendent of Schools for Arlington School District. “When I read about the Green Schools initiative being put forward by Congressman Maloney, it struck me that our government would be encouraging Arlington and other school districts in our region to demonstrate how it’s possible to save on the bottom line of our early operating costs while also reducing the carbon footprint of our school buildings,” said Jacob Lawrence, science teacher and Energy Education Specialist at Arlington High School. “This bill will offer school districts in our region the opportunity to upgrade the health, safety, and educational environment of our public school buildings.” Mary Filardo, lead researcher and writer of the report of the 21st Century School Fund, National Council on School Facilities and the Center for Green Schools of the U.S. Green Building Council, said, "The SMART Jobs Act is one critical part of taking care of the nation's public school facilities. A federal contribution to ensure capital investments can be made in the lowest wealth communities is essential to giving all students the opportunity to succeed." “The neglect of public school buildings and their inability to support education erodes our society’s ability to compete globally. Modern school facilities that meet modern safety standards and the evolving needs of a burgeoning school population are essential. Rep. Maloney’s SMART Jobs would make meaningful steps to address this problem,” said Martin Hight, Senior Manager, Government Relations at American Society of Civil Engineers. “I’m glad to support the Congressman’s great efforts to support our schools. Schools provide a unique laboratory for young people to learn about energy efficiency in accordance with taking care of our facilities and we applaud and fully support the great work of Congressman Maloney,” said Joe Van De Loo, Executive Director of the New York State Facilities Association. The SMART Jobs Act will authorize $6.4 billion for the renovation, modernization, and repair of academic facilities using environmentally-sensitive building practices. The majority of funding will be required to be used to promote the use of green building standards. Of the $6.4 billion allocated for construction, $600 million will be designated for public schools in Presidential Declared Disaster Areas still recovering from damage. In addition, it would require school districts to publicly report the educational, energy, health and environmental benefits of projects, how they comply with the green building standards, and the percentage of funds used for projects at low-income, rural and charter schools. It would also require the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to disseminate best practices in school construction and to provide technical assistance to states and school districts regarding best practices. Finally, this legislation would create numerous high-skilled jobs in the clean energy industry and ensure fair wages and benefits for workers by applying the Davis-Bacon protections to all grants.
04.22.2016	Newburgh, NY – On Earth Day, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) hosted a roundtable with Hudson Valley farmers at Soons Orchards in New Hampton, NY to discuss local agriculture priorities, conservation efforts and ways to support the next generation of Hudson Valley farmers. In attendance were representatives from the New York Farm Bureau, the National Young Farmers Coalition, area land trusts and non-profits, Cornell Cooperative Extension and local Hudson Valley farmers. “Our hardworking farmers create thousands of jobs and bring back over one hundred million dollars to our Hudson Valley economy,” said Rep. Maloney, a Member of the House Agriculture Committee. “Our farmers know the situation on the ground better than anyone else, which is why I want to hear directly from local farmers and producers about their concerns and priorities – particularly what we can do to incentivize the next generation of farmers and provide beginning farmers with the tools they need to succeed.” “We were delighted to host Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney, growers and farm advocates from around the Hudson Valley at our family farm today for a lively discussion of problems and solutions to the many challenges facing local agriculture. Congressman Maloney has been pro-active since day one for farmers, identifying opportunities to help a critical component of our local economy to not just survive, but thrive. Kudos to his office for organizing gatherings like this one, and always being available to listen, and better yet, act,” said Sharon Soons, Soons Orchard. “New York Farm Bureau appreciates Congressman Maloney taking the time to meet with young farmers in his district to hear their concerns. Starting a new farm business comes with many challenges including access to land, capital and navigating complicated regulatory systems. Congressman Maloney clearly understands that young farmers are important to the future economy and maintaining the rich history of the Hudson Valley,” said Elizabeth Wolters, Associate Director of Public Policy at New York Farm Bureau. "Young farmers are their own best advocates. I'm glad Representative Maloney brought together this group of farmers and service providers to talk about how we help the next generation succeed,” said Lindsey Shute, Co-founder and Executive Director of National Young Farmers Coalition. According to the most recent census data, Agriculture showed a 4.3% decline in the number of principal farmers compared with 2007. The report also found that the average age of principal farmers has continued to rise – causing concern amongst key stakeholders that the industry is not attracting enough new entrants to the industry. Maloney is a cosponsor of the Young Farmer Success Act, legislation designed to incentivize careers in farming. The bill would designate farming as a public service under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, and allow qualified applicants to receive full federal student loan forgiveness after ten years of on-time payments. Immediately after joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney hosted his first Agriculture Town Hall where he heard that Congress and the USDA must do a better job protecting hardworking farmers in the Hudson Valley – especially in the aftermath of devastating storms like Hurricane Irene. In response to this Town Hall, Rep. Maloney introduced his first bill, the bipartisan CROP Act, which aimed to reform crop insurance and invest in the specialty crop farmers who drive the Hudson Valley’s agricultural economy. Rep. Maloney’s CROP Act, along with other key priorities for the Hudson Valley, was included in the 2014 Farm Bill.
04.20.2016	Washington – As part of his comprehensive strategy to combat the opioid epidemic in the Hudson Valley, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced legislation to cut down on opioid abuse by improving education for prescribing physicians and encouraging the pharmaceutical industry to include anti-abuse properties in new medications. The Opioid Review Modernization Act would ensure that drug companies seeking Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for medications that fail to use abuse-deterrent technologies, like extended-release capsules, would be required to obtain additional levels of expert approval. In addition, it would create a strategy for educating our doctors on the potential harms in overprescribing opioids. “No single strategy can solve this problem - we need a comprehensive approach that builds on proven methods and innovative solutions to end the overprescribing of opioids, get drugs off our streets, and expand prevention and treatment efforts,” said Rep. Maloney. “This bipartisan legislation is another tool in our tool belt to combat the opioid epidemic by providing incentives for pharmaceutical companies to use anti-abuse technologies and create a plan to educate our well-meaning doctors about the potential dangers of prescription opioids.” The Opioid Review Modernization Act would require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to establish an advisory committee to evaluate new drugs which do not contain abuse-deterrent properties. The committee would also solicit outside input and provide a period for public comments. If pharmaceutical producers choose to include abuse-deterrent components in new medicines, they would have the option to bypass the committee. This process would incentivize the use of abuse-deterrent technology in new medication by offering an expedited path to approval. The bill would also require the FDA to develop a suggested curriculum for doctors who prescribe opioids as part of the agency’s Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS). Currently, no comprehensive strategy exists to ensure all doctors are aware of the potential for abuse inherent in opioid-based medication. Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ-7) is an original co-sponsor. Last month Rep. Maloney introduced another bill to combat the opioid epidemic, the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would provide law enforcement with the option to divert low-level drug offenders directly to treatment instead of booking them and sending them through the criminal justice system. In early April, law enforcement personnel from throughout the Hudson Valley joined Rep. Maloney to call for passage of the bill. Last week, the Orange County Legislature passed a resolution supporting the bill and calling on Congress to take action. Earlier this year, Rep. Maloney held a telephone town hall on the heroin and opioid epidemic with over 21,000 Hudson Valley residents.
04.18.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced more than $2.2 million in federal funding for Head Start of Eastern Orange County, Inc. This investment will support Early Learning and Head Start programs that provide education and development services for low-income children. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured more than $5 million in federal Health and Human Services (HHS) investments for Head Start programs in Orange County alone. “As a father of three kids, I understand the importance, and the cost, of laying a strong academic foundation for our children - it's the single most important investment we can make,” said Rep. Maloney. “Kids who participate in Head Start and other early childhood programs are more prepared for the future than kids who don’t, and this federal investment will ensure more of our children have the tools they need to succeed." “Educating our children is one of the best ways we have to break the cycle of poverty,” said Ann Pagliaro, Executive Director of Head Start of Eastern Orange County. “We rely on federal investments to continue providing early childhood education and health services to children in need. We thank Representative Maloney for his continued support of our work on behalf of children and families in Orange County.” This federal investment builds upon previous awards that Maloney secured for Head Start programs in Orange County. In February, Rep. Maloney announced that his office secured a $1.7 million grant for the Regional Economic Community Action Program (RECAP), which totals over $3 million secured in the past two years for RECAP. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured a total of over $5 million for Head Start programs in Orange County. Together, these awards will continue to provide families across the Hudson Valley with the resources needed to provide education and development services for children and families. Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide comprehensive child development programs for children from birth to age 5, pregnant women, and families. The programs focus on preparing children for school. Head Start of Eastern Orange County is a non-profit organization which provides education to more than 300 children in the Hudson Valley and employs more than 40 full-time staff. Their mission is to provide the highest quality program to meet the health, education, and social supports of children and families so that they can be successful in school and in life.
04.14.2016	Washington — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18) introduced legislation to monitor Iran’s nuclear activities and ensure Iran is in complete compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Rep. Maloney’s JCPOA Intelligence Enforcement Act would ensure that U.S. intelligence agencies coordinate their efforts to monitor Iran’s nuclear activities and ensure that they are in full compliance of the agreement, and encourages the Director of National Intelligence to partner with our allies in the Middle East to specifically combat Iran’s destabilizing activities in the region. “Whether you supported the JCPOA or not we can all agree that we need to watch Iran and the implementation of the deal like a hawk. In particular we need to ensure our intelligence agencies have all the resources they need to keep Iran in check and to partner with our allies to combat any potential funding of terrorism. This legislation will coordinate our efforts at the intelligence level to ensure we have across the board integration on implementation, early warning systems to keep track of potential violations, and identify intelligence gaps that need be filled – not only demanding Iran’s compliance with the deal, but holding them accountable for any and all violations,” said Rep. Maloney. “Congressman Maloney’s bill is an excellent idea, and the strong language reiterates the U.S. position on the implementation of the JCPOA and Iranian compliance in order to impede Iran from acquiring nuclear missiles. This bill would be an important move forwards towards the goal of bipartisan support to curb Iran’s breach of the UN resolution that confirmed the nuclear agreement and restricts Iran from launching missiles capable of carrying a nuclear warhead,” said Leslie Green, President of Jewish Federation of Greater Orange County, N.Y. and AIPAC activist. Specifically, this legislation would require the Director of National Intelligence to establish an intelligence integration cell among relevant intelligence agencies in order to integrate intelligence related to monitoring and enforcement of the JCPOA by: coordinating and synchronizing all collection related to implementation of the JCPOA; integrating early warning systems of intelligence agencies for potential violations of the JCPOA; and identifying intelligence gaps related to JCPOA monitoring. In addition it would encourage U.S. intelligence agencies to establish a joint fusion cell with our Middle Eastern allies which would: combat Iran’s disruptive regional activities including their support for terrorist proxy entities such as Hezbollah; find and disrupt illegal transfers of weapons and materials by Iran and its proxies; and protect the territory of key U.S. regional allies. Lastly, the JCPOA Intelligence Enforcement Act would encourage the Director of National Intelligence to establish U.S.-Israeli intelligence working group focused on enhancing intelligence sharing on: Iranian support for Hezbollah; Iranian weapons smuggling programs; Iran’s ballistic missile and space program; and Iran’s nuclear activities.
04.12.2016	Washington – With women still earning less than men nationally, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced an agenda to “Expand Economic Opportunities for Women.” Equal Pay Day is the symbolic day when, more than three months into the year, women's earnings catch up to men's earnings from the previous year. According to the most recent statistics, women in the Hudson Valley earn on average nearly $12,000 less per year than men, or they earn approximately 80% compared to their male counterpart. “Women in the Hudson Valley are more likely to be the breadwinners, caretakers, innovators, and leaders at home, at work, and in our communities,” said Rep. Maloney. “We all benefit when women and girls are treated equally – it makes our families, community and economy stronger, and as the father of two young girls I want to ensure they grow up in a country where they have economic security and equal opportunity. It’s time for Congress to follow New York’s lead and invest in an agenda that tears down barriers and expands women’s economic opportunities.” According to a report from the United States Joint Economic Committee, the Hudson Valley was ranked 17th out of New York’s 27 Congressional Districts for gender pay equity. This year’s report marked an improvement over the previous two years reported, both of which listed the 18th district as the least equitable district in New York for gender pay equity. Earlier this month, New York State passed a budget that would implement the most comprehensive paid family medical leave program in the country, and would incrementally raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour. Rep. Maloney’s Plan to “Expand Economic Opportunities for Women”: Strengthen Equal Pay Act More than fifty years after President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act, Hudson Valley women working full time earn 80.8% of men’s median earnings. This amounts to a yearly gap of $11,732. Nationally, women make on average 79 cents for every dollar earned by men, which amount to a yearly gap of $10,800. The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work and protecting employees from retaliation for sharing salary information with their co-workers. Increase the Federal Minimum Wage to $15.00 More than 6 in 10 minimum wage workers in New York are women, and someone working full time, year round at minimum wage today earns just $18,000. New York State just passed a minimum wage increase, but the federal minimum wage would ensure women nationwide would earn a living wage. In addition to supporting the minimum wage increase recently passed in New York, Representative Maloney is supporting the Pay Workers a Living Wage Act, which would raise the federal minimum wage to $15.00 over the next four years – giving millions of Americans a pay increase, including women. Establish National Paid Family and Medical Leave Current Family and Medical Leave law provides unpaid, job-protected leave for serious health related events for only about half of the workforce. The other half don’t qualify for this unpaid leave, and many more simply cannot afford to take it because it is unpaid. The Family and Medical Insurance Leave (FAMILY) Act would establish a national paid family and medical leave insurance program, ensuring that American workers would no longer have to choose between a paycheck and caring for themselves or a family member. Expanding the Child Care Tax Credit Over 90 percent of families use some kind of child care. Our tax code must catch up to working parents with young children. Current law limits benefits to families with incomes greater than $43,000 to a 20 percent credit instead of the full 35 percent credit. Middle-class families should be able to claim the full tax credit for their child care expenses. Increase Quality and Affordable Early Childhood Education Investing in early education programs like Head Start is one of the single most important things we can do to open up opportunities for kids and set our children up for a lifetime of success. The Strong Start for America's Children Act is an innovative federal-state partnership to expand and improve early learning opportunities for children across the birth to kindergarten. The Early Childhood Nutrition Improvement Act would help child care centers, Head Start programs, and afterschool programs provide nutritious meals and snacks to children. Making College More Affordable Women are 21 percent more likely to be college graduates and 48 percent more likely to have completed graduate school. Yet increasingly college graduates are saddled with unmanageable and crushing student loan debt payments preventing them from buying a home or starting their own business. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act would allow borrowers with high interest rates on their outstanding student loans to refinance at much lower levels. Protect a Woman’s Freedom of Choice A woman’s right to choose is a decision best made by a woman, her doctor and her family – not Washington politicians. Instead of defunding Planned Parenthood, we should ensure woman have access to affordable preventive healthcare services including breast and cervical cancer screenings. Support Women Entrepreneurs and Small Businesses Women entrepreneurs account for just $1 out of every $23 in small business lending, despite representing approximately 30 percent of all small companies. They are also more likely to be turned down for loans or face less favorable terms than men. The Women’s Small Business Ownership Act would improve access to lending and increase business counseling and training services for women entrepreneurs, and give women-owned businesses more access to federal contracts. Rep. Maloney first released his plan to “Expand Economic Opportunities for Women” in 2014, which Politico called “one of the most extensive efforts” to highlight economic challenges facing women.
04.05.2016	Goshen, NY— In response to the growing heroin and opioid epidemic, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Orange County District Attorney David Hoovler and local police chiefs to call for passage of Rep. Maloney’s bipartisan legislation to combat the opioid and heroin crisis and stop mass incarceration of abusers and low-level drug offenders. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would create a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program to fund pre-booking drug diversion programs, which give law enforcement the option of diverting individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them, in counties designated as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). In the Hudson Valley, which has seen more than 1,135 opioid-related deaths in the last decade, Rep. Maloney has secured HIDTA designations for Putnam and Dutchess Counties, in addition to Orange and Westchester Counties. “There is no city or town in Orange County, and the Hudson Valley, that has not been devastated by the growing heroin and opioid epidemic – I hear it from folks everywhere I go. In many of our communities law enforcement officers are on the frontlines of both crime and treatment and this legislation provides them with a critical tool to divert these individuals to treatment instead of chronically arresting them,” said Rep. Maloney. “There is no silver bullet solution, but working together with our local law enforcement, prosecutors, and community leaders we can make sure those on the frontlines have the support they need to expand prevention and treatment efforts, get drugs off our streets, and keep our children safe.” "I fully support law enforcement assisted diversion as a cost-effective program in rehabilitating low-level drug offenders. The program places the discretion to deal with these low-level offenders in the appropriate place, with local police officers who know their residents and communities best. I want to thank Congressman Maloney for his efforts in attempting to bring funding for this much needed program to Orange County,” said David Hoovler, Orange County District Attorney. “I support Congressman Maloney’s Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act. I believe that police have to be progressive and as we face new challenges we need to expand the tools in our toolbox, and this legislation is a power tool in our tool box,” said City of Newburgh Police Chief Daniel Cameron. "The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act (H.R. 4654) is another invaluable tool for law enforcement as they are often on the front line encountering those in the thralls of addiction. Getting low level offenders and substance abusers at the time of the initial encounter into treatment services is crucial to empower that individual to make changes towards a healthier and more productive life. This Act will also serve to address the stigma that is often associated with substance abusers as they became a part of the criminal justice system due to their addiction. Working with community coalitions and substance abuse prevention providers will further increase community awareness of funded law enforcement agency's ability to divert low level drug offenders and substance abusers into these services while bridging the often fragile community police relations that have arisen due to the substance abuse issues in our local communities,” said Dawn Wilkin, Assistant Director of Prevention Services Catholic Charities Community Services of Orange County & The Recovery Center of Sullivan County. Prescription drug abuse is a growing public health crisis that affects people of every race, income, and educational level. In 2013, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam and Westchester Counties had 233 reported deaths from drug overdoses. In 2010 alone, opioids contributed to over 16,000 deaths and heroin-involved overdose deaths nearly doubled between 2011 and 2013. According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) 2014 National Survey on Drug Abuse, 4.3 million people 12 years or older reported currently abusing prescription drugs. Moreover, each year drug abuse and addiction costs over $534 billion, but the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) estimates that we could save $4-$7 in criminal justice costs for every dollar invested in treatment and prevention. Additionally, 2.3 million Americans are incarcerated, and approximately 50% of these inmates are clinically addicted. In fact, approximately 60% of individuals arrested for most criminal activity test positive for illicit drugs at the time of the arrest. Furthermore, imprisonment has little effect on drug abuse as approximately 95% return to drug use after their release and between 60-80% of drug abusers commit a new crime, which are typically drug-driven. Individuals that participated in the Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) pilot program in Seattle found that participants had nearly 60% lower odds of being rearrested, and in Gloucester, MA the Angel program has cut costs from $220 to $55 per addict when they diverted them to treatment instead of arresting, processing and holding them in custody for just a single day. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act (H.R. 4654) would award grants, funded through the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Justice Programs, to assist law enforcement agencies in providing pre-booking diversion programs developed with local drug treatment programs and local prosecutors to address low-level drug crimes. The program would allow law enforcement officers, at their discretion, to redirect low-level offenders engaged in drug activity to community-based services, instead of jail and prosecution. By diverting eligible individuals to treatment services instead of incarceration, the programs would improve public safety and public order, and reduce the criminal behavior of people who participate in the program. The legislation would also allow the Attorney General to collect first-of-its-kind data on these programs. This legislation is the first component of Rep. Maloney’s criminal justice reform agenda focusing on diversion, defense and re-entry.
04.04.2016	Newburgh, NY — After ensuring the necessary federal funding was included in the 2015 Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and local officials celebrated the 2016-17 New York State budget investment in the rehabilitation of the Woodbury I-87 Interchange at Exit 131. With this investment, the Exit 131 interchange will be restructured to accommodate the heaviest traffic in the region and prepare for the expansion of Woodbury Common and the recently approved development of Montreign Resort Casino. Since 2013, Rep. Maloney has worked closely with U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, Governor Cuomo, New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) Commissioners Joan McDonald and Matthew Driscoll, Senator Bill Larkin, Assemblyman James Skoufis, local and business leaders, and senior administration officials, including dozens of meetings, phone calls and letters, in an effort to secure funding for the Woodbury I-87 interchange in Orange County. “Anyone who drives through southern Orange County knows what it’s like to sit in endless traffic around Woodbury Common, which is why fixing this problem has been my top transportation priority since day one. This is the perfect example of what we can achieve when folks from all levels of government team up with local business and civic leaders to get something done,” said Rep. Maloney, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “From securing billions in federal transportation funding to prioritizing local projects at the state level, I was proud to work with Governor Cuomo, Senator Larkin, Assemblyman Skoufis, County Executive Neuhaus, Supervisor Sutz and many others through every step of the process to show that we can invest in our local infrastructure, create good-paying jobs and grow our economy.” Immediately after taking office in 2013, Rep. Maloney met with then-NYSDOT Commissioner Joan McDonald regarding the Woodbury I-87 interchange, and wrote a letter in support of a competitive Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant application for funding the project. Later that year, Rep. Maloney wrote a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx articulating the top transportation priorities for the 18th congressional district, indicating the Woodbury I-87 interchange as the top priority project. In February 2014, Rep. Maloney sent a memorandum to Larry Schwartz, then-Secretary to Governor Cuomo listing the Woodbury I-87 interchange as a top priority. Then in March 2014, Rep. Maloney again met with Commissioner McDonald and in August of that year, Rep. Maloney once again wrote the Commissioner highlighting the Woodbury I-87 interchange as the top transportation priority in the Hudson Valley. In May 2015, Rep. Maloney met with William Mulrow, Secretary to Governor Cuomo and submitted a memorandum stating that, “the Exit 131 interchange improvement is the most critical transportation project in the Hudson Valley.” Following dozens of meetings, phone calls, and letters, including a meeting on February 24, 2016 with current NYSDOT Commissioner Matthew Driscoll, Rep. Maloney led more than 45 government, business, and community leaders urging Governor Cuomo and NYSDOT to include Woodbury I-87 interchange in the 2016-17 New York State budget agreement.
04.03.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after an Amtrak train derailed south of Philadelphia, on April 3rd. I’m saddened to hear of yet another tragic train derailment, which has taken the lives of more innocent people. Too many times our thoughts and prayers have gone out to victims of tragic train accidents in Valhalla and Philadelphia, from North Carolina to California, and now once again just south of Philadelphia. While the investigation into what happened is just beginning, we can’t forget that there are real steps we can take now to make our trains safer and stop many preventable accidents from happening. Nearly one year ago, just miles from this Amtrak crash, 8 innocent people were killed because the train they were riding lacked basic technology that could have saved their lives – the longer we fail to prioritize investing in rail safety technology, the more innocent lives we put in jeopardy. Rep. Maloney is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has been a leader on rail safety and investing in positive train control (PTC), a simple Wi-Fi and GPS technology that can stop or slow trains remotely. In December 2015, Rep. Maloney’s Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015 was signed into law, which requires passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify high-hazard curves, like those involved in the Spuyten Duyvil and Philadelphia train derailments, and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installing of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication. In March 2015, the House also passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads.
04.02.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined firefighters at the Newburgh Fire Department to once again call on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to approve the Department’s application for a Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant through FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The Newburgh Fire Department and the City have once again submitted a grant in the hopes of securing additional funding to keep its Department fully staffed. Rep. Maloney has written a letter of support and been in close contact with FEMA regarding the most current application, which is expected to be ruled upon this summer. “I’ve been working hand-in-glove with the Newburgh Fire Department, City of Newburgh, and FEMA to ensure Newburgh is awarded the SAFER grant to hire additional firefighters and prevent potential layoffs - without this funding our firefighters are dangerously understaffed and unnecessarily risking their own safety to protect ours,” said Rep. Maloney, who was presented an award from Local IAFF for his unrelenting support of the Newburgh Fire Department. “Getting more firefighters on the job has been a priority of mine since day one and I will keep fighting until our heroes get the support they deserve – together we will get this done.” “The City of Newburgh Fire Department greatly appreciates all the hard work Congressman Maloney has done to ensure we can hire new firefighters and prevent any layoffs. Congressman Maloney is a great friend to the Newburgh Fire Department and working together I am hopeful we will secure a SAFER grant to make sure we are fully staffed so we can protect our community and our firefighters on the job,” said City of Newburgh Acting Fire Chief Terry Ahlers. “Congressman Maloney has worked side-by-side with our local firefighters to ensure we get the support we need to do our jobs better and make Newburgh safer. I’m proud to once again stand with Congressman Maloney in urging FEMA to approve our SAFER grant application – his efforts is why I am thrilled to present him with an award on behalf of IAFF for his outstanding work on behalf of our local firefighters,” said Lieutenant Tim Hager, Local IAFF President. Rep. Maloney has a track record of getting results for the Newburgh Fire Department. Although their 2013 grant application was initially denied, Rep. Maloney worked closely with the Newburgh Fire Department and FEMA to ensure the Department received their first SAFER grant, which provided $2.5 million to hire fifteen new firefighters. Then, when twelve firefighters faced layoffs if FEMA did not renew the Newburgh Fire Department’s application in December 2015, Rep. Maloney worked with FEMA, the City of Newburgh, and the Newburgh Fire Department to secure additional funding and prevent layoffs. Recently, Rep. Maloney also announced he secured a SAFER grant for the City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department to hire seven new firefighters. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (SAFER) is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.firegrantsupport.com/ .
04.01.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on Governor Cuomo’s 2016-2017 New York State budget agreement. “Governor Cuomo’s New York State budget agreement is a big deal for New York and a meaningful step forward for millions of hardworking families in the Hudson Valley and across the state. This agreement will make a serious difference in folks’ paychecks and in their daily lives – it raises the minimum wage, creates the most comprehensive family medical leave program in the nation, invests in our schools and our infrastructure, and gives tax breaks to middle class families. “I’ve heard from folks across the Hudson Valley on this – from mothers who just want to be able to take home a paycheck they can sustain a family on, to fathers who are worried about taking the time off they need to care for a loved one – raising the minimum wage and paid family leave are critical. I’m proud New York continues to lead our country on both. “I understand there are some concerns and I take those seriously, but I also don’t want to understate the dramatic impact raising the minimum wage and implementing a comprehensive paid family leave program will have on millions of hardworking New York families. This budget is a game-changer for New York.”
03.23.2016	Washington — Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18) and Lou Barletta (R-PA-11) introduced bipartisan legislation to cut through red tape and automatically forgive students loans for eligible disabled veterans. The bipartisan Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act would increase interagency communication and cooperation in order to reduce the burden placed on our veterans to ensure their federal student loans are discharged, a benefit already entitled to veterans with a total and permanent disability (TPD) or a 100 percent service-connected disability. Currently, the law requires a disabled veteran to seek out this benefit and file the paperwork themselves in order to get their student loans forgiven. “My dad was disabled while serving in the Navy, and when he came home his country had his back, helping him go to college on the GI Bill. But far too often these days, the burden is on our veterans to find and secure the benefits they earned while serving our country. We should be making it easier for our veterans to go to college, not harder,” said Rep. Maloney. “My legislation would cut through bureaucratic red tape and ensure that our disabled veterans automatically get their student loans forgiven – a benefit they’ve been promised and earned but one they rarely get.” “When our brave men and women in the military volunteer for service, they don’t get to pick or choose the time of any deployment. They have selflessly put themselves in harm’s way, and we owe them a debt that we can never fully repay. When they return from the military with a disability, we ought to be clearing barriers for them, not bogging them down in red tape and paperwork. Automatically forgiving student debt is but one benefit they deserve,” said Rep. Barletta. “Requiring the Department of Education, VA, and DOD to coordinate so qualifying veterans always receive their student loan discharges is the right thing to do. The VFW supports the Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act of 2016, and thanks Congressmen Maloney and Barletta for their leadership on this issue,” said Ray Kelley, VFW National Legislative Director. “Veterans with a 100 percent service-connected disability are entitled to loan forgiveness, yet the burden is on the veteran to ensure they get their loans forgiven. DAV supports Representatives Maloney and Barletta and commends them for introducing legislation that would cut through the red tape and ensure the veterans who sacrificed in service to our nation automatically get the student loan forgiveness they deserve,” said Paul Varela, Disabled American Veterans. “For 100-percent service-connected disabled veterans burdened with student debt, the Department of Education loan forgiveness program can be a crucial lifeline to help them avoid financial distress. Yet many who qualify are unaware of this benefit and continue to struggle with their loans. Reps. Maloney and Barletta’s important legislation will remove barriers and reach more qualified veterans who have earned this benefit through their sacrifice,” said Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director, Government Relations, Paralyzed Veterans of America. “100% disabled veterans already have the option for loan forgiveness, and this bill simplifies the process by which they can access this benefit,” said MOAA President Lt. Gen. Dana Atkins, USAF (Ret). “Any measure that will support re-adjustment and quality of life after becoming 100% disabled not only makes sense, it’s the right thing to do.” “Once again Congressman Maloney is at the forefront of Veteran's issues. This legislation is another attempt by our elected officials and citizens to express their gratitude to the service members and their families for their continued sacrifices during difficult times. This type of genuine concern and treatment should be both an incentive and motivating factor for those individuals who are contemplating military service in the future,” said General John Hussey, Chair of Rep. Maloney’s Veteran Advisory Board. “There are far too many programs that exist to benefit veterans but never do. The Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act of 2016 ensures that the military men and women who’ve bravely put the welfare of their countrymen first, and in the process have become totally and permanently disabled, are now relieved of having to repay their personal student loans – without having to fill out any paperwork. That’s what we call “taking care of the troops,”” said Christian Farrell, Director, Orange County Veterans Services Agency. “Each and every veteran deserves our appreciation for the sacrifices they’ve made for our country. The challenge of returning to the civilian sector can be difficult for many of our veterans, but specifically our disabled veterans,” said Dr. Kristine Young, president of SUNY Orange. “Representative Maloney is working to assure veterans have every opportunity to access higher education and take advantage of the many benefits they have earned. His bill represents exactly why SUNY Orange has recently hired veteran Jaime Morales to serve as our veterans coordinator. We want to be sure to help our student veterans connect with every benefit available to them, including the items detailed in Representative Maloney’s bill.” “Enhancing inter-agency communication to ensure our disabled veterans receive the student loan benefits they’ve earned is the right thing to do,” said Dr. Pamela Edington, president of Dutchess Community College. “We work every day to assist veterans in accessing the programs and services to which they’re entitled; reducing bureaucracy to help those who sacrificed so much for this country is a positive and important step.” “At the Mount we have helped many disabled veterans to navigate the current system. I think increased coordination is needed to be sure our veterans access the benefits they have earned. The resources should be automatically discharged to eligible veterans to remove the burden of paperwork that is upon them. Having the Department of Education be required to notify the veteran, when the loan is discharged would avoid tremendous stress on those who have protected our freedoms,” said Lisa Gallina, Director of Admissions for Graduate Programs and Adult Degree Retention, Mount Saint Mary College. The bipartisan Disabled Veterans Student Loan Protection Act would ensure greater cooperation between the Department of Education, Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense by establishing a system for transferring relevant information for veterans with 100-percent service-connected disabilities who have outstanding loans, automatically discharging the student loans, and notifying the veterans that their loan has been discharged. This legislation has been endorsed by: Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), The American Veterans (AMVETS), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), and the Student Veterans of America (SVA).
03.22.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium. “Our hearts go out to the victims and their families of the devastating terrorist attacks in Brussels. As New Yorkers and Americans we know first-hand that we are stronger when we stand together, and today we stand with the people of Belgium in demanding an end to these indiscriminate acts of terror and violence in Belgium and across the world. Now is not the time to succumb to fear or isolation - now is the time to work together to bring those responsible for these attacks to swift justice. “And let me be clear, the United States and our allies will ensure ISIL's destruction. As long as these terrorists continue to target and murder innocent people, we will be relentless in our pursuit.”
03.18.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding Neighborhood Office Hours in Montgomery, New Windsor and Highlands. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. In addition, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with a federal government agency, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “I’m here to work for folks in the Hudson Valley, and our office is here to be their advocate and help cut through any bureaucratic red tape of the federal government,” said Rep. Maloney. “Too often people feel like no one is fighting for them, and neighborhood office hours is one of the best ways I can meet with my neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to hear how we can better serve them.” Representative Maloney’s office has handled over 3,000 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $5.5 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHEN: Saturday, March 19th from 11:30 AM – 12:30 PM WHERE: Mike’s Deli & Pizza at 135 Union Street in Montgomery WHEN: Saturday, March 19th from 2:30 PM – 3:30 PM WHERE: New Windsor Town Hall - Courtroom at 555 Union Avenue in New Windsor WHEN: Saturday, March 19th from 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM WHERE: Town of Highlands Town Hall at 254 Main Street in Highland Falls
03.16.2016	Washington - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after President Barack Obama nominated Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court. Merrick Garland is the Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Court. “Merrick Garland is an unimpeachable choice for the Supreme Court. A nominee with impeccable credentials and extensive experience, Merrick Garland has not only already been confirmed by a Republican Senate, but Senator Orrin Hatch has said Garland is a ‘consensus nominee,’ who would unquestionably win bipartisan support. I second this opinion. “Senate Republicans have made clear that they will refuse to do their jobs and uphold the constitution by giving a serious hearing to any Supreme Court nominee – this is not only deeply disappointing but a violation of our sworn oath. The Supreme Court is just too important - I urge my Republican colleagues in the Senate to put partisan politics aside and confirm Merrick Garland to the bench without delay.”
03.16.2016	Washington – In response to the growing heroin and opioid epidemic, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) brought together local, state and federal resources on a telephone town hall with over 21,000 neighbors from the Hudson Valley. Last week, Rep. Maloney introduced the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act to combat the opioid and heroin epidemic and stop mass incarceration of abusers and low-level drug offenders. “I’ve heard it from folks in every neighborhood in the Hudson Valley – the heroin and opioid epidemic is killing our children and devastating our communities,” said Rep. Maloney. “There is no silver bullet solution, but working together with local, state and federal officials we can make sure those on the frontlines have the support they need to expand prevention and treatment efforts, get drugs off our streets, and keep our children safe.” "Thank you Congressman for shining the spotlight on this issue and your leadership because as we know the Center for Disease Control has found that heroin and prescription drug abuse is an epidemic. We need more and more attention on it and it is so important what you are doing," said Chauncey Parker, Director of the NY/NJ High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area,” said Chauncey Parker, Director of the NY/NJ High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area. “The bottom line is, now more than ever the Prevention/Treatment community need to have an open door policy that considers those we serve. It is not enough to simply treat a person or community, we are obligated to navigate those in need to appropriate services, regardless of whether we can provide them or not,” said Martin Colavito, Director of Adolescent Prevention Services in Orange and Sullivan Counties Catholic Charities Community Services of Orange County. “Public awareness is one of the most important tools to law enforcement in the effort to combat illegal drugs. Congressman Maloney assists in that awareness by hosting the live telephone Town Hall meetings and inviting police and treatment professionals to participate and help to educate the public on the dangers of these drugs,” said Thomas Pape, Acting Chief of Police, City of Poughkeepsie Police Department. During the town hall, participants were asked to weigh in on the crisis. Polls showed that 52% of respondents believe that heroin is a problem in our schools. Surveys also found that 62% of participants supported a multifaceted approach to addressing the heroin epidemic, including increasing community awareness, enhancing tools for law enforcement, increasing counseling and support services, and imposing tougher penalties. Only 5% of respondents supported raising criminal penalties alone. Last week, Rep. Maloney announced new bipartisan legislation with Rep. Richard Hanna to combat the opioid and heroin epidemic and stop mass incarceration of abusers and low-level drug offenders. By allowing police officers to use their discretion to divert individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them and processing them through the criminal justice system, these programs give police officers the flexibility they need to help curb the growing opioid epidemic, decrease low-level drug crime, and reduce the number of low-level drug related arrests. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would create a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program to fund pre-booking drug diversion programs in counties designated as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) such as Putnam, Westchester, Orange and Dutchess Counties. Recently, Rep. Maloney also announced, in addition to securing $3.7 million for local organizations to combat substance abuse, three local health centers will receive nearly $1 million to combat opioid and heroin abuse in the Hudson Valley. Anyone struggling with addiction is encouraged to use the resources listed below: New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services at oasas.ny.gov or call 1-877-8-HOPENY; Team Newburgh Gateway Center at Newburgh Free Academy at 46 Roe Street, Newburgh, NY 12550 or call 845-569-0034; Permanent Medication Collection Box at Town of Newburgh Police Department at 300 Gardernertown Road, Newburgh, NY 12550, or call 845-564-1100; Mount Kisco Partners in Prevention at 104 Main Street, Mount Kisco, NY 10549, or call 914-241-0500; Putnam County Communities That Care Coalition at 67 Gleneida Avenue Carmel, NY, or call 845-225-4646; Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth at 112 East Post Road, 3rd Floor, White Plains, NY 10601, or call 914-995-4115; Orange County Department of Mental Health 24 Hour Mobile Mental Health Team at 1-888-750-2266; Dutchess County Mental Hygiene Services 24 Hour Crisis Counseling Information and Referral Mobile Crisis Intervention Team at 1-877-485-9700; Westchester Department of Community Mental Health Crisis and Prevention and Response Team at 914-925-5959; Council on Addiction Prevention and Education (CAPE) of Dutchess County at 807 Route 52, Room 28, Fishkill, NY 12524, or call 845-765-8301.
03.14.2016	Washington – Days after announcing a bipartisan bill to combat the opioid epidemic, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will hold a telephone town hall on Tuesday, March 15th at 7:00PM to discuss the heroin epidemic in the Hudson Valley. Joined by the City of Poughkeepsie Police Department, TEAM Newburgh and Chauncey Parker, Director of the NY/NJ High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, Rep. Maloney will answer questions for constituents as well as discuss community resources and law enforcement resources available. Last week, Rep. Maloney announced, in addition to securing $3.7 million for local organizations to combat substance abuse, three local health centers will receive nearly $1 million to combat opioid and heroin abuse in the Hudson Valley. “We need all hands on deck - every community in the Hudson Valley has been hurt by the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic and as the father of two little girls I am struck by the toll this is taking on our children,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “I look forward to hearing from thousands of my neighbors about ways we can protect our children and make smart and strategic investments to get drugs off our streets, focus on prevention, and treat those who are struggling with addiction.” Tens of thousands of residents from the 18th Congressional district will receive an invitation by telephone to participate in the conference call on Tuesday. Constituents in the 18th district can request an invitation in the following ways: Calling Rep. Maloney’s Washington office at 202-225-5441 Visiting Rep. Maloney’s website to sign up Participants will also be given the opportunity to leave a message with their questions or comments at the end of the call. For those unable to participate in the telephone town hall, questions or concerns can be sent to Representative Maloney by calling any of his offices in New York or Washington, by visiting his website at https://seanmaloney.house.gov, connecting with Rep. Maloney on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/repseanmaloney, or following him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepSeanMaloney. Recently, Rep. Maloney announced new bipartisan legislation with Rep. Richard Hanna to combat the opioid and heroin epidemic and stop mass incarceration of abusers and low-level drug offenders. By allowing police officers to use their discretion to divert individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them and processing them through the criminal justice system, these programs give police officers the flexibility they need to help curb the growing opioid epidemic, decrease low-level drug crime, and reduce the number of low-level drug related arrests. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would create a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program to fund pre-booking drug diversion programs in counties designated as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) such as Putnam, Westchester, Orange and Dutchess Counties. In 2016, Rep. Maloney has held three telephone town halls, including a telephone town hall focused on issues of importance to Hudson Valley seniors, and has hosted nearly a dozen “Speak with Sean” events in neighborhoods across the region.
03.14.2016	Washington — Based off of successful drug diversion programs in Seattle and Gloucester, Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Richard Hanna (NY-22) announced new bipartisan legislation to combat the opioid and heroin epidemic and stop mass incarceration of abusers and low-level drug offenders. By allowing police officers to use their discretion to divert individuals directly to treatment instead of booking them and processing them through the criminal justice system, these programs give police officers the flexibility they need to help curb the growing opioid epidemic, decrease low-level drug crime, and reduce the number of low-level drug related arrests. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act would create a Department of Justice (DOJ) grant program to fund pre-booking drug diversion programs in counties designated as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). In the Hudson Valley, which has seen more than 1,135 opioid-related deaths in the last decade, Rep. Maloney has secured HIDTA designations for Putnam and Dutchess Counties, in addition to Orange and Westchester Counties. This legislation is the first component of Rep. Maloney’s criminal justice reform agenda focusing on diversion, defense and re-entry. “Our country is on the edge – we are facing not only a growing heroin epidemic but the realization that simply incarcerating these folks just isn’t working. In many of our communities law enforcement officers are on the frontlines of both crime and treatment and this legislation provides them with a critical tool to divert these individuals to treatment instead of chronically arresting them. Our criminal justice system is broken and cannot be solved unless we stop criminalizing those who need treatment,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our communities are in the throes of a heroin crisis and our court system is overcrowded,” Rep. Hanna said. “We must look at different ways to not only address these issues but overcome them. LEAD programs have gained momentum around the country and municipalities that have tried them have seen impressive results. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Maloney to give our law enforcement officers the tools they need to do what’s best to keep the public safe.” “I applaud Congressmen Maloney and Hanna for their leadership around the issue of drug addiction and keeping our communities safe through treatment. Here in Albany we are excited to launch a Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion initiative where police officers will have the ability to divert arrests away from the criminal justice system into services they need. LEAD not only gets people the help they need but helps to build and restore trust between the police and the communities we serve,” said Albany Police Chief Brendan Cox, who is launching a Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) program, modeled after the successful LEAD pilot program in Seattle, in Albany, NY on April 1st. "On behalf of the Gloucester Police Department and PAARI, we are very happy to see the proactive and cooperative work being done by Congressmen Sean Patrick Maloney and Richard Hanna to combat the disease of addiction. We stand ready to assist and collaborate in any way we can,” said Gloucester Police Chief Leonard Campanello who has led a successful pre-booking drug diversion program, called the PAARI program, in Gloucester, Massachusetts. “Drug policy in this country is focused too much on punishment and not enough on treatment. Congressman Maloney’s bill would give low-level drug offenders a chance to get the medical treatment that anyone with a chronic disease so justly deserves. It can also help end the stigma associated with the horrible disease of addiction,” said Gary Mendell, founder and CEO of Shatterproof. Prescription drug abuse is a growing public health crisis that affects people of every race, income, and educational level. In 2013, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam and Westchester Counties had 233 reported deaths from drug overdoses. In 2010 alone, opioids contributed to over 16,000 deaths and heroin-involved overdose deaths nearly doubled between 2011 and 2013. According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) 2014 National Survey on Drug Abuse, 4.3 million people 12 years or older reported currently abusing prescription drugs. Moreover, each year drug abuse and addiction costs over $534 billion, but the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) estimates that we could save $4-$7 in criminal justice costs for every dollar invested in treatment and prevention. Additionally, 2.3 million Americans are incarcerated, and approximately 50% of these inmates are clinically addicted. In fact, approximately 60% of individuals arrested for most criminal activity test positive for illicit drugs at the time of the arrest. Furthermore, imprisonment has little effect on drug abuse as approximately 95% return to drug use after their release and between 60-80% of drug abusers commit a new crime, which are typically drug-driven. Individuals that participated in the Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) pilot program in Seattle found that participants had nearly 60% lower odds of being rearrested, and in Gloucester, MA the PAARI program has cut costs from $220 to $55 per addict when they diverted them to treatment instead of arresting, processing and holding them in custody for just a single day. The Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act (H.R. 4654) would award grants, funded through the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Justice Programs, to assist law enforcement agencies in providing pre-booking diversion programs developed with local drug treatment programs and local prosecutors to address low-level drug crimes. The program would allow law enforcement officers, at their discretion, to redirect low-level offenders engaged in drug activity to community-based services, instead of jail and prosecution. By diverting eligible individuals to treatment services instead of incarceration, the programs would improve public safety and public order, and reduce the criminal behavior of people who participate in the program. The legislation would also allow the Attorney General to collect first-of-its-kind data on these programs.
03.11.2016	Newburgh, NY – One day after Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called for Speaker Paul Ryan to bring legislation to the floor to combat opioid addiction, Rep. Maloney announced three local health centers will receive a total of $987,386 in federal investments to combat opioid and substance abuse in the Hudson Valley. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured an additional $3.7 million for local organizations to combat substance abuse through youth anti-substance abuse initiatives. “Every community in the Hudson Valley has been hurt by the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic and as the father of two little girls I am struck by the toll this is taking on our children. Working across all levels of government and in partnership with local organizations we must do everything we can to protect our children and make strategic and smart investments to treat those who are struggling with addiction,” said Rep. Maloney Three local health centers in New York’s 18th Congressional District were awarded grants, including: $337,386 for The Greater Hudson Valley Family Health Center $325,000 for Middletown Community Health Center $325,000 for Hudson River Healthcare “As the opioid epidemic continues to grip the lives of the people of our community, we must continue the fight to expand effective and necessary treatment options, such as the ability for addiction medical specialists and other clinicians to prescribe medication assisted treatment to those with addiction,” said Linda Muller, President & CEO of Cornerstone Family Healthcare (formerly the Greater Hudson Valley Family Health Center). “Securing this grant from HRSA will allow us to expand and integrate proven and effective treatment options and services into sites beyond our Center for Recovery in Newburgh. This award signifies an opportunity for a new life … and for this, I am grateful.” “We are so excited about this grant opportunity, not only for Middletown Community Health Center, Inc, but for the community at large. Addiction is a huge problem not only for the user but for their families as well. With this funding we will do our part to help our patients fight this growing public health issue,” said Theresa M. Butler, Chief Executive Officer for Middletown Community Health Center, Inc. “HRHCare is thrilled to have received this much support for care and treatment for patients who otherwise would have their health compromised without this funding. These federal funds will be focused on expanding behavioral health services in Beacon, Peekskill and Yonkers,” said Anne Kauffman Nolon, MPH, President and CEO of HRHCare. These federal grants were awarded by the Health and Human Services (HHS) Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to improve and expand the delivery of substance abuse services in health centers, with a particular focus on opioid abuse. Nationwide, HHS has announced $94 million in funding to 271 health centers in 45 states and are expected to help grantees hire approximately 800 providers to treat nearly 124,000 new patients. In particular, these grants will help health centers increase the number of patients screened for substance use disorders and connected to treatment, increase the number of patients with access to MAT for opioid use and other substance use disorder treatment, and provide training and educational resources to help health professionals make informed prescribing decisions. In 2014, Maloney worked with the Office of Drug Control Policy to designate Dutchess and Putnam Counties as part of the NY/NJ High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) in order to bring additional local, state and federal law enforcement resources critical to combatting drug trafficking in the Hudson Valley. In 2014, there were more than 118,000 admissions into New York State-certified treatment programs for heroin and prescription opioid abuse – a 28,731 increase over 2013, and a 17.8% increase over 2009. The largest increase in opioid admissions during that time was patients ages 18 to 34.
03.10.2016	Washington — After the Senate passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) by a bipartisan vote of 94-1, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called on Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republican Leadership to bring legislation to the floor to combat opioid addiction. Rep. Maloney is a co-sponsor of the CARA Act, which would create grant programs for local communities facing prescription drug epidemics to expand prevention and education efforts, increase the availability of naloxone, and promote treatment and recovery. “Each day 120 Americans die of a drug overdose – these are mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters – and I hear about these tragedies everywhere I go. Whether it is from my neighbors at the grocery store, picking my daughters up from school, or talking to local law enforcement about the heroin and opioid epidemic that is killing our children and devastating our community,” said Rep. Maloney. “We should have acted yesterday. Instead of dragging their feet, I urge House Leadership to follow in the Senate’s footsteps and bring the CARA Act to the floor without delay.” This legislation would provide funding for prevention, treatment, education and recovery to prevent the abuse of opioids and heroin. Specifically, this federal funding would expand the availability of naloxone for law enforcement and first responders, create alternative community-wide strategies to incarceration including law enforcement programs, and expand veterans treatment programs. It would also increase the amount of disposal sites for unused prescription drugs and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs. Finally, the CARA Act would increase funding and resources to identify and treat incarcerated individuals suffering from addiction and launch an opioid and heroin treatment and interventions program. Prescription drug abuse is a growing public health crisis that affects people of every race, income, and educational level. In 2010 alone, opioids contributed to over 16,000 deaths and heroin-involved overdose deaths nearly doubled between 2011 and 2013. According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) 2014 National Survey on Drug Abuse, 4.3 million people 12 years or older reported currently abusing prescription drugs. Moreover, each year drug abuse and addiction costs over $534 billion, but the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) estimates that we could save $4-$7 in criminal justice costs for every dollar invested in treatment and prevention. As the White House Office of National Drug Policy notes, the rise in prescription drug abuse and heroin abuse are interconnected. According to the NIDA, 1 in 15 people who take non-medical prescription pain relievers will try heroin within 10 years, and prescription opioid abusers are 40 times more likely to abuse heroin in the future. Because of the challenges in obtaining prescription opioids, abusers are highly likely to seek out cheaper alternatives like heroin, which is often available for a fraction of the price.
03.10.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after two teenagers, including one student from Poughkeepsie High School, were shot in the City of Poughkeepsie on Wednesday, March 9th. "My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, their families and loved ones, and their fellow students at Poughkeepsie High School. I am saddened to learn that yet again two more kids, only a couple years older than my daughter, were shot in Poughkeepsie. I urge anyone with more information to immediately contact the Police Department at (845) 451-7577.” "From Newburgh to Poughkeepsie gun violence is tearing our families apart – enough is enough. I applaud the swift actions of the Poughkeepsie City School District and the City of Poughkeepsie Police, and I will continue working with our community leaders to stop these senseless shootings and keep our neighborhoods safe.”
03.09.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Missouri State Senate passed a resolution to amend the constitution to allow for discrimination against LGBT individuals. This legislation, which was filibustered for over 39 hours by Senate Democrats, would provide legal protections for individuals who discriminate against couples in same-sex marriages. “Missouri Senate Republicans can attempt to cloak hatred in religion, but we should call this what it is – bigotry, plain and simple. Discrimination has no place in our communities or our laws, and the attempt to enshrine discrimination in a state constitution is frankly shameful. I applaud the Democratic State Senators who literally stood for basic civil rights for 39 hours and I urge them to continue fighting until this injustice is rectified. We’re standing with you.” Representative Sean Patrick Maloney is the first openly gay member of Congress from New York. After 22 years together, he married his husband Randy Florke in June 2014 in Cold Spring, NY where they live with their three children.
03.04.2016	Newburgh, NY – Following reports of more than 13 swatting incidents at the Middletown Enlarged City School District, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced federal steps to combat “swatting” in schools. Rep. Maloney’s Stop Swatting in Our Schools (SSOS) Act would designate “swatting” as a form of domestic terrorism and create an FBI task force to combat swatting that would coordinate directly with Joint Terrorism Task Forces. “Students, parents and families in Middletown are being terrorized by swatters targeting our kids, so we should call these criminals what they are – domestic terrorists. I want to put the full force of the FBI behind the investigation and identification of these perpetrators and by creating a specialized swatting task force, and officially designating these crimes as acts of domestic terrorism, we can take a huge step forward to stop swatting in our schools,” said Rep. Maloney. “I want to thank Congressman Maloney for standing up with our community to fight this action of domestic terrorism that has been plaguing our local school district,” said Town of Wallkill Supervisor Dan Depew. Since June 2015, Middletown Enlarged City School District has reported at least 13 incidents of “swatting”. In many instances the perpetrators use services designed to mask their phone number, making it difficult to identify the culprit. Earlier this month, Rep. Maloney joined Senators Schumer and Gillibrand to call on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to issue a waiver to the Middletown Enlarged City School District to identify the calling party number used for “swatting”. Earlier this week, the FCC announced they are seeking a public comment period for the petition for the waiver. Instances of “swatting” have become more widespread over the past several years with the FBI estimating approximately 400 such attacks occurring every year in the U.S. While the FBI has been able to provide technical assistance to local law enforcement agencies that are currently under siege from swatting attacks, the creation of a task force focused specifically on investigating and prosecuting individuals engaged in this dangerous activity will help communities who are currently being terrorized by perpetrators.
03.04.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding Neighborhood Office Hours in Wappinger and Southeast. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. In addition, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with a federal government agency, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “I’m here to work for folks in the Hudson Valley, and our office is here to be their advocate and help cut through any bureaucratic red tape of the federal government,” said Rep. Maloney. “Too often people feel like no one is fighting for them, and neighborhood office hours is one of the best ways I can meet with my neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to hear how we can better serve them.” Representative Maloney’s office has handled over 3,000 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $5.5 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, March 5th from 11:30 AM – 12:30 PM WHERE: Wappinger Town Hall at 20 Middlebush Road in Wappingers Falls WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, March 5th from 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM WHERE: Brewster Public Library at 79 Main Street in Brewster
03.03.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the passing of City of Poughkeepsie Councilman Tracy Hermann, who was recently named the Executive Director of the Hudson Valley LGBTQ Community Center. “My thoughts and prayers are with Tracy Hermann’s family, friends and loved ones, including his husband Matt and their daughter Roxy. Tracy was a dedicated public servant and a good friend who brought his infectious personality and tireless work ethic to work every day to make our city a better place. His impact on our community and the voice he lent to those in Poughkeepsie and to the LGBT community in the Hudson Valley will never be forgotten.”
02.29.2016	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that student submissions are now being accepted for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. “From the Hudson River School to the Dia:Beacon, the Hudson Valley is home to innovative artists with work displayed in museums throughout the world. In the last three years, more than 100 artists have participated, and I look forward to continue seeing the creative and original artwork from our talented students in the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Maloney. All submissions of student artwork must be framed and are due by Monday, March 28th. Art work and the Student Information and Release Form should be dropped off to Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh Office located at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY. The competition is open to high school students only, but exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. In order to choose the winning piece of artwork, Rep. Maloney will utilize both social media and the local Hudson Valley art community. Submissions will be posted on Rep. Maloney’s official Facebook fan page for a period of two weeks (April 18th to April 29th) where they will be voted on via the “like” button. In early May, all entries will be presented to a panel of local judges from the 18th district of New York at a reception for all participants, and they will determine a grand prize winner, winners for each medium and a Facebook Fan Favorite. The grand prize winning artwork will be displayed in the Capitol for one year and the winning student plus one guest will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception in June. You can view last year’s art competition entries on Rep. Maloney’s Facebook page. More information for teachers and students is available on our website at https://seanmaloney.house.gov/services/art-competition. For any additional questions, please call the Newburgh office at 845-561-1259.
02.26.2016	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding Neighborhood Office Hours in Poughkeepsie and East Fishkill. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. In addition, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with a federal government agency, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “I’m here to work for folks in the Hudson Valley, and our office is here to be their advocate and help cut through any bureaucratic red tape of the federal government,” said Rep. Maloney. “Too often people feel like no one is fighting for them, and neighborhood office hours is one of the best ways I can meet with my neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to hear how we can better serve them.” Representative Maloney’s office has handled over 3,000 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $5.5 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, February 27th from 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM WHERE: Family Partnership Center at 29 N. Hamilton Street in Poughkeepsie WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, February 27th from 2:30 PM – 3:30 PM WHERE: East Fishkill Town Hall at 330 Route 376 in Hopewell Junction
02.25.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced that his office secured a $1,785,464 federal investment for Regional Economic Community Action Program (RECAP), an Orange County community based organization. This federal investment will support Early Learning and Head Start programs that provide education and development services for low-income children. Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has secured more than $3 million in federal Health and Human Services (HHS) investments for RECAP. “As a father of three kids, I know how costly - and how important - child care can be, which is why I’ve fought for critical investments in our local Head Start programs to ensure hardworking moms and dads have access to quality early childhood education. Investing in early education programs like Head Start is one of the single most important things we can do to open up opportunities for kids and set our children up for a lifetime of success,” said Rep. Maloney. “Education is one of the most successful anti-poverty programs available to families.” said Charles Quinn CEO of RECAP. “We thank Congressman Maloney for his continued support of the important work being done by RECAP for over 50 years. RECAP truly believes that education is a pathway out of poverty and as Orange County’s anti-poverty program, we are proud to provide that pathway to our community’s children and their families.” This federal investment builds upon previous awards that Maloney secured for RECAP. Last year, Rep. Maloney announced an investment of $1,041,093 to Head Start and its RECAP affiliate in Orange County. Together, these awards will continue to provide families across the Hudson Valley with the resources needed to provide education and development services for children and families. Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide comprehensive child development programs for children from birth to age 5, pregnant women, and families. The programs focus on preparing children for school. RECAP is a non-profit organization that has served Orange County residents since 1965. Their mission is to enhance the lives of low-income individuals and to help them become self-sufficient. In addition to providing Head Start services, they support low-income Orange County residents with housing counseling services and assistance, addiction recovery counseling as well as offer emergency food services. Earlier this month, Rep. Maloney partnered with children and staff at RECAP to prepare and distribute valentines through Rep. Maloney’s Valentine’s for Veterans program. Together, they delivered more than 1,000 valentines to Hudson Valley veterans at VA Castle Point in Wappingers Falls. ###
02.24.2016	Newburgh, NY – On Saturday, February 27th at Dutchess Community College, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will host a town hall and benefits clinic for Hudson Valley veterans. The town hall will include panel members from VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System and the Veterans Administration (VA) to answer questions and explain the services available to returning service members, veterans, and their families. Following the veterans town hall, Rep. Maloney will host a benefit’s clinic with representatives from VA Veteran Service’s to assist Hudson Valley veterans with enrolling in VA medical care, filing for VA benefits, and providing the status for pending VA claims and appeals. “Our veterans, service members, and their families have devoted their lives in service to our country, and we must honor the promises made to them by helping them access the support they have earned,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “My office is here to serve those who have served us, so if any veteran feels like their government isn’t listening, I’m here to help – my office has a track record of getting answers and getting results for our veterans.” WHAT: Veteran’s Town Hall WHEN: Saturday, February 27th from 10:00 AM – 11:15 AM WHAT: Veterans’ Administration (VA) Benefits Clinic WHEN: Saturday, February 27th from 11:20AM – 12:30PM Since joining Congress, Rep. Maloney has hosted four veterans resources and jobs fairs with dozens of local veterans organizations in attendance. Rep. Maloney currently has a full-time Veterans Advocate on staff to help veterans with their claims for education, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents’ benefits as well as the correction of military records and medals. So far, Rep. Maloney has helped returned over $2.9 million to folks in veteran’s compensation, and secured 125 service medals including 3 Bronze Star Medals and 3 Purple Hearts. Local organizations currently participating include: Dutchess County Division of Veterans’ Services Rebuilding Together Dutchess County Verizon Wireless Research and Recognition Project Inc. Westcop SSVF Legal Services of the Hudson Valley Therapy Dog Lucy The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor
02.20.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after an innocent 11-year-old girl was shot in Newburgh on Friday, February 19, 2016. "I am saddened to learn that an innocent 11-year-old girl was shot in Newburgh on Friday evening only blocks from my district office. My thoughts and prayers are with her, her family, and her loved ones. "Our children and families in Newburgh should not have to suffer from this indiscriminate violence - working together with local officials and Newburgh police we must stop this gun violence once and for all."
02.19.2016	Poughkeepsie, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and City of Poughkeepsie Mayor Rob Rolison announced that seven new firefighters were recently hired by the City of Poughkeepsie. Earlier this year, Rep. Maloney secured an investment for $959,455 to hire additional firefighters through the Assistance to Firefighters Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. Although their grant application was initially rejected, Rep. Maloney sent a letter of support and worked closely with leaders from the Fire Department, Dutchess County, and officials at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure the Department received this SAFER award. “Our local firefighters like Tim Gunther, who put his life on the line for 21 years and ultimately gave his life to save others, deserve the support they need to continue keeping our community safe,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working together with local officials we were able to secure this critical investment – not only creating jobs, but ensuring the safety of our firefighters and our neighborhoods.” Mayor Rob Rolison said, “This is a great example of cooperation among government. This grant has allowed for increased safety of our residents, visitors and the department. I’d like to thank Congressman Maloney for his efforts and wish these new firefighters the best as they begin their careers with the City of Poughkeepsie.” “The City of Poughkeepsie Fire Department greatly appreciates the assistance of Congressman Maloney in securing these funds to add seven much needed Firefighters. This funding will help better protect the residents of Poughkeepsie, while also making it safer for the Fire Department personnel to perform their jobs,” said Fire Chief Mark Johnson. The SAFER grant secured by Rep. Maloney provides federal funding for seven firefighters for two years. Five firefighters have completed their initial training and started their duties on Monday, February 8th. The additional two firefighters will start at the training academy by the end of February and are anticipated to begin shifts in mid-May. After the hiring of these seven additional firefighters, the Fire Department will finally meet the National Fire Protection Association’s required minimums to ensure a safer environment for all firefighters, and the community they serve. The five new firefighters on the job today include: Chris Bailey, Kevin Jowell, Dante DiFiore, Tim Ryan, and Jonathan Irwin. Last year, Rep. Maloney also secured a similar $625,000 award for the Poughkeepsie Police Department, which will be used to hire at least 5 additional officers. Working together with local, state and federal officials, Rep. Maloney has secured more than $1.5 million for the City of Poughkeepsie to hire at least 12 individuals who will protect and serve as firefighters, police, and first responders. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (SAFER) is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.firegrantsupport.com/ .
02.19.2016	Newburgh, NY — After hosting a telephone town hall with over 7,300 Hudson Valley seniors, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding Neighborhood Office Hours in Port Jervis and Town of Wallkill. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. In addition, Rep. Maloney and his staff are available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with a federal government agency, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “I’m here to work for folks in the Hudson Valley, and our office is here to be their advocate and help cut through any bureaucratic red tape of the federal government,” said Rep. Maloney. “Too often people feel like no one is fighting for them, and neighborhood office hours is one of the best ways I can meet my neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to hear how we can better serve them.” On Thursday, February 18th, Rep. Maloney hosted a telephone town hall on protecting seniors from fraud and scams. Joined by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), IRS Tax Advocate, Veterans Administration, and National Government Services, Rep. Maloney answered questions about Social Security, Medicare and local services available to seniors and veterans, and encouraged constituents to contact his office for help resolving problems with benefits, enrollment, or other issues. To request an invitation by telephone to participate in Rep. Maloney’s next telephone town hall, please call Rep. Maloney’s Washington D.C. office at 202-225-5441 or visit Rep. Maloney’s website to sign up. Representative Maloney’s office has handled over 3,000 individual cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $5.5 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. Media are invited to attend both events. Please RSVP to Caitlin Girouard at 202-225-5441 or caitlin.girouard@mail.house.gov WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, February 20th from 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Farnum House at 21 Ulster Place in Port Jervis, NY 12771 WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney WHEN: Saturday, February 20th from 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM WHERE: Town of Wallkill Town Hall at 99 Tower Drive Building A, Meeting Entrance in Middletown NY 10941
02.14.2016	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia, the longest serving justice on the Supreme Court. “I want to extend my condolences to Justice Scalia’s family, loved ones, and fellow Supreme Court justices. Justice Scalia was a conservative voice on the Supreme Court who had a profound impact on our understanding of the role of the judiciary in our democratic process. Though we agreed on little, I respect his service to the law and to his country. “Importantly, now is not the time for politics. I am deeply disappointed by those demanding that any and all nominees be blocked - we must all remember our oath to uphold the constitution and fulfill our duties without delay.”
02.07.2016	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after reports that radioactive tritium-contaminated water leaked into the groundwater at Indian Point Energy Center in Buchanan. “This latest incident isn't the first time Indian Point has been responsible for radioactive water and unless we get serious about shutting this place down, it's far from the last. Since coming to Congress, I've worked to bring an end to operations at Indian Point because it's too great a risk to the Hudson Valley. “I applaud Governor Cuomo for calling for further investigation and look forward to working together to responsibly end nuclear operations at Indian Point while safeguarding the jobs of those who work there and keeping energy prices low for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley.”
02.01.2016	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Sarah Feinberg today highlighted actions at the federal level to improve grade crossing safety issues affecting the Hudson Valley as well as communities nationwide. The anniversary of the Metro-North crash in Valhalla is Wednesday, February 3, 2016. “One year ago, the Metro-North crash in Valhalla shocked our entire region,” said Lowey. “Most troubling is that the people involved could have been anyone’s family member or loved one, commuting back from work and looking forward to getting home. That’s why I have been working extremely hard at the federal level to enable upgrades and improvements that make rail crossings safer. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I was successful in passing additional resources for states to improve safety and for the federal government to conduct a public awareness campaign to help avoid another unspeakable rail crossing tragedy. Officials at all levels of government will continue working together to ensure our communities are safe and secure.” “Accidents like last year’s horrific Metro-North accident are all too common in New York – that’s why I immediately introduced legislation to invest in positive train control and improve safety at grade crossings. Installing positive train control systems on commuter rail systems like Metro-North is the single most important step we can take to reduce human error and save lives,” said Maloney. “Working together with folks like Congresswoman Lowey, Administrator Feinberg, state, and local officials, we were able to pass critical provisions in the Highway bill that will not only prevent accidents, but will improve safety for the millions of New Yorkers traveling by rail every day.” Lowey’s measures in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus spending bill included: · Lowey’s amendment to increase to $350 million the set-aside for grade crossing improvements in the Highway Safety Improvement Program, giving state highway departments additional resources to make upgrades and safety improvements at dangerous crossings. · Lowey’s provision to set aside $6.5 million for the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) to develop a high-visibility enforcement paid-media campaign that supports highway-rail grade crossing safety. Lowey had called on the federal government shortly following the crash to bolster education and enforcement campaigns. · New railroad safety grants funded at $50 million: $25 million of which available for Positive Train Control (PTC) and $25 million for rail infrastructure. Immediately following the Metro-North accident, Maloney introduced the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which would invest in state and local governments' efforts to build bridges, tunnels, or otherwise relocate roads in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for passengers, motorists, and pedestrians. Lowey is a co-sponsor of this measure. This legislation was passed by the House of Representatives on March 4, 2015, as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA). In addition, Maloney wrote several key measures to improve rail safety, which were included in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, also known as the Highway Transportation bill and signed into law. The Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act, which would require passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify curves with a speed reduction of 20 mph or greater, and take actions to enhance safety, including: modifying existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage, installing alert systems in cabs, and increasing crew communication. This legislation also gives railroads an incentive to implement positive train control (PTC). “Railroad crossing safety is a top priority of mine and Representatives Lowey and Maloney because we know that, working together, we can save lives,” said Administrator Sarah Feinberg, Federal Railroad Administration. “To get to a point where we have zero railroad crossing deaths means everyone has to do their part – the FRA, the railroads, states, law enforcement, and even motorists who drive over the more than 200,000 railroad crossing across the country every day.”
12.03.2015	Washington, DC — With today’s passage of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act in the House, several critical measures authored by Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) are on their way to becoming law. Maloney’s Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act, Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015, Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act of 2015, and Safe Bridges Investment Act were all included in the base text of the bill. Maloney, seen as one of the top Public Private Partnership (P3) experts in Congress, has been fighting for these priorities for the past year which will improve the Hudson Valley’s infrastructure, grow the economy, and enhance the safety of commuters and travelers in New York. This bill reauthorizes highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for the next five years. The measure provides $305 billion in funding for these programs over these five years. It also reauthorizes the critically important Export-Import Bank for four years, which helps American workers and businesses compete in the global economy. “Since day one, I’ve worked across the aisle with local, state, and federal officials to make these critical investments in infrastructure that strengthen our communities, grow our economy, and create jobs. The provisions I authored in this legislation continue that commitment to delivering results for the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “I’m happy that these provisions have been passed because each of them will make life better for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley.” “When I was working in the Governor’s office and in the private sector, I spearheaded initiatives to develop Public-Private Partnerships, because these creative partnerships are a win-win; they allow us to make strategic investments in transportation and infrastructure while lowering costs for tax payers,” said Rep. Maloney. “This bill will unlock badly-needed resources to improve the roads, bridges and rail lines which New Yorkers rely on.” “As we saw earlier this year in the tragic Valhalla Metro-North accident, there are currently hundreds of high-hazard, dangerous rail crossings in New York that need significant improvements,” said Rep. Maloney. “My legislation included in this bill will invest in local communities, giving them the resources they need to upgrade and enhance the safety of rail crossings.” “Our national rail safety standards badly need an update,” said Rep. Maloney. “Crashes and deaths should not be on people’s minds when they get on a train or live by the tracks, yet that is what my neighbors have to live with. My measure will enforce stricter standards on both passenger and freight rail speeds in an effort to reduce tragic accidents that result in loss of life and property.” “My provisions to invest in bridges will unlock billions in targeted federal investments to make critical repairs and improvements to the local bridges families in the Hudson Valley use every single day to get to school and work,” said Rep. Maloney. “These bridges have been forgotten for too long, we must do more to ensure their safety.” Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act Maloney’s breakthrough Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act would allow for faster and more efficient investment in crucial transportation and infrastructure projects around the country. In the past, public-private partnerships, known as P3s, have provided innovative funding solutions for infrastructure projects by linking public investments with private sector resources and efficiencies. In addition to serving on the exclusive Public-Private Partnership Panel for the House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Maloney has a long history fostering government and private sector cooperation. Rep. Maloney’s bill would modernize and improve the coordination between the government and private sector by creating an office within the U.S. Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) to assist modal agencies, states, and other grant recipients on implementing design-bid-build, design-build, and P3 procurement best practices, developing P3 model contracts, and accessing federal loan and loan guarantee programs. By serving as a one-stop shop, this important resource will guarantee states like New York are able to better utilize P3s to improve and invest in their critical infrastructure. Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 The Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 will help states and communities make safety upgrades at dangerous highway-rail grade crossings. Ninety-five percent of deaths involving trains happen at highway-rail crossings. While deaths and accidents have declined steadily nationwide, accidents continue to happen in New York which has 5,304 grade crossings. From 2012-2014, there were 81 accidents, 15 deaths and 23 injuries at grade crossings, according to the Federal Railroad Administration. This bill provides states and communities with more resources to prevent collisions at grade crossings and invest in protective safety devices to prevent future tragedies. By building bridges and tunnels to separate roadways from rail track, by installing improved lights and signals at crossings, and by increasing public awareness of grade crossing dangers, states and communities can take significant steps toward making highway-rail grade crossings safer. Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act This provision pertains to “high-hazard” curves on rail lines, like the curve in the deadly Spuyten Duyvil derailment in 2013 and the Amtrak accident in Philadelphia this May. It would require passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify curves with a speed reduction of 20mph or greater and take actions to enhance safety through modification of existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage at those locations, installation of alerters in cabs, and increasing crew communication. This also gives railroads an incentive to implement positive train control (PTC). It would require that passenger as well as freight rail lines that passenger trains operate on to abide by these standards. Safe Bridges Investment Act Maloney’s Safe Bridges Investment Act would provide counties and municipalities with the funds they desperately need to fix so-called “off-system” bridges. More than a third of New York’s bridges are labeled as either “functionally obsolete,” meaning they cannot handle current traffic demand, or “structurally deficient,” meaning they require significant maintenance to remain in service and will eventually require total rehabilitation. Off-system bridges, bridges owned by counties or municipalities, were initially excluded from the federal National Highway System and thus from receiving federal funding. In 2012, a federal transportation bill called MAP-21 became law, eliminating the Highway Bridge Program, which shifted the program’s funding to the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP). However, funding for the National Highway Performance Program only supports projects on the National Highway System (NHS), which excludes 77% of the country’s bridges. Restricting these dollars for use on a very limited number of bridges is detrimental to the vast majority of our nation’s bridges. Limiting this funding to the projects eligible under the National Highway Performance Program creates a disparity that endangers the safety of citizens in urban and rural communities across the county. The bill would restore funding eligibility to these bridges regardless of their designation. Maloney also co-sponsored an amendment with Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19) that would direct the Department of Transportation to create a comprehensive strategy within the next year to address “structurally deficient” and “functionally obsolete” bridges. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair, with 2,016 graded as structurally deficient and 4,735 graded as functionally obsolete. In the Hudson Valley, there are a total of 1,904 bridges and of these, 206 are structurally deficient bridges and 749 are functionally obsolete bridges. COUNTY NUMBER OF BRIDGES STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BRIDGES FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE BRIDGES Dutchess 333 47 108 Orange 455 66 115 Putnam 104 13 36 Rockland 243 22 105 Westchester 769 58 385 The text of Rep. Maloney’s provisions can be found here. The conference report does include a number of key provisions, including: Boosting commerce and strengthening our economic competitiveness by providing dedicated funding specifically for freight projects, including freight rail, for the first time. Injecting $3.7 billion over five years into bus funding – a 75 percent increase over current levels. This will reduce traffic congestion, by providing more public transportation options. Authorizing $10.2 billion for intercity passenger rail investment, including Amtrak, while providing $199 million in guaranteed funding to help commuter railroads implement Positive Train Control systems. Increasing American manufacturing jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements.
12.03.2015	Washington DC– Today on Capitol Hill, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Citizens for the Extension of the James Zadroga Act, 9/11 advocate John Feal and first responders and survivors joined together with his colleagues in the House and Senate to call on Congress to extend and fully fund the bipartisan James Zadroga 9/11 Health & Compensation Act by year’s end. Authorization for the Zadroga Act, which created the World Trade Center Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund, expired Oct. 1, 2015. The press conference occurred as Congress worked to wrap-up its remaining agenda items for the year. With the end of session approaching, time is running out to renew and fully-fund programs that provide health care and compensation to 9/11 first responders and survivors. Despite widespread bipartisan support including 256 co-sponsors in the House and 66 in the Senate, Congressional leaders have failed to bring the reauthorization bill to a vote. As a result of their inaction, tens of thousands of men and women from all 50 states and 433 of 435 congressional districts have been forced to live in fear that the programs on which their lives depend will be torn away from them and their families. Maloney was joined by U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Charles Schumer (D-NY), and Members of Congress Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Congressman Peter King (R-NY), Chris Smith (R- NJ), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Congressman Chris Collins (R-NY), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Dan Donovan (R-NY), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Jose Serrano (D-NY), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY). “Fourteen years after the September 11th attacks, we remember the selfless men and women who bravely risked their lives in the aftermath of the attack. These first responders embody the unbreakable spirit of New Yorkers and the best of the United States of America. They deserve our best in return, and this is not it. We’ve talked about what needs to happen to get this passed, and how we’re going to finance this bill with ‘pay-fors.’ I’ll tell you what the ‘pay-fors’ are: a kid not getting to play catch with his old man in the back yard. Children growing up without fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters. The families of the victims and the first responders have paid for this bill with their lives. There’s no excuse for not getting this done immediately.” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY). “Over the last several months, we’ve heard a number of kind words from Members of Congress about first responders and there service on and after September 11, 2001, but quite frankly we’ve had enough of the platitudes. It’s time for Congress to do its job,” said Richard Alles, Deputy Chief FDNY, Board Member Citizens for the Extension of the James Zadroga Act. “The Zadroga Act has already expired; the clock is ticking. We are counting on Congress to step-up and renew health care and compensation now.” “What many see as a setback, I see as a set up for our bill to get done next week. This is our story, and we write our own story,” said 9/11 Advocate John Feal. “I am awed by the efforts of so many fire fighters, police officers, and other individual workers and their unions who have been walking the halls of Congress for months securing support from their representatives. I hope Congress hears our voices today… and the voices of a nation that appreciates the service of the many fire fighters, police officers, and workers who were there that terrible day and worked on that pile for months thereafter. We’ve had enough debate. Now is the time to act,” said International Association of Fire Fighters General President Harold Schaitberger. "Thousands of brave men and women never gave it a second thought when they risked their own lives to help in the rescue and recovery after 9/11," said Mario Cilento, President of the New York State AFL-CIO. "Congress recognized their acts of heroism in 2010 by passing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. Now, before they leave for the holidays to enjoy time with their families, they must follow through and renew and fully fund these critical health care and compensation programs. It's the right thing to do and will finally give first responders, survivors, and their families the relief they so desperately need." "On 9/11, first responders rushed to the World Trade Center without thinking twice about what would happen to them. In the months after, they continued to put their lives at risk doing rescue and recovery work at Ground Zero. They were just doing their jobs and they would do it again," said Michael McHale, President of the National Association of Police Organizations. "Congress now has to do its job and show these men and women who have sacrificed so much for their country that their government supports them by fully funding and extending the Zadroga Act." "As a veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, I am disheartened I have to continue to beg Congress to support this simple bill," said Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Chief Policy Officer Matt Miller. "Unfortunately, Congress allowed the act to expire in October 2015, turning their backs to the 9/11 families, first-responders and veterans who answered the call to serve in those dark days and during the last 14 years. Our country has an obligation to support these true American heroes and their families. We urge every single lawmaker on Capitol Hill to put aside their partisan politics aside and support the continuation of the Zadroga Act before the end of 2015." BACKGROUND ON THE 9/11 HEALTH CRISIS As the nation recovered from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, a public health disaster was just beginning to unfold. After 9/11, Americans from all 50 states rushed to Ground Zero to assist with the rescue and recovery effort. Thousands of brave men and women risked their lives to help others, working in extremely hazardous conditions often without proper protective equipment while the Federal Government assured them that the air was safe. Many were injured in the course of this work. Rescue and recovery workers breathed in a toxic stew of chemicals, asbestos, pulverized cement, and other health hazards released into the air when the towers fell, and as the site smoldered for months. The dust cloud that rolled through lower Manhattan after the attacks settled in homes, offices, and buildings – exposing tens of thousands more residents, students area workers to the same toxins. Today, more than 33,000 9/11 responders and survivors are struggling with illnesses or injuries caused by the attacks. They live in every state and 433 out of 435 Congressional districts nationwide. Many are disabled and can no longer work. They are suffering from a host of chronic diseases: asthma, obstructive pulmonary disease, and gastroesophageal reflux disease, to name but a few. Medical research has identified more than 50 types of cancer caused by 9/11 toxins. At least 4,166 people have been diagnosed with cancers caused or made worse by 9/11 – a number that is sure to grow in the years to come. To date over 94 NYPD police officers have reportedly died from their 9/11 injuries since 9/11, more than were killed on 9/11 and more than 110 FDNY firefighters have also died with in the years since, with more deaths expected among all the responders and survivors. Here are videos that let injured 9/11 responders and survivors and those that care for them explain the problem. Renew James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act Nurses ask Washington to save cancer treatment for the 9/11 Heroes they care for! Interview with John Feal on RNN telling the stories of first responders. ###
11.20.2015	Newburgh, NY – Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that he has secured funding from FEMA to keep all 10 of the firefighting jobs in Newburgh that had been in jeopardy. “I’m proud that my office has secured this funding for all 10 of our firefighters,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “The bottom line is that we need to have their back just like these first responders have ours in times of emergency, and we must invest in our first responders on all levels of government. I’m committed to having their back of them as their representative in Congress.”
11.20.2015	Washington, DC — With unaffordable rent driving first-time buyers out of the market, and rent prices increasing with each passing year, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) unveiled new legislation to help first-time home buyers. Currently, high rents are making it difficult if not impossible for many to save for their first home. Despite the fact that 90% of millennials prefer owning to renting, just 36% of Americans under the age of 35 own a home – the lowest level since the Census Bureau started tracking home ownership by age in 1982. Maloney’s legislation would allow renters to break the cycle by using more of their tax-free IRA savings for a down payment on a new home and a more stable financial future. The bill is bipartisan, with Reps. Jim Renacci (R-OH), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), and Mike Coffman (R-CO). “We can’t let home ownership become the next thing to slip out of reach for ordinary, hardworking Americans,” said Rep. Maloney. “But unless we take action, it will. Record high rent prices are shutting first-time home buyers out of the market. This common-sense, bipartisan bill will help reverse the trend by empowering people to save more of their own money to make the move to home-ownership, and enjoy the social and economic benefits that come with it.” “With communities throughout the United States in ‘renters crises,’ I am proud to join Rep. Maloney on a bill that assists first time homebuyers with a down payment,” said Rep. Coffman. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to push this bill through the House.” "We support homeownership because we know homeownership is the foundation of every community. The First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act will offer access to money for renters to transition into a safe, affordable home. Housing counselors can use this new provision within their tool box of assistance, sharing this opportunity during first-time homebuyer education classes and one-on-one consultations,” said Faith Moore, Executive Director of the Orange County Rural Development Advisory Corp. "We strongly support Congressman Maloney's First Time Homeowner Savings Plan Act," said Co-Executive Director, Dianne Chipman, of the Putnam County Housing Corporation. "Putnam County Housing Corporation's Housing Needs Assessment (January 2014) prepared by the Center for Housing Solutions, Pattern for Progress revealed, 'Eighty-eight percent (88%) of owners and renters in Putnam County, regardless of income level, are living in Unaffordable and Severely Cost Burdened Housing. This bill would assist more young individuals and families in realizing the dream of owning a home in their community." “This legislation would be a great benefit to potential homeowners in the Hudson Valley area, where home prices tend to be substantially higher than in other regions of New York State,” said Hudson Gateway Association of Realtors President Drew Kessler. “This will give more first-time homeowners the opportunity to acquire the necessary funds - - without penalties -- to make a viable down payment on a home.” added Hudson Gateway Association of Realtors CEO Richard Haggerty. “Many would be first-time home buyers are getting shut out of the market by rising rents and student loans, which limit a borrower's ability to save for down payment. Buying a home when you are ready - and many are if not for rising hurdle of down payments - means asset-building well into the future, including the ability to ride out market downturns and benefit from long-term asset appreciation. This bill can help young families, and help us reverse the decline of first-time homeownership,” said Doug Ryan, Director of Affordable Homeownership for the Corporation for Enterprise Development. “Rising rents across the country present a significant obstacle in trying to save for a down payment,” said National Association of Realtors President Chris Polychron. “The National Association of Realtors supports this legislation and thanks Representative Maloney for his work to broaden opportunities for families who rent as they reach towards the dream of homeownership.” “Sustainable homeownership has long been seen as the gateway to the middle class for many Americans. Given the barrier of amassing sufficient funds for a down payment and closing costs, many Americans are unable to realize that dream. This proposal would expand access to affordable credit by increasing the number of options that American homebuyers have to assemble the significant resources necessary for what is often the biggest purchase [they will ever make],” wrote William P. Killmer, Senior Vice President of Legislative and Political Affairs at the Mortgage Bankers Association. “Allowing savers greater access to their IRAs for the purchase of a home will allow more households to take advantage of an existing and underutilized vehicle that allows for tax-deferred wealth building. It could encourage young households to start saving at a younger age, because of the increased resource available for a home purchase from an IRA.NHC believes this legislation is one important tool, among many, that promotes affordable homeownership,” wrote Chris Estes, President and CEO of the National Housing Conference. “The bill introduced by Rep. Maloney would be a great benefit to Americans pursuing the dream of home ownership,” said Jules Gaudreau, president of the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors. “Saving for retirement and purchasing a first home can both contribute to the long-term financial security of American families. Penalty-free IRA withdrawals, in amounts high enough to be meaningful in the current market, will make all the difference for many families struggling to come up with down payments.” “The National Association of Home Builders supports your efforts to help address one of the biggest financial hurdles to homeownership for first-time buyers: assembling the down payment. The tax code currently recognizes the benefits of investing in a home and allows first-time buyers to withdraw, without penalty, $10,000 from an individual retirement plan. Since this provision was first enacted nearly 20 years the value has slowly eroded over time. This legislation to increase the limit to $25,000 and index it for inflation would assist more Americans who are saving for a down payment on their first home,” said James W. Tobin III of the National Association of Home Builders. Currently, the United States is in a “renters crisis” with rent is unaffordable in roughly 75% of markets. As this map from the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies shows, nationwide nearly half of all renters are “cost-burdened” and over 1 in 4 are severely cost-burdened. This is also self-perpetuating. Last year, rents increased at twice the rate of inflation. Higher rents mean fewer homeowners and more renters. More renters drive prices even higher, and the problem grows. Despite the fact that 90% of millennials prefer owning to renting, just 35% of Americans under the age of 35 own a home – the lowest level since the Census Bureau started tracking home ownership by age in 1982.[2] Home-ownership often brings with it a range of social and economic benefits that renters miss out on. The Center for American Progress estimates homeowners’ median net worth at $170,000, more than 30 times that of renters. Additionally, homeowners’ savings exceed renters’ savings more than eight to one. Even at similar income levels, homeowners have significantly more assets. [3] This better prepares homeowners for retirement. According to Harvard’s Joint Center on Housing Studies, the median homeowner over 65 could afford nearly 3.5 years of care in a nursing home if needed. The median renter couldn’t afford a month.[4] However, Congress can help: In 1997, Congress allowed first time homebuyers to withdraw up to $10,000 from their IRA - penalty free - for the purchase of a home, providing a tax-advantaged way to save for a down payment. But in the years since, $10,000 just isn’t what it used to be; since then the price of a house in the US has doubled. First Time Homeowners Savings Plan Act, would increase this limit from $10,000 to $25,000, and index the limit to inflation. Evidence suggests that tax-deferred accounts work - a Canadian program that offered tax-free savings for down payments saw home ownership increase by 20% in targeted populations.[5] The bill has been endorsed by the National Association of Realtors, National Association of Home Builders, Mortgage Bankers Association, American Land Title Association, National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors, CFED, and the National Housing Conference. It’s also been endorsed by great Hudson Valley groups like the Orange County Rural Development Advisory Group, the Hudson Gateway Association of Realtors and the Putnam County Housing Corporation. [2] https://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2014/04/30/homeownership-for-millennials-declines-to-historic-lows [3] https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/housing/report/2014/09/10/96706/as-more-households-rent-how-can-we-encourage-them-to-save/ [4] https://www.enterprisecommunity.com/resources/ResourceDetails?ID=0100886#, pg 9 [5] https://www.chba.ca/uploads/policy%20archive/2008/2008-11-21_01.pdf, pg 4
11.19.2015	Washington, DC —Today, U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today released the following statement on the American SAFE Act of 2015: “Our nation has long stood as a beacon of freedom, but after the events of the last few weeks some leaders have given into fear and turned their backs on refugees. These actions are reprehensible, and present a false choice between our values and our security. It’s understandable that people are scared, and Americans have a right to know that the process we use to screen refugees will keep us safe. I have faith in our system, and I don’t believe these refugees -- the overwhelming majority of whom are women, elderly, and children – threaten our communities or national security. So instead of slowing the program or pausing it, the Administration should agree to immediately certify refugees if they pass the current extensive screenings and we should all refocus on actual threats.”
11.18.2015	Carmel, NY - Keeping the tradition alive, U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney has partnered with former State Senator and Chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, Gregory R. Ball to host the 5th Annual Veterans Thanksgiving Dinner on November 21, 2015 at the Putnam Golf Course, with seatings at noon and 2pm. “I'm honored to join my friend Greg in co-hosting this great event for our local veterans,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “As the son of a Navy veteran I know how much our men and women in uniform have sacrificed and contributed to make our community and our country great. I'm proud to be a part of this dinner to say thank you to these heroes.” This year Councilwoman Suzi McDonough is Chairing the great event along with Eugene Parrotta, Chairman of Downstate Chapter of Purple Heart Homes. Over the past four years, former State Senator Ball worked with the community to host an annual Thanksgiving dinner for local veterans. The dinner drew over 800 veterans and hundreds of local volunteers, each year. “God bless this awesome community for delivering another homerun for our heroes. This has become such a special event and is only possible because the entire community steps up to the plate to thank your veterans,” said Senator Greg Ball. “We still need volunteers and donations and ask folks to volunteer the day of and day before. This single event has now spawned similar events throughout the area and with the help of Congressman Maloney, we are flattered and honored to keep this great tradition alive. My hope is to expand this effort nationally.” The community is asked to either donate goods, their time or make a donation on behalf of the event, directly to the Downstate Chapter of Purple Heart Homes. This event could not be made possible without the support of local volunteers and businesses. Helping to keep the tradition alive are dozens of local business, including Lou Cardillo who has donated over $500 and is also partnering with Purple Heart Homes to seek donations and volunteers in order to make the free meal possible for the 5th year in a row. “I am excited to get involved in this event to keep this wonderful tradition going. I can’t think of a better way for our community to come together to thank our veterans that have sacrificed so much for us,” said Lou Cardillo. “While we have assembled a wonderful team to help organize this dinner, this is truly a community event and we will heavily rely on the generosity of community members and our small businesses to make this all possible.” “I always look forward to the Veterans Thanksgiving Dinner each year, as it is truly an incredible event for everyone who attends,” said Vietnam War veteran and Purple Heart recipient Eugene Parrotta. “It’s great that the community is coming together to host the dinner for a fifth time this year. I know that the hundreds of veterans who attend each year are already excited to be invited back for another great Thanksgiving celebration, and Purple Heart Homes thanks Lou Cardillo and his entire team, for their caring and generosity.” Carmel Town Councilwoman Suzi McDonough, who also serves on the board of the Downstate Chapter of Purple Heart Homes, will be helping to organize the event. “Thanksgiving is a time for all of us to be thankful to all of our Veterans and their families that served and are serving this great nation. We will take delight in serving them a delicious meal at the fifth annual Veterans Thanksgiving Dinner,” said Councilwoman Suzi McDonough, Board Member of the New York Downstate Chapter of Purple Heart Homes. In addition to volunteers, Congressman Maloney and Senator Ball are also seeking donations for the Thanksgiving Dinner including: 625 dessert plates, 600 coffee cups, 60 turkey pans, 5 uncooked turkeys (20 lbs or more), turkey gravy, cans of string beans, cans of whole white potatoes, cans of corn, cans of cranberry sauce, salad dressing, premade bags of stuffing, 48 oz cans of chicken broth, pies and décor. The event will take place on Saturday, November 21, 2015 at the Putnam Golf Course. Seating times will be 12:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. If you are interested in volunteering or donating goods, please contact Suzi McDonough at suzi5mcdonough@gmail.com or (914) 403-8463.
11.13.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement the New York Department of State’s assessment of Indian Point Energy Center: "This latest Indian Point assessment has shown yet again that this facility just doesn’t make sense for the community and the surrounding environment. I appreciate the steps that the New York Department of State has taken to ensure the safety of folks living near Indian Point. It’s time we focus our efforts winding down Indian Point and get serious about replacing it with a source of energy production that will create and preserve jobs while reducing the risks to our neighbors and our wildlife.”
11.13.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement following the terror attacks in Paris: “This evening's attacks on Paris were senseless and tragic, and my thoughts and prayers are with everyone who was affected. Violent attacks on innocent civilians are devastating no matter where they occur in the world. We stand in solidarity with the people of France tonight. If you need to check on loved ones in Paris, the State Department recommends calling 1-888-407-4747 or checking travel.state.gov which will be updated as more information comes to light.”
11.13.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement the New York Department of State’s assessment of Indian Point Energy Center: "This latest Indian Point assessment has shown yet again that this facility just doesn’t make sense for the community and the surrounding environment. I appreciate the steps that the New York Department of State has taken to ensure the safety of folks living near Indian Point. It’s time we focus our efforts winding down Indian Point and get serious about replacing it with a source of energy production that will create and preserve jobs while reducing the risks to our neighbors and our wildlife.”
11.11.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on Health Republic and Magnacare: "It's appalling that as soon as the Governor moves mountains to ensure that folks who were relying on Health Republic aren't hurt by the company's sudden collapse, Magnacare makes a bad situation worse. It’s completely unacceptable that hard-working families in good standing would be caught in the middle and denied care because of Health Republic’s mistakes. I will continue to work with the Governor to make sure that people who have played by the rules get the coverage they deserve."
11.10.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the minimum wage raise to $15 for state workers in New York: “I want to thank Governor Cuomo for once again making New York state a national leader. Raising our minimum wage is good for families and good for our state – it will boost our economy, close the pay gap for women, and bring more hardworking families from the Hudson Valley into the middle class. I will continue to fight for a national minimum wage increase to ensure that all working people can earn a living they can sustain a family on.”
11.05.2015	Washington, DC — With today’s passage of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (STRRA), several critical measures authored by Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) are on their way to becoming law. Maloney’s Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act, Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015, and Safe Bridges Investment Act were all included in the base text of the bill, as well a bipartisan amendment Maloney offered with Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19) to address the needs of our nation’s structurally deficient bridges. Maloney, seen as one of the top Public Private Partnership (P3) experts in Congress, has been fighting for these priorities for the past year which will improve the Hudson Valley’s infrastructure, grow the economy, and enhance the safety of commuters and travelers in New York. “Since day one, I’ve worked across the aisle with local, state, and federal officials to make these critical investments in infrastructure that strengthen our communities, grow our economy, and create jobs. The provisions I authored in this legislation continue that commitment to delivering results for the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “I’m happy that these provisions have been passed because each of them will make life better for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley.” “When I was working in the Governor’s office and in the private sector, I spearheaded initiatives to develop Public-Private Partnerships, because these creative partnerships are a win-win; they allow us to make strategic investments in transportation and infrastructure while lowering costs for tax payers,” said Rep. Maloney. “This bill will unlock badly-needed resources to improve the roads, bridges and rail lines which New Yorkers rely on.” “As we saw earlier this year in the tragic Valhalla Metro-North accident, there are currently hundreds of high-hazard, dangerous rail crossings in New York that need significant improvements,” said Rep. Maloney. “My legislation included in this bill will invest in local communities, giving them the resources they need to upgrade and enhance the safety of rail crossings.” “My provisions to invest in bridges will unlock billions in targeted federal investments to make critical repairs and improvements to the local bridges families in the Hudson Valley use every single day to get to school and work,” said Rep. Maloney. “These bridges have been forgotten for too long, we must do more to ensure their safety.” Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act Maloney’s breakthrough Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act would allow for faster and more efficient investment in crucial transportation and infrastructure projects around the country. In the past, public-private partnerships, known as P3s, have provided innovative funding solutions for infrastructure projects by linking public investments with private sector resources and efficiencies. In addition to serving on the exclusive Public-Private Partnership Panel for the House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Maloney has a long history fostering government and private sector cooperation. Rep. Maloney’s bill would modernize and improve the coordination between the government and private sector by creating an office within the U.S. Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) to assist modal agencies, states, and other grant recipients on implementing design-bid-build, design-build, and P3 procurement best practices, developing P3 model contracts, and accessing federal loan and loan guarantee programs. By serving as a one-stop shop, this important resource will guarantee states like New York are able to better utilize P3s to improve and invest in their critical infrastructure. Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 The Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 will help states and communities make safety upgrades at dangerous highway-rail grade crossings. Each year, nearly 270 people are killed at such grade crossings. This bill provides states and communities with more resources to prevent collisions at grade crossings and invest in protective safety devices to prevent future tragedies. By building bridges and tunnels to separate roadways from rail track, by installing improved lights and signals at crossings, and by increasing public awareness of grade crossing dangers, states and communities can take significant steps toward making highway-rail grade crossings safer. Safe Bridges Investment Act Maloney’s Safe Bridges Investment Act would provide counties and municipalities with the funds they desperately need to fix so-called “off-system” bridges. More than a third of New York’s bridges are labeled as either “functionally obsolete,” meaning they cannot handle current traffic demand, or “structurally deficient,” meaning they require significant maintenance to remain in service and will eventually require total rehabilitation. Off-system bridges, bridges owned by counties or municipalities, were initially excluded from the federal National Highway System and thus from receiving federal funding. In 2012, a federal transportation bill called MAP-21 became law, eliminating the Highway Bridge Program, which shifted the program’s funding to the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP). However, funding for the National Highway Performance Program only supports projects on the National Highway System (NHS), which excludes 77% of the country’s bridges. Restricting these dollars for use on a very limited number of bridges is detrimental to the vast majority of our nation’s bridges. Limiting this funding to the projects eligible under the National Highway Performance Program creates a disparity that endangers the safety of citizens in urban and rural communities across the county. The bill would restore funding eligibility to these bridges regardless of their designation. Maloney also co-sponsored an amendment with Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19) that would direct the Department of Transportation to create a comprehensive strategy within the next year to address “structurally deficient” and “functionally obsolete” bridges. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair, with 2,016 graded as structurally deficient and 4,735 graded as functionally obsolete. In the Hudson Valley, there are a total of 1,904 bridges and of these, 206 are structurally deficient bridges and 749 are functionally obsolete bridges. COUNTY NUMBER OF BRIDGES STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BRIDGES FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE BRIDGES Dutchess 333 47 108 Orange 455 66 115 Putnam 104 13 36 Rockland 243 22 105 Westchester 769 58 385 The text of Rep. Maloney’s provisions can be found here.
11.02.2015	Warwick, NY – Marking the third anniversary of the landfall of Superstorm Sandy, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), joined by Warwick Supervisor Mike Sweeton, announced that Brady Road in Warwick has been awarded an investment of $489,438 from FEMA. The Brady Road project will repair three box culverts and allow for this highly-traveled road to fully reopen. Previously, FEMA had authorized the total project cost to be less than $50,000. The Hudson Valley received more than $200 million in recovery funds from back-to-back storms Sandy, Irene, and Lee. “Since taking office, I have worked with communities across the Hudson Valley to secure investments to prepare for future disasters and make our neighbors whole after devastating storms,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “In this case, we teamed up with Supervisor Sweeton to hold FEMA accountable and make sure that the investment in the Town would be for a permanent fix, not a temporary band-aid. I am very happy we were able to deliver results for folks in Warwick.” FEMA had originally authorized the total project cost for Brady Road to be less than $50,000. The initial scope did not plan for the full set of culverts to be replaced, which were damaged during Hurricane Irene and later exacerbated by Tropical Storm Lee and Super Storm Sandy. Supervisor Sweeton requested the scope of work be changed to address the whole picture, and after efforts from Rep. Maloney’s office, FEMA agreed to the complete replacement of the culverts under Brady Road. This “complete fix” addresses all issues with the road rather than a quicker but less permanent or holistic fix FEMA had initially designed.
10.30.2015	Newburgh, NY – After the discovery of a hidden sinkhole beneath Water Street, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today called on Congress to immediately reauthorize the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Congress has not reauthorized funding for FEMA since 2011, thereby holding up the agency from accepting new applications for pre-disaster mitigation for emergencies like the sinkhole in Newburgh. Maloney toured the site and was joined by Orange County Executive Steve Neuhaus and Orange County Acting Deputy Commissioner for Emergency Services Craig Cherry. “This is unacceptable. Just because Congress can’t get its act together doesn’t mean that cities should have to live with sinkholes in their back yards while local businesses owners and neighbors suffer, said Rep. Maloney. “I’m calling for an immediate reauthorization of FEMA, and anyone who opposes it can come to Newburgh and tell me why this situation doesn’t deserve to be fixed quickly. We have this agency specifically for emergencies and the unexpected, and we must make sure that it is there when we need it.” "The County will give any assistance to the City of Newburgh to deal with this issue so that it's rectified in a timely manner. We want to ensure that businesses in the City of Newburgh, especially on the waterfront, remain operational during this process. My administration continues to make it a priority to maintain and improve our roads, bridges and buildings," said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. "Orange County is currently working with local municipalities to develop a countywide Hazard Mitigation Plan. Once those local projects are identified as required by FEMA in an approved plan, we still need federal funding to complete these projects in a fiscal responsible manner," said Deputy Commissioner of Emergency Services Craig Cherry. Currently, FEMA is not accepting any more applications for the Pre-Disaster Mitigation Program, as the FY 2015 window is closed, and the FY 2016 window does not have an opening date due to Congressional inaction. Congress last authorized FEMA in 2011 through FY 2015, which has now ended. The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee reauthorized FEMA in 2013, but it did not pass the House.
10.27.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his support for the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015. Maloney led a letter with nearly 80 House members calling on Speaker Boehner to take action before he relinquished his gavel prevent increases to Medicare Part B premiums that were set to go into effect on January 1st. This new budget agreement will prevent these increases, giving seniors certainty before the change in Congressional leadership and the upcoming holiday season. “I’m relieved that these premium increases were avoided because they would’ve been devastating to folks on a fixed income – for many seniors in the Hudson Valley, cost spikes could have meant the difference between seeing a doctor and paying for groceries or the heating bill for the month,” said Rep. Maloney. “That’s why I led 78 of my colleagues to urge Speaker Boehner to take action, and I’m glad that it was included in the Bipartisan Budget Agreement. “I support this bipartisan agreement because it will result in better economic security for working middle class families by creating jobs and cutting billions in wasteful spending. The agreement will also roll back the damaging effects of the sequester while investing in job training, valuable research, Head Start education, and medical care for our veterans.” “Educators are deeply concerned about the financial burden caused by the projected Medicare Part B premium and deductible increases,” said NEA President Lily Eskelsen García. “NEA applauds Rep. Maloney’s leadership and urges Congress to take swift action by preventing the financial hardship caused by the projected Medicare Part B premium and deductible increases on those who are not currently held-harmless.” The text of Rep. Maloney’s letter is below, and the full letter can be found here: Dear Speaker Boehner, As you know, unless Congress takes action, millions of Americans will see their Medicare Part B premiums skyrocket early next year. We are deeply concerned about the impact of those increases in the Medicare program on our seniors, and urge you to allow Congress to take action immediately to prevent those increases from occurring. It is the clear responsibility of the Republican Majority to act on this issue immediately and bring relief to our nation’s seniors. The nature of this potential rate increase is particularly troubling for the extraordinary impact it would have on beneficiaries. For millions of Americans it could mean a staggering premium increase of more than 50 percent. The impact of such a change would be devastating. Too many seniors already face difficult decisions every month – forced to choose between paying for medication, or groceries, or a heating bill. Congress should be helping those seniors, not burdening them with more impossible decisions. The leadership you and Leader Pelosi displayed on the SGR issue was a model of bipartisan compromise that addressed a problem that was a significant risk to the long-term stability of Medicare. We appreciate that, and America’s seniors’ health care options are more secure as a result. Now, as Congress looks ahead at another deadline that could have a detrimental impact on seniors’ health care, we ask that you work with us to prevent these rate increases from occurring. We stand ready to work with members of both sides of the aisle to ensure that American seniors are not forced to pay the price of Congressional inaction.
10.24.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on Governor Cuomo’s executive order to protect transgender rights: "I commend Governor Cuomo's executive action to include gender identity, transgender status, and gender dysphoria as protected classes in New York. Too many of our neighbors face increased violence and discrimination because of who they are, and I am proud to stand with the Governor to work towards full equality for all New Yorkers."
10.22.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the first death of an American soldier in the fight against ISIS: “I was saddened today to hear that an American soldier was killed this morning during a raid on an Islamic State outpost. We are grateful to this soldier for giving the ultimate sacrifice in service of our nation, and my thoughts and prayers are with the soldier’s family and fellow service members.”
10.22.2015	Washington, DC — Following today’s mark-up of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (STRRA), Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced several of his major legislative measures will be included in the bill. Maloney’s Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act, Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015, and Safe Bridges Investment Act were all included in the base text of the bill. Maloney, seen as one of the top Public Private Partnership (P3) experts in Congress, has been fighting for these priorities for the past year which will improve the Hudson Valley’s infrastructure, grow the economy, and enhance the safety of commuters and travelers in New York. “Since day one, I’ve worked across the aisle with local, state, and federal officials to make these critical investments in infrastructure that strengthen our communities, grow our economy, and create jobs. The provisions I authored in this legislation continue that commitment to delivering results for the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “I’m happy that these provisions have been included because each of them will make life better for my friends and neighbors in the Hudson Valley.” “When I was working in the Governor’s office and in the private sector, I spearheaded initiatives to develop Public-Private Partnerships, because these creative partnerships are a win-win; they allow us to make strategic investments in transportation and infrastructure while lowering costs for tax payers,” said Rep. Maloney. “This bill will unlock badly-needed resources to improve the roads, bridges and rail lines which New Yorkers rely on.” “As we saw earlier this year in the tragic Valhalla Metro-North accident, there are currently hundreds of high-hazard, dangerous rail crossings in New York that need significant improvements,” said Rep. Maloney. “My legislation included in this bill will invest in local communities, giving them the resources they need to upgrade and enhance the safety of rail crossings.” “My provisions to invest in so-called ‘off-system’ bridges will unlock billions in federal investments to make critical repairs and improvements to the local bridges families in the Hudson Valley use every single day to get to school and work,” said Rep. Maloney. “These bridges have been forgotten for too long, we must do more to ensure their safety.” Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act Maloney’s breakthrough Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Investment Act would allow for faster and more efficient investment in crucial transportation and infrastructure projects around the country. In the past, public-private partnerships, known as P3s, have provided innovative funding solutions for infrastructure projects by linking public investments with private sector resources and efficiencies. In addition to serving on the exclusive Public-Private Partnership Panel for the House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Maloney has a long history fostering government and private sector cooperation. Rep. Maloney’s bill would modernize and improve the coordination between the government and private sector by creating an office within the U.S. Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) to assist modal agencies, states, and other grant recipients on implementing design-bid-build, design-build, and P3 procurement best practices, developing P3 model contracts, and accessing federal loan and loan guarantee programs. By serving as a one-stop shop, this important resource will guarantee states like New York are able to better utilize P3s to improve and invest in their critical infrastructure. Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 The Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 will help states and communities make safety upgrades at dangerous highway-rail grade crossings. Each year, nearly 270 people are killed at such grade crossings. This bill provides states and communities with more resources to prevent collisions at grade crossings and invest in protective safety devices to prevent future tragedies. By building bridges and tunnels to separate roadways from rail track, by installing improved lights and signals at crossings, and by increasing public awareness of grade crossing dangers, states and communities can take significant steps toward making highway-rail grade crossings safer. Safe Bridges Investment Act Maloney’s Safe Bridges Investment Act would provide counties and municipalities with the funds they desperately need to fix so-called “off-system” bridges. More than a third of New York’s bridges are labeled as either “functionally obsolete,” meaning they cannot handle current traffic demand, or “structurally deficient,” meaning they require significant maintenance to remain in service and will eventually require total rehabilitation. Off-system bridges, bridges owned by counties or municipalities, were initially excluded from the federal National Highway System and thus from receiving federal funding. In 2012, a federal transportation bill called MAP-21 became law, eliminating the Highway Bridge Program, which shifted the program’s funding to the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP). However, funding for the National Highway Performance Program only supports projects on the National Highway System (NHS), which excludes 77% of the country’s bridges. Restricting these dollars for use on a very limited number of bridges is detrimental to the vast majority of our nation’s bridges. Limiting this funding to the projects eligible under the National Highway Performance Program creates a disparity that endangers the safety of citizens in urban and rural communities across the county. The bill would restore funding eligibility to these bridges regardless of their designation. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair, with 2,016 graded as structurally deficient and 4,735 graded as functionally obsolete. In the Hudson Valley, there are a total of 1,904 bridges and of these, 206 are structurally deficient bridges and 749 are functionally obsolete bridges. COUNTY NUMBER OF BRIDGES STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BRIDGES FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE BRIDGES Dutchess 333 47 108 Orange 455 66 115 Putnam 104 13 36 Rockland 243 22 105 Westchester 769 58 385 The text of Rep. Maloney’s provisions can be found here.
10.20.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the recent violence in Israel: “The recent acts of terror and violence against innocent Israelis are appalling, and it is past time that Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemn these attacks and take steps to stop the bloodshed. Israel is our eternal friend and ally, and the United States will stand with and support the continued security of Israel. My prayers are with the innocent victims of these attacks and their families.”
10.19.2015	Wappingers Falls, NY – Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) hosted a meeting of his Veterans’ Advisory Board where he announced that he had received personal assurances from Veterans Administration Secretary Robert McDonald that Castle Point is not closing or downsizing. After the closure of an out-of-date unit at the VA Castle Point campus sparked concerns among veterans and their families, Representative Maloney spoke with local VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System leadership, and was assured that Castle Point would not be closing. However, later public comments from the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System which appeared in publications including The Times Herald Record and The Poughkeepsie Journal stated that it would be ‘inappropriate’ to speculate about closure, and that Castle Point would ‘continue to look for ways to improve efficiencies.’ The perceived lack of commitment renewed fears in the Hudson Valley that Castle Point would soon close, even prompting one editorial board to write a piece entitled, “Vets need a promise Castle Point will stay”. “As the son of a Navy veteran myself, I know first-hand how worrisome comments like these are to veterans and their families. That is why I demanded a personal assurance from the Veterans Administration that Castle Point will stay open. Castle Point is more than just buildings and beds – it is life-line and a home for brave men and women who served our nation. That’s why I am glad to report once and for all that Castle Point is not closing. Period.” Rep. Maloney’s letter to the Department of Veterans Affairs and their response can be found here. In addition to these official letters, Rep. Maloney spoke directly with VA Secretary Robert McDonald who reiterated the VA’s commitment. Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board is composed of a diverse cross section of the Hudson Valley’s current and retired service members who discuss issues facing the veterans’ community. Maloney was also joined by Interim Associate Director for the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System Bob Lana, Associate Director of Patient Care Services for the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System Maureen Schneider, and Public Affairs Officer for the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System Jason Tudor. Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board is composed of a diverse cross section of the Hudson Valley’s current and retired service members who discuss issues facing the veterans’ community. Maloney was also joined by Interim Associate Director for the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System Bob Lana, Associate Director of Patient Care Services for the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System Maureen Schneider, and Public Affairs Officer for the VA Hudson Valley Healthcare System Jason Tudor.
10.14.2015	Newburgh, NY – Today during a hazmat foam response exercise at the Newburgh Boat Launch, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) urged Congress to provide more resources to first responders who combat fires and spills of any flammable liquids from train accidents. Maloney is a co-sponsor of the RESPONSE Act, which would increase training and resource allocation for first responders who deal with hazardous materials incidents involving railroads. This August, Rep. Maloney secured a new fire boat for the Newburgh Fire Department, and just last night the Newburgh City Council voted unanimously to approve the boat. This vessel will be used to provide a faster and more equipped response to incidents on the Hudson River or along its banks. Maloney was joined by Newburgh Fire Department Chief Michael Vatter. “The firefighters here today risk their lives to protect our neighbors - we can never repay them for their bravery and selflessness, but we can invest in them so they have the resources they need to do their jobs and keep our families safe,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “As the amount of hazardous material traveling through the Hudson Valley by rail grows, we must be even more prepared for potential accidents. That is why I fought to bring a fire boat to Newburgh this summer, and why I am fighting to pass the RESPONSE Act to increase training and resources for first responders who protect our communities from any hazardous material spills.” This August, Rep. Maloney successfully secured this investment through the Department of Homeland Security’s Port Security Program. The Newburgh Fire Department is tasked with protecting and responding to emergencies on the Hudson River between the Tappen Zee Bridge and the Kingston-Rhinecliff Bridge, a distance of 70 linear miles. The Department’s jurisdiction includes five major bridges and multiple riverfront communities. This portion of the Hudson River is also central to moving cargo and is utilized by major commercial shipping companies. As a result, increasing Newburgh Fire Department’s presence on the Hudson River will allow the implementation of additional public safety aspects to the region’s waterborne commerce, protect several homeland security targets, and ensure safe recreational experiences on the waterway. The boat will have fire suppression capabilities including water and foam, which will allow it to address all threats it may face, including residential fires, oil fires, and rail incidents. The boat will also have the capacity to rescue a large amount of victims should there ever be a catastrophic incident on the Hudson. Rep. Maloney has been working with the Newburgh Fire Department since his first months in office in 2013 to secure this vessel, and has pushed FEMA and other agencies to provide adequate funding. His correspondence with FEMA can be found here and here. Maloney is also a co-sponsor of the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety (RESPONSE) Act, which amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to establish the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation Subcommittee of the National Advisory Council. The legislation also directs the Subcommittee to evaluate the following topics and develop recommendations for improving emergency responder training and resource allocation for hazardous materials incidents involving railroads: the quality and application of training for local emergency first responders related to rail hazardous materials incidents, with a particular focus on local emergency responders and small communities near railroads; the effectiveness of funding levels related to training local emergency responders for rail hazardous materials incidents, with a particular focus on local emergency responders and small communities; a strategy for integration of commodity flow studies, mapping, and access platforms for local emergency responders and how to increase the rate of access to the individual responder in existing or emerging communications technology; the need for emergency response plans for rail, similar to existing law related to maritime and stationary facility emergency response plans for hazardous materials; the need for a rail hazardous materials incident database; increasing access to relevant, useful, and timely information for the local emergency responder for training purposes and in the event of a rail hazardous materials incident; and determining the most appropriate agencies and offices for the implementation of the recommendations.
10.08.2015	Washington, DC — Following the collapse of 14 dams in South Carolina after heavy rains, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), joined by representatives from the Association of State Dam Safety Officials and the American Society of Civil Engineers, called for passage of his legislation to fund critical dam repairs and safety upgrades. One high-hazard dam outside of Columbia, SC had last been inspected in 2000, despite being equired to receive inspections every three years according to Army Corps records. The Hudson Valley is home to over 800 dams, and nearly 100 dams known as “high hazard” whose failure would pose a serious risk to the economy and well-being of communities and families. During Hurricane Irene, dams at the Warwick Reservoir, as well as dams in the towns of Deerpark, Blooming Grove and Tuxedo, prompted officials to evacuate neighborhoods in the potential path of flooding. Maloney’s legislation would create a program to provide grant assistance to states to establish routine - yet critically necessary – maintenance plans for dams, and to rehabilitate dams that fail to meet minimum safety standards. “It should not take a tragedy to recognize that our dams urgently need upgrades and regular inspection,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “My bill would invest in regular inspections and critical upgrades to aging dams like the 100 high-hazard dams in the Hudson Valley. We must make sure that families and business owners who live and work nearby are kept safe.” “The flooding event in South Carolina this week and subsequent dam failures highlight the importance of strong state dam safety programs and the assistance that the National Dam Safety Program provides. Proper inspection and timely remediation and repair of deficient dams helps to prevent dam failures and proper emergency preparedness can limit loss of life and property damage when dams are threatened and fail,” said Mark Ogden from the Association of State Dam Safety Officials. “Dams received a ‘D’ grade in the American Society of Civil Engineers’ 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure in part because of the backlog of needs to repair aging high-hazard dams,” said Casey Dinges, senior managing director for public affairs, ASCE. “As the nation’s 84,000 dams continue to age, investment will be crucial to save lives and protect our economy, as dam failure is a risk to public safety and can cost our economy millions of dollars in damages.” Rep. Maloney’s Dam Rehabilitation and Repair Act was introduced in May, and would provide grant assistance to states to make critical safety upgrades and rehabilitate dams that fail to meet minimum safety standards. This program would only focus grant dollars on the most critical publicly-owned dams across the country, with 2/3 of funds going to states with the highest number of high hazard dams. This would be a matching program with 75% federal funds and 25% matched with state or local funds, and the program would provide $800 million in grants over 5 years. States can only use the funds for repairing and rehabilitating publically-owned dams. Rep. Maloney also passed his Dam Safety Act of 2013 as part of in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. This bill renews the federal commitment to addressing the growing safety concerns caused by our nation’s aging dam infrastructure by reauthorizing the National Dam Safety Program (NDSP) The program provides grants to state to improve their dam safety programs through inspection, training, technical assistance, and research. Multiple states have used the grant funds to develop Graphic Information Systems (GIS) to identify the locations of their dams and map the areas below the dams that would flood in the event of a failure, which is useful in developing evacuation planning. States like New York rely on the National Dam Safety Program to support their own dam safety programs. New York State has 8th most high hazard dams in the country with a total of 403, with nearly 100 of those dams in the Hudson Valley. The average age of America’s over 84,000 dam is 52 years old, but in New York State, the average age is 69 years old. At the time that many of these dams were constructed they were low-hazard dams which were protecting relatively undeveloped areas. Since that time America’s population has grown and many of these areas have become increasingly developed. America’s dams continue to age and the number of high-hazard dams, where the loss of life is probable in the event of dam failure, is increasing.
10.01.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and representatives from Planned Parenthood Hudson-Peconic, condemned recent partisan efforts to shut down the federal government in order to defund Planned Parenthood and detailed the disastrous consequences such efforts would have for Hudson Valley women and families. Currently, 2.7 million Americans rely on Planned Parenthood centers for preventive health services each year, and nearly 80 percent of recipients have incomes at or below 150 percent of the poverty line. “Nearly shutting down the government because of an obsession with taking away life-saving services like cancer screenings and family planning counseling is more than just playing politics – it’s reprehensible,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “Defunding Planned Parenthood would be disastrous for women and families across the Hudson Valley and the entire country, so I will continue the fight to keep Planned Parenthood funded and oppose anything that would jeopardize the services that my friends and neighbors rely on.” Reina Schiffrin, President/CEO, Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic, said, “If Planned Parenthood is loses its federal funding, Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic stands to lose up to $12 million annually in combined state and federal funding, which includes Medicaid and Title X funding. This funding is reimbursement for medical services provided including pregnancy testing, contraception, testing for sexually transmitted infections and HIV, and breast and cervical cancer screenings.” Planned Parenthood is one of the nation’s leading organizations working to ensure that Medicaid enrollees have access to quality, affordable contraceptive services. Overall, Planned Parenthood provides family planning counseling and contraceptives to roughly 2.1 million patients each year. According to a poll conducted by Suffolk University, 65 percent of Americans opposed cutting off federal funding for Planned Parenthood. Permanently defunding Planned Parenthood would end up increasing government spending by $130 million over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Below you will find statistics from Planned Parenthood on services provided in the past year in the Hudson Valley, New York, and across the country: Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic (PPHP) Stats Last year alone, PPHP had over 39,000 patient visits in the Lower Hudson Valley. Of those, over 32,000 were family planning visits, which include a variety of services including pap tests, contraception visits and STI testing. Over 2,500 of those were pre-natal visits. Across the entire affiliate, including Suffolk County, PPHP did nearly 6,000 breast exams. If Planned Parenthood were to lose federal funding, PPHP stands to lose up to $12M in combined state and federal funding, which includes Title X and Medicaid reimbursements New York State Stats for 2014 59 Planned Parenthood centers 179,026 total patients treated in 2014 140,774 patients who receive contraception 36,935 patients who receive pap tests 49,099 total breast exams Nationwide Stats for 2014 669 Planned Parenthood Centers 2,653,041 total patients treated 2,065,801 patients who receive contraception 371,116 patients who receive pap tests 451,585 total breast exams
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney’s bipartisan veterans bill. Rep. Maloney’s Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act (HR 2935) will allow veterans to have their medical examinations done by physicians outside the VA system to help process veterans’ disability claims faster. Working across the aisle, Rep. Maloney passed a similar version of this bill in the 113th Congress to help tackle the VA’s then-mounting claims backlog. Prior to his bill being passed in 2013, more than 700,000 veterans across the country were seeking compensation and pension disability benefits with more than 600,000 backlogged claims. The New York regional office alone had over 10,500 veterans waiting on disability claims with the average wait time of 358 days. Thanks in part to Rep. Maloney’s effort, the national backlog has declined dramatically by 87% and New York wait times decreased by 73%. However, the critical program in Rep. Maloney’s bill is set to expire this year. Without timely action from Congress, the progress made in reducing the VA’s backlog will be undone and more New York veterans could face dramatically increased wait times on their disability claims. “As the son of a veteran, I know our military men and women put their lives on the line to defend our country – they shouldn’t be forced to wait months or years for care when they come home. This bipartisan legislation keeps in place an essential tool the VA needs to continue fighting the backlog problem,” said Rep. Maloney. “This program has been a proven success in reducing backlogged claims; allowing it to expire would overburden our VA system and hurt veterans – that’s just reprehensible.” “Congressional extension of the authority for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to contract with private physicians to conduct disability examinations for veteran claimants has shown itself to be an effective way to streamline the disability adjudication process, with accuracy rates comparable to VA examiners. DAV (Disabled American Veterans) supported Mr. Maloney’s leadership last year to extend this authority, originally enacted as a pilot program in 2003, and we again support his effort to continue it until 2016. Over the next year, untold thousands of veterans will benefit from their ability to obtain convenient examinations closer to home, because of Mr. Maloney’s foresight,” said Garry J. Augustine, Executive Director of DAV National Service and Legislative Headquarters. “Representative Maloney’s bill is important to ensure that VA doctors are providing direct care to veterans on a day to day basis by allowing these contract physicians to conduct compensation and pension (C&P) exams. This bill will extend existing authority to allow what is currently working to continue to work for our veterans,” said Raymond C. Kelley, Director of National Legislative Service for the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). “In my role I am constantly running into veterans who have often experienced lengthy waits for services and claims with the VA system. Despite our proximity to New York City, we are still a very rural area with a poor public transportation system, and having the ability to see a physician of their own choosing would be a tremendous and sometimes lifesaving benefit. Kudos to Congressman Maloney for his role in this result,” said Andy Komonchak, Executive Director of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. “The Military Order of the Purple Heart is proud to support Rep. Maloney's efforts to make quality health care more readily accessible to Veterans to include the utilization of civilian physician networks and urges all Members to support HR 2935, the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act," said William Nazario, National Senior Vice Commander for Military Order of the Purple Heart. “Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney's Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act not only demonstrates his commitment to veterans in his district but to veterans across the United States. This act will enable veterans to seek medical professionals of their own choosing and reduce the burden on veterans and their families who otherwise would have to travel long distance to visit medical professionals. Congressman Maloney's act should also expedite the processing time of veterans' VA claims,” said Brigadier General John Hussey, Chair of Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board. “The last thing our disabled veterans need is another barrier that keeps them from getting necessary medical help. The Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act is legislation that removes a potential obstacle by allowing more vets to see private doctors rather than having them wait possibly months to visit a VA doctor. It’s a plan that simply makes sense – and any veteran supports a mission that meets that criteria,” said Christian Farrell, Director of the Orange County Veterans Service Agency. “Any effort to get claims processed faster and help our Veterans in Dutchess County and across the region is an important one. While the VA has done remarkable work cutting down its claims backlog and shortening the time it processes claims, the passage of a bill like this would mean even more help is available for the heroes that have proudly served our nation,” said Nelson Rivera, Director of Dutchess County Veterans' Services. “It is vital that legislation like this be passed to help break up the backlog of Veterans claims. Sadly with the backlog we have Veterans dying before getting their claim adjudicated. This is an onerous state of affairs. We have to treat our Veterans better,” said Karl Rohde, Director of the Putnam County Veterans Service Agency. Since joining Congress in 2013, Rep. Maloney has helped obtain 125 service medals and secured over $2.75 million in guaranteed benefits for deserving Hudson Valley veterans and their family members. Rep. Maloney has a full-time Veterans Advocate on staff to help veterans with their claims for educational, disability, retirement, medical, burial, spousal and dependents' benefits as well as the correction of military records and medals.
09.21.2015	Schumer, Gillibrand, Maloney: These Fed Funds Help Ensure the Police Staffing Necessary to Keep Our Communities Safe U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney today announced that the City of Poughkeepsie will receive $625,000 in federal funding to hire five new police officers. This significant funding comes from the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which helps cities around the country put more cops on the beat. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney said that, given how tight city budgets are, these funds are critical in enabling Poughkeepsie to bolster its police force and keep communities safe, particularly at a time when illegal drug seizure, firearm seizure and other crime is on the rise in the City. Schumer visited the City of Poughkeepsie Police Department in June to push for this funding, and Rep. Maloney also focused attention on the crime issue in the community and weighed in with DOJ for this grant. “At a time of tight budgets for cities like Poughkeepsie, helping to hire and retain police officers is exactly the type of investment that the federal government should be making. This effort will increase safety in the City of Poughkeepsie and ensure that the local police have the additional resources they need to work effectively and prevent crime,” said Senator Schumer, author of the 1994 Crime Bill that created the COPS program. “Furthermore, while the COPS Hiring Program has been a god-send for communities around New York, it does not make sense that the DOJ currently limits a city like Poughkeepsie from applying for the funds it truly needs by placing a hard cap on how much funding each can receive. That is why I have proposed the program also take local crime rates into consideration – and I will continue fighting for this program change so we can enable cities with the highest crime rates to apply for more funding to hire officers beyond the cap.” “This federal funding will enable the Poughkeepsie Police Department to invest in hiring law enforcement to keep neighborhoods safe and secure,” saidSenator Gillibrand. “Protecting our families and communities is a top priority and the new addition of trained police officers will help improve public safety and enable the police department to respond to emergencies. I will continue to push for funding to help get our police officers the resources needed to combat crime more effectively.” “I’ve been fighting for this investment in the city since day one, and after the horrifying acts of violence this summer, my message to the Justice Department was simple: We need to stop the violence and invest in our law enforcement officers who work so hard to keep this city safe,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “The families that live in this city and the police officers who risk their lives every day need our support; we must invest in the tactics that we know reduce crime, strengthen our communities, and make our streets safer, and this investment will do just that.” “This is great news for the City of Poughkeepsie. It means the addition of 5 new police officers and the restoration of important policing programs that will surely impact public safety for the 30,000 residents of this city and the thousands visitors that visit our city on a daily. At a time when significant cuts in funding sources have been realized, it is good to know that our federal representatives have continued to advocate and help secure necessary funding,” said City of Poughkeepsie Mayor John Tkazyik. “The City of Poughkeepsie needed to increase the size of its police force to enhance the safety of our residents and businesses and we delivered. According to city law enforcement officials, new hires will enhance community policing services, provide for directed foot and bicycle patrols, and draw on intelligence-led policing and crime-analysis methods to address violent and non-violent crimes. I am grateful to our federal partners who fought hard to seek this aid so that we can immediately address the effects of this summer’s crime surge and put in place long-term strategies that reduce crime in the Queen City and keep more of our families safe,” said Rob Rolison, Dutchess County Legislature Chairman for the City of Poughkeepsie. Dutchess County Executive Marcus Molinaro said, “This is important funding for the City of Poughkeepsie Police Department and will help ensure the multi-faceted approach to addressing gun-related in the City of Poughkeepsie is successful. Dutchess County has devoted a variety of assets to assist in the City of Poughkeepsie, including assistance with patrols as well the deployment of the our Mobile Crisis Intervention Team in strategic areas. We are grateful to Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Congressman Maloney for their advocacy and commitment to getting the funding for these additional City officers.” Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney explained that, despite an increase in illegal drug seizure, firearm seizure and other crime, the City of Poughkeepsie’s police force has declined in recent years to a little under 96 sworn officers as of just last year, as well as 34 civilians, which includes 13 dispatchers. The Senators and Congressman said that with crime like illegal drug seizure and firearm seizure increasing, it is critical the City of Poughkeepsie will now be able to hire the additional officers it needs turn the tide of crime in the area. With this $625,000 in federal funds, the City of Poughkeepsie create five new officer positions. Putting these cops on the street will increase public safety in the city and reduce the strain that a short-staffed department would have on the rest of the police force. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney all separately wrote letters in support of Poughkeepsie’s application. In addition, Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney vowed to continue pushing for changes to the DOJ’s COPS Hiring Program (CHP) that would enable smaller cities with higher crime rates, like Poughkeepsie, to apply for additional police officers beyond the current cap. Schumer previously pushed Attorney General Loretta Lynch to consider this change to the program. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney explained the program currently sets a limit on how much funding a city can apply for based on the current size of the police force, rather than the amount of crime in an area. Specifically, the program currently has a hard cap that only allows a city like Poughkeepsie to apply for funding to hire the equivalent of 5 percent of its police force – which in Poughkeepsie’s case is approximately five officers. Schumer, Gillibrand and Maloney said that while these five officers are a step in the right direction, this arbitrary limit unfairly restricts a small city like Poughkeepsie, which has a dwindling police force and high crime rate, from applying for the additional officers it may need. Schumer explained that the COPS Hiring Program (CHP) plays a pivotal role in providing the funds Poughkeepsie, and many cities like it, need to hire new police officers. In total, the City of Poughkeepsie police force has 96 sworn officers, which is nowhere near the optimal number for the city since most are often dealing with such high levels of firearm- and drug-seizure crimes. These five officers will immensely help the city increase its patrolling efforts. Now that the City’s application has been approved, it will the funding it needs to keep these five officers on the beat for at least three years. The City, however, has indicated that in a perfect world, it would apply for funding to bring on 10-12 new cops, which is one of the main reasons the Senators and Congressman are continuing to push for change in the funding limits of the CHP program. The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) is a component of the US Department of Justice. The COPS Office awards grants to state and local law enforcement agencies to hire and train community policing professionals, acquire cutting-edge crime-fighting technologies, and develop and test innovative policing strategies. This program awards grants to state and local law enforcement agencies to hire and train police officers, acquire and deploy new, crime-fighting technologies. The program provides training and technical assistance for all levels of law enforcement. The COPS funding is distributed through a wide range of programs, including grants and cooperative agreements. A copy of Senator Schumer’s letters to Attorney General Loretta Lynch – regarding the DOJ program changes and his support of the CHP funding for Poughkeepsie – are both included below: Dear Attorney General Lynch, I want to thank you for your ongoing support of local law enforcement to ensure our cities and towns are able to provide community oriented policing. Within that effort, the COPS Hiring Program (CHP) is vital to empowering local communities to combat violent crime and ensure that our local communities remain safe. At this time, I am deeply concerned that regulatory limits placed on the CHP program are impeding local enforcement agencies from addressing the issue of rising violent crime in their communities. Since 2008, the CHP has imposed caps on the number of officer positions that could be awarded to individual agencies. Because of this arbitrary limit, CHP fund allotments are weighed by the size of the police force as opposed to the city’s amount of crime. I’m asking you to lift this restriction and take into consideration local crime rates, and particularly violent crime rates, that often prevent even the largest police force from efficiently protecting their residents. For the communities experiencing high crime rates, the current limit is simply not enough to address increasing violent crime facing their city. Every officer added to the streets makes a substantial difference to the amount of crime faced by the community. In my home state of New York, the City of Poughkeepsie continues to struggle with increasing violent crime rates with two fatal shootings in the past few days alone. Despite this increase, the local police force has declined to just under 96 officers. The uptick of violent acts throughout towns in Dutchess County and across NYC points to the increased need for additional police officers. In fact, according to the New York State Division of Criminal Justice System, firearm-related seizures, opioid abuse, and other violent crimes are all on the rise. Since 2012, the City’s firearm-related crimes have increased nearly 15%. Failing to provide local law enforcement with the flexibility to obtain the officers they need would do a disservice to their mission and to the community. In order to ensure that police in our most needy cities are able to protect their local neighborhoods, I ask you to strongly consider reassessing the caps you place on officer positions so that they may address the growing crime needs in their communities. Thank you for your continued support of local law enforcement and I look forward to working with you on this important issue.‎ Sincerely, Charles E. Schumer United States Senator Dear Attorney General Lynch, I am pleased to write in support of the application submitted by the City of Poughkeepsie Police Department for funding through DOJ’s COPS Hiring Program (CHP). Such funding will enable the Poughkeepsie Police Department to hire five additional officers. The City of Poughkeepsie Police Department consists of more than 96 sworn members and approximately 34 civilians, which include 13 dispatchers. The department is divided into specific sections: The Command Administration, Support Services/Training and Development, Evidence, Detectives and Juvenile Divisions, Patrol Divisions, Neighborhood Recovery Unit, Crime Analysis, Main Street and Traffic, Parking Enforcement, Records Sections, and Animal Control. It is part of the Dutchess County Drug Task Force. The department also has a K-9 Officer and an Emergency Services Unit. With funding, the Poughkeepsie Police Department will hire five additional officers to restore an updated version of community policing and provide for directed patrols, including on foot and on bicycles, with a focus on violent crime and gun crime. New hires will be directed to enhanced community policing services, with a focus on engaging the community in problem solving. Preference will be given to post-9/11 veterans. Hiring additional officers will ultimately make the streets of Poughkeepsie safer, and allow residents to perceive that they are safe within the community. I applaud the City of Poughkeepsie Police Department for its foresight and sincerely hope the application meets with your approval. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Charles E. Schumer United States Senator
09.11.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “After careful consideration, I have decided to support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. I have studied the agreement; consulted with hundreds of my constituents; attended multiple classified and unclassified briefings; met with regional experts; questioned senior Administration, military, and intelligence officials; and engaged in direct conversations with the President of the United States. I have concluded that the JCPOA is an imperfect but workable framework that preserves the United States’ ability to prevent, by any means necessary, Iran’s acquisition of a nuclear weapon. The agreement, however, cannot succeed without strong and unwavering American leadership on implementation and compliance. Our message to Iran must be crystal clear: if you violate this agreement or otherwise seek a nuclear weapon, the United States -- with or without our allies -- will use overwhelming military force to stop you and devastate your regime. “I have heard from many friends and neighbors who sincerely believe that this deal could be detrimental not only for the United States but for Israel, and I take those concerns very seriously. Israel is our eternal friend and ally. As my record demonstrates, I am committed to ensuring the security of Israel, and would not support this agreement if I thought it would do otherwise. “American involvement in protracted Middle East conflicts has taught us that war should only be undertaken as a last resort. We have a moral responsibility to exhaust all other options before using force. We owe that to the thousands of young Americans who lost their lives or were grievously injured in Iraq and elsewhere, and to those young Americans from the Hudson Valley and across the nation who could yet be called to serve in a future war in Iran. We must both work for peace and remain ready to use all necessary military power to protect our country should the need arise. I believe this agreement allows us to do both.”
09.11.2015	Newburgh, NY – Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement marking the anniversary of the September 11th attacks, and called for the reauthorization of James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. Rep. Maloney will also join local officials at memorial ceremonies later today in Cornwall and at Cornerstone Park in Carmel. “As our nation stops to remember the tragic events of September 11th, we are reminded of the unbreakable spirit of New Yorkers and the United States of America. On the fourteenth anniversary of these horrific attacks, we pray for the victims and their families and honor the brave first responders who heroically charged into harm’s way. These selfless men and women risked their lives in the aftermath of the attack, and deserve the benefits they are owed. We must reauthorize the James Zadroga 9/11 Act to ensure that no hero is forgotten,” said Rep. Maloney. Rep. Maloney is co-sponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which will reauthorize the Victim Compensation Fund for the next 25 years. Set to expire in 2016, this legislation will provide compensation to 9/11 responders and survivors and their families for physical injuries and potential life-threatening health effects due to the toxins released at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.
09.04.2015	Newburgh, NY – Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that his office will be raffling off 50 tickets to watch Pope Francis' address to Congress at 10am on Thursday, September 24th. These tickets are for lawn seats outside the Capitol, and Rep. Maloney will host a meet and greet for constituents after the speech concludes. To enter, please email ticket.raffle@mail.house.gov the following information: First and Last Name of Primary Contact Email Address Phone Number Hometown # of Tickets Requested The deadline to submit is 11:59pm on Sunday, September 13th. The office will contact the winners on Monday, September 14th via email.
08.04.2015	Montgomery, NY — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced an investment of $5,023,500 from the Department of Transportation for the Orange County Airport. The funding will be used for the environmental mitigation of runway construction, as well as runway construction for Taxiway A’s northern section. “The Orange County Airport is a key economic engine for the county and for the Hudson Valley. This investment will create jobs, boost the local economy, and provide a vital investment to one of our busiest non-commercial airports, while ensuring the safety of our neighbors, businesses and visitors,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud of our joint efforts with Orange County as we continue working to draw more businesses to the Hudson Valley.” “This is a very important project for the future the Orange County Airport and the aviation community. This is a long-awaited project, so we are very excited to see this come to fruition and that our runway safety areas will meet all FAA requirements,” said Edward Magryta, the Orange County Airport Director of Aviation. “As the Federal government continues to invest in Orange County Airport, it will continue to grow. We are seeing more traffic and interest in the airport, which is exciting. Orange County Airport is very important to the economic development of our County and also serves as a recreation attraction. This grant will certainly help raise the profile of Orange County Airport and benefit our residents,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. More information on the investment can be found here. Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.31.2015	Poughkeepsie, NY — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced an investment of $504,000 from the Department of Transportation for the Dutchess County Airport. The funding will be used for the replacement of the existing airfield electrical vault, which has reached the end of its useful life. “The Dutchess County Airport is one of most important economic engines in the Hudson Valley. This investment will create jobs, boost the local economy, and strengthen one of the busiest non-commercial airports in the state, while ensuring the safety of our neighbors, businesses and visitors,” said Rep. Maloney. “I’m proud of our joint efforts with Dutchess County as we continue working to draw more businesses to the Hudson Valley.” “The Dutchess County Airport is an important economic asset within the County, with an annual economic impact of over $44 million for our local economy. The FAA grants are vital to keeping the airport running safely and effectively for the more than 73,000 takeoffs and landings that place there each year. As we seek to expand the use of the airport with great events like the recent Balloon Festival and the upcoming Wings of Freedom tour, we are grateful to Senator Schumer and Congressman Maloney for their advocacy and work in securing these important funds for Dutchess County and assisting us in our efforts to attract more use, greater private investment and overall impact of the airport,” said Dutchess County Executive Molinaro. Last year, Rep. Maloney secured an investment of over $1 million for Dutchess County Airport to upgrade runways and lighting. In 2013, Maloney helped reverse the closure of Dutchess County Airport which was threatened by sequestration. More information on the investment can be found here. Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.31.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney released the following statement regarding the hate crimes that took place during the Jerusalem Pride Parade: “I am deeply saddened by the terrible hate crime that occurred at a Pride Parade in Jerusalem yesterday. Violent acts of any kind, in any country against peaceful members of the LGBT community are intolerable. I am pleased that Prime Minister Netanyahu and other officials and religious leaders have condemned this act, and will bring this assailant to justice.” Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.30.2015	Newburgh, NY — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced a major investment of $248,700 for a fire and rescue boat for the Newburgh Fire Department. Maloney was joined by members of the fire department, including Chief Michael Vatter, as well as Mayor Judy Kennedy of Newburgh, Office of Emergency Management Commissioner Craig Cherry, and members of the Newburgh City Council. “The Hudson River is the lifeblood of our region, and with this investment, the river - and the folks who live, work, and play on the Hudson – just got much safer,” said Rep. Maloney. “Our Newburgh firefighters risk their lives every day to protect our neighbors and our communities – this investment gives our first responders the support they need to continue keeping Hudson Valley residents, visitors, small businesses, and water ways safe.” “The members of the of City of Newburgh Fire Department are both thrilled and thankful for the Port Security Grant that will make the purchase of this new fireboat possible,” said Newburgh Fire Chief Michael Vatter. “It is a craft purposely designed and built to for waterborne fire and rescue operations and will replace the 20 year-old modified pleasure boat that we have been using.” “With this new fireboat, Newburgh’s emergency responders will be able to reach life-threatening situations on the river faster and respond to problems easier. This means saving a life that might otherwise be lost. Thank you Congressman Maloney,” said Mayor of Newburgh Judy Kennedy. The investment was secured through the Department of Homeland Security’s Port Security Program. The Newburgh Fire Department is tasked with protecting and responding to emergencies on the Hudson River between the Tappen Zee Bridge and the Kingston-Rhinecliff Bridge, a distance of 70 linear miles. The Department’s jurisdiction includes five major bridges and multiple riverfront communities. This portion of the Hudson River is also central to moving cargo and is utilized by major commercial shipping companies. As a result, increasing Newburgh Fire Department’s presence on the Hudson River will allow the implementation of additional public safety aspects to the region’s waterborne commerce, protect several homeland security targets, and ensure safe recreational experiences on the waterway. The boat will have fire suppression capabilities including water and foam, that will allow it to address all threats it may face, including residential fires, oil fires, and rail incidents. The boat will also have the capacity to rescue a large amount of victims should there ever be a catastrophic incident on the Hudson. Rep. Maloney has been working with the Newburgh Fire Department since his first months in office in 2013 to secure this vessel, and has pushed FEMA and other agencies to provide adequate funding. His correspondence with FEMA can be found here and here. Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.30.2015	Poughkeepsie, NY — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced a major investment of $959,455 for the Poughkeepsie Fire Department to hire new full-time firefighters. This investment, secured through the Department of Homeland Security, will allow the department to hire seven new firefighters. Maloney was joined by members of the fire department, including Chief Mark Johnson, as well as Dutchess County Executive Mark Molinaro and Mayor John Tkazyik of the City of Poughkeepsie. “Our Poughkeepsie firefighters risk their lives every day to protect our neighbors – this investment for Poughkeepsie not only creates new, good-paying jobs, but it gives our firefighters the support they need to continue keeping our community safe,” said Rep. Maloney. “Working together with a bipartisan team of local leaders we were able to deliver this investment to strengthen and improve staffing at the Poughkeepsie Fire Department, and help make the city and surrounding communities in Dutchess County safer.” “I’d like to thank Congressman Maloney and his staff for assisting the City of Poughkeepsie in securing this most needed SAFER grant. This grant will allow us to hire seven new firefighters which will increase our staffing levels to a safe and efficient status for the city residents and its firefighters,” said City of Poughkeepsie Fire Chief Mark Johnson. “The safety of our Dutchess County residents is of the utmost importance, and these firefighters will bring much-needed manpower to the City of Poughkeepsie’s department,” said Dutchess County Executive Marc Molinaro. “The additional firefighters, who will be hired thanks to this grant, will bring the City’s department back closer toward its previous staffing level and provide the City’s residents with added protection. Dutchess County and I are grateful for the support Rep. Maloney has provided us by securing this grant – just the latest example of his bipartisan efforts to keep the County and the Hudson Valley safe. We appreciate his efforts and look forward to working with him again to enhance the County we both cherish.” While the City of Poughkeepsie’s initial applications for SAFER investments were rejected, the office of Rep. Maloney worked closely with leaders from the Fire Department, the City and County, and officials at the Department of Homeland Security to strengthen the most recent application and worked throughout the process to ensure success. The Poughkeepsie Fire Department also took advantage of an information session and grant workshop hosted by Rep. Maloney’s office that helps local governments strengthen funding applications and make personal connections with federal granting agencies. A letter the Representative wrote to FEMA advocating for the investment can be found here. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (SAFER) is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at: LINK. Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.30.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Richard Hanna (NY-22) unveiled their bipartisan legislation to upgrade emergency medical supplies for children on airplanes. Currently, airplanes are not required to carry child-sized doses of emergency medicine, such as Epi-Pens, onboard passenger aircrafts. The Airplane Kids in Transit Safety (KiTS) Act would address this gap in safety rules. Maloney and Hanna were joined by Dr. Brian Moore, a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics’ Committee on Pediatric Emergency Medicine, which has endorsed the legislation. “As a father, I believe that every family deserves to have the peace of mind that comes with knowing their airplane is properly equipped for an emergency,” said Rep. Maloney. “It is unacceptable that our children’s safety is not accounted for on airplanes today, and our proposal will remedy this situation by requiring the FAA to enforce emergency medical requirements for our kids.” “Emergency Medical Kits on commercial airlines should include appropriate medication and devices to treat children,” Rep. Hanna said. “Children are among the most vulnerable in emergency situations. In the event of an emergency during a commercial flight, we should ensure that we are well equipped to get our smallest travelers the help they need as quickly as possible.” “In emergency situations when every second counts, it is essential that our nation’s commercial airplanes are safe for children. Emergency medical kits onboard airplanes need to be equipped to treat children during potentially fatal emergencies. The Airplane KITS Act is an important step forward for children’s health and safety. This bill requires the Federal Aviation Administration to update the contents of the emergency medical kits to include appropriate medications and equipment to better meet children’s unique needs. The American Academy of Pediatrics applauds Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney and Richard Hanna for their leadership advancing this important legislation,” said Sandra G. Hassink, MD, FAAP, President, American Academy of Pediatrics. With more Americans travelling by air than ever before, adult travelers can generally feel safe knowing that, in the case of a medical emergency, a well-trained flight crew will have the medical equipment necessary to treat them. But shockingly, the Emergency Medical Kits (EMKs) required on commercial flights are woefully inadequate for treating the most vulnerable passengers: children. Of specific concern is the lack of epinephrine auto-injectors, like Epi-Pens, to treat children who are suffering from an anaphylactic allergic reaction. Given the vulnerability of infants, children and adolescents during medical emergencies, it is imperative that the FAA update their outdated regulations on the contents of EMKs. The Airplane KITS Act would specifically require the FAA, within 1 year of enactment, to initiate a rulemaking to update the requirements for EMKs to ensure that they contain appropriate medication and equipment to meet the emergency needs of children, including Epi-Pens. According to the American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology, as many as 15 million people suffer from a food allergy, and allergies rank 5th among other leading chronic diseases in the U.S. Every 3 minutes a food allergy reaction sends someone to the ER, and roughly 150 Americans – mostly children – die every year from food-induced anaphylaxis. Worldwide, the sensitization rates to one or more common allergens among school children are approaching 40-50%. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 29, 2015 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.24.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the introduction of his Safe Bridges Investment Act, which would provide counties and municipalities the funds they desperately need to fix so-called “off-system” bridges. More than a third of New York’s bridges are labeled as either “functionally obsolete,” meaning they cannot handle current traffic demand, or “structurally deficient,” meaning they require significant maintenance to remain in service and will eventually require total rehabilitation. “Since day one, I’ve worked across the aisle with local, state and federal officials to make critical investments in infrastructure that grow our economy and create jobs, and this legislation is a continuation of that commitment to delivering results for towns like New Windsor and Newburgh,” said Rep. Maloney. “My bill will allow municipalities to prioritize deficient bridges so they do not continue to be a risk to the families that use them every day to get to school and work.” Off-system bridges, bridges owned by counties or municipalities, were initially excluded from the federal National Highway System and thus from receiving federal funding. In 2012, a federal transportation bill called MAP-21 became law, eliminating the Highway Bridge Program, which shifted the program’s funding to the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP). However, funding for the National Highway Performance Program only supports projects on the National Highway System (NHS), which excludes 77% of the country’s bridges. Restricting these dollars for use on a very limited number of bridges is detrimental to the vast majority of our nation’s bridges. Limiting this funding to the projects eligible under the National Highway Performance Program creates a disparity that endangers the safety of citizens in urban and rural communities across the county. The bill would restore funding eligibility to these bridges regardless of their designation. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair, with 2,016 graded as structurally deficient and 4,735 graded as functionally obsolete. These designations mean that they can no longer handle the traffic for which they were designed, or are in need of extensive rehabilitation. In the Hudson Valley, there are a total of 1,904 bridges and of these, 206 are structurally deficient bridges and 749 are functionally obsolete bridges. COUNTY NUMBER OF BRIDGES STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BRIDGES FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE BRIDGES Dutchess 333 47 108 Orange 455 66 115 Putnam 104 13 36 Rockland 243 22 105 Westchester 769 58 385 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.24.2015	Newburgh, NY —Representative Sean Patrick Maloney will continue his “Speak with Sean” series by holding Neighborhood Office Hours in Garrison, Beacon, and Poughkeepsie THIS WEEKEND. Neighborhood Office Hours are an opportunity for constituents to share any questions, comments and concerns one-on-one with Rep. Maloney. In addition, Rep. Maloney’s staff will be available to assist with any problems constituents from the Hudson Valley may be having with a federal government agency, such as the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “I’m here to work for folks in the Hudson Valley, and our office is here to be their advocate and help cut through any bureaucratic red tape of the federal government,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “Too often people feel like no one is fighting for them, so I'm looking forward to meeting with my neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley to hear how we can better serve them.” Representative Maloney’s office has handled more than 2,700 cases, and so far, Rep. Maloney has helped return more than $4.6 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHEN: Saturday, July 25th from noon-1pm WHERE: Garrison Café 1135 NY-9D Garrison, NY 10524 WHEN: Saturday, July 25th from 2-3pm WHERE: Howland Cultural Center 477 Main Street Beacon, NY 12508 WHEN: Sunday, July 26th from 1:30-2:30pm WHERE: Poughkeepsie Senior Center 14 Abe's Way Poughkeepsie, NY 12601 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.22.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a $3,592,530 investment by the Department of Housing and Urban Development for Orange County for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) and HOME. Both of these programs promote economic growth through housing assistance and expanding local economic projects. “These critical investments in our community will help ensure a brighter future for all of us,” said Rep. Maloney. “CDBG and HOME allow Orange County to complete essential economic development projects that will create good paying jobs and affordable housing to boost the economy in the Hudson Valley.” “We are appreciative that Congressman Maloney has helped obtain these much needed funds. I certainly realize how important they are when it comes to supporting ongoing efforts for community development across Orange County. I look forward to working with Congressman Maloney to serve areas throughout the County that can benefit from this funding,” said Orange County Executive Steven M. Neuhaus. The CDBG program provides annual grants to states and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low-and moderate-income persons. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing in low- and very low-income families by providing grants to states and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 20, 2015 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.22.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on yesterday’s shooting in Chattanooga: “I was saddened to hear of the tragic shooting in Chattanooga yesterday that took the lives of four of our country’s finest service members. My thoughts and prayers are with their friends and families, as well as the entire Marine Corps community as they mourn this heartbreaking loss.” FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 17, 2015 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.22.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a $242,042 investment for Marist College and a $240,000 investment in Dutchess County Community College to help students with special challenges that are at high risk of dropping out of school. The funds, secured through the Department of Education’s Student Support Service Program, will provide opportunities for academic development, assist students with basic college requirements, and motivate students toward the successful completion of their postsecondary education. “These critical investments in our community will help ensure a brighter future for all of us,” said Rep. Maloney. “College can be tough for anyone, but kids facing difficult financial, cultural, or developmental circumstances are most likely to drop out and not get a degree – by investing in a support structure, we can ensure that these folks can fulfill their true potential and make our communities stronger.” According to the Pell Institute, Less than 11% of low-income first generation students attain a bachelor’s degree within 6-years of enrollment, compared to 54% of students who are not first generation. The Student Support Services Program aims to provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation or disabled college students to increase students’ retention and graduation rates, facilitate their transfer from two-year to four-year colleges, and foster an institutional climate supportive of the success of low-income and first generation college students and individuals with disabilities. More information on the grant program can be found here: LINK. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 15, 2015 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.22.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the tragic car accident in Goshen: “As a father of three children, I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of these two young men involved in today’s crash in Warwick. These teenagers were bright members of the community with promising futures. My thoughts and prayers are with the young people still in the hospital, their families of all those affected, and the entire Goshen community.” FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 15, 2015 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.22.2015	Poughkeepsie, NY — Today, Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Chris Gibson (NY-18), joined by local health professionals, highlighted their legislation to fight Lyme disease at the Dutchess County Department of Health. The Tick-Borne Disease Research Transparency and Accountability Act, legislation authored by Representative Gibson and originally co-sponsored by Representative Maloney to fight Lyme disease and related illnesses, was adopted as part of the broader 21st Century Cures Act. Last week, the 21st Century Cures Act passed the House of Representatives 344-77. Maloney and Gibson were joined by Dutchess County Executive Marc Molinaro and Dutchess County Commissioner of Health Kari Reiber, MD to discuss the impact their legislation on the fight against Lyme disease and other tick-borne illnesses. “Folks in the Hudson Valley know the debilitating impacts of Lyme disease all too well; this legislation will make the investments needed to help them in their fight,” said Representative Maloney. “Passing our legislation as a part of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act is a huge step towards that goal, and I’m grateful to work with Rep. Gibson to get this bill across the finish line so that we can move closer to finding a cure for tick-borne illnesses once and for all.” “The bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act will help save and improve the lives of countless people afflicted with medical conditions that lack effective treatments, including Lyme disease and other tick-borne illnesses,” said Congressman Gibson. “Our provisions will bring relief to a long-suffering population, especially our chronic Lyme sufferers, and I am grateful to Congressman Maloney for his continued support of this constituent-driven legislation.” The provisions on tick-borne illnesses in the 21st Century Cures Act create an interagency working group consisting of federal agencies and non-federal partners, including experienced Lyme physicians and patient advocates with a broad spectrum of scientific viewpoints. The working group is tasked with ensuring coordination among federal agencies like the NIH and CDC to maximize research priorities. The bill requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to consult with the working group to submit a strategic plan to Congress within three years that includes benchmarks to measure progress. The plan must include a proposal for improving outcomes of Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases, including progress related to chronic or persistent symptoms, infections, and co-infections. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 13, 2015 Alex Miller 202-225-5441
07.15.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement on the Iran nuclear agreement: “I look forward to carefully reviewing the Iran agreement in the days ahead. Any deal must prevent Iran from possessing nuclear weapons. There must also be robust and ongoing verification that Iran has dismantled its critical nuclear infrastructure before we lift the sanctions. I take seriously my responsibility to examine this agreement, and I will take into consideration the opinions of experts, the administration, and my neighbors in the Hudson Valley before making an informed decision.”
06.26.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruling on Obergefell v. Hodges: “The Supreme Court made the right decision today by recognizing same-sex marriages and treating all same-sex couples across the country equally under the law. Today the court continued the progress of the civil rights movement, and reaffirmed a moral truth about freedom in America that is, as John Kennedy said, "as old as scripture and as clear as the American Constitution.” As children we are taught the founding principle of our nation, that all Americans are created equal, and this ruling is a modern reflection of the Declaration of Independence and the inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Last year, I celebrated this ruling in a personal way - by marrying my now-husband Randy after 22 years together, with whom I have raised three beautiful children. While the idea of marriage was once impossible, in the eyes of the federal government, because of the Supreme Court’s action, our relationship was finally treated as equal under federal law. These triumphs are not only for families like mine, but for millions of Americans who still face legal discrimination simply for who they are and who they love. I will continue to work in Congress to make sure that we keep taking steps toward full equality.”
06.16.2015	Washington, DC— Today, U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that 14 students from the Hudson Valley accepted offers of appointment to one of the nation’s service academies. Rep. Maloney has the ability to nominate students to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. To assist with the nomination process, Rep. Maloney established an esteemed committee of military and civic leaders from the Hudson Valley that interviewed potential nominees, reviewed their applications and made recommendations. The Academies make the final decision on who receives an appointment of admission. “These students have demonstrated impressive academic, leadership and character qualities, and I commend their commitment to serve our country. It’s an honor to be a small part of one of our country’s oldest traditions of nominating the Hudson Valley’s best and brightest for acceptance into a service academy,” said Rep. Maloney. “Service academies like the U.S. Military Academy at West Point provide a top notch education while preparing young men and women for leadership roles in our nation's armed forces.” The following students were nominated by Rep. Maloney and accepted an offer of appointment to one of the following academies: U.S. Military Academy (9) Brett VanBuren from Chelsea, NY Jared Rivera from Goshen, NY Brigitta Anderson from Newburgh, NY Junus Sela from Beacon, NY Conner Russell from Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY Andrew Grella from Beacon, NY Scott Flanick from Montgomery, NY Spencer Pavia from Monroe, NY Aaron Finch from Hopewell Junction, NY U.S. Air Force Academy (3) Reese Fairchild from Middletown, NY Samantha Reed from Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY Dylan Soder from Monroe, NY U.S. Naval Academy (2) Benjamin Smith from Katonah, NY Daniel Kelly from Warwick, NY More information and application requirements are available at https://seanmaloney.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. Rep. Maloney will start accepting applications on August 15, 2015 for those interested in entering one of the Service Academies in the summer of 2016.
06.12.2015	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement after the House vote on TAA and Fast Track (TPA): “This trade deal is no different from the deals of the past that shipped American jobs overseas and devastated cities in the Hudson Valley and across New York. I’m fighting for jobs here in New York and I’ll keep voting no on these deals until someone can actually show me that this plan works for my neighbors back home.”
06.12.2015	Washington, DC— Today, U.S. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement in opposition to TAA and Fast Track (TPA): “Today, Speaker Boehner is bringing Trade Adjustment Assistance and Fast Track to the House floor for a vote. This bait-and-switch arrangement promises to help workers who have lost their jobs in previous bad trade agreements - but only if the Congress agrees to fast track yet another job-killing trade deal. I will vote against TAA and the other trade deals that do nothing but hurt working families in the Hudson Valley. I urge my friends and neighbors throughout the country to call their members of Congress and ask them to join me in sticking up for American workers by voting against TPA and TAA. You can find your member here: LINK.”
04.17.2015	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) invited Hudson Valley students to take part in a Service Academy Informational Workshop on Saturday May 9th, 2015 from 11:00AM – 2:00PM in the auditorium of Newburgh Free Academy located at 201 Fullerton Avenue, Newburgh, NY 12550. The workshop will focus on informing prospective U.S. Service Academy applicants about the Service Academy application process as well as how to apply for a nomination to a U.S. Service Academy through his office. “Service academies provide a top notch education and full four-year scholarship while preparing young men and women for leadership roles in our nation's armed forces. This workshop is open to all Hudson Valley students and parents who want to get a head start through the highly competitive admissions process,” said Representative Maloney. There are four U.S. Service Academies that require nomination from a Member of Congress: United States Military Academy at West Point, NY United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings’ Point, NY At the workshop, there will be presentations from representatives from each of the U.S. Service Academies, and a member of Maloney’s staff will deliver a presentation on the Service Academy Nomination Application process for his office. If you are interested in attending, or have any additional questions about this event, please contact Oscar Dunham at 845-561-1259 or oscar.dunham@mail.house.gov.
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement in support of a resolution opposing discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people. In addition, Maloney expressed support for a comprehensive federal non-discrimination bill. “Too many LGBT Americans still face discrimination in their homes, schools, and workplaces and it’s appalling that some states want to sanction further discrimination against their own neighbors. Americans from all backgrounds are uniting against discriminatory bills targeting LGBT people because these laws would set back our country’s fight for equality by decades. Now is the time to once and for all replace the patchwork of protections for LGBT Americans with a historic federal non-discrimination bill.”
04.16.2015	Newburgh, NY - Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) came out in strong opposition to Senator Orrin Hatch and Congressman Paul Ryan’s new legislation which fast tracks the Trans-Pacific partnership trade agreement and would bypass Congressional input, amendments and debate on the potential agreement. “We can’t repeat past mistakes by blindly rubber-stamping secret negotiations - folks from the Hudson Valley can’t afford another failed trade agreement that would ship more jobs overseas and hurt our environment. Increased trade can be good for everyone, but I won’t support any agreement until someone can show me how this makes life better for hardworking families and creates jobs here in the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. Recently, the Washington Post refuted the claim that the Trans-Pacific Partnership would create jobs noting "the correct number is zero (in the long run), not 650,000."
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – After nearly a decade long fight to stand by our first responders who answered the call of duty on September 11th, Congress finally fulfilled its moral obligation in late 2010 and provided our 9/11 heroes with the health care and financial compensation they deserved by passing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. With the Zadroga bill’s two critical programs – the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund – set to expire in October 2015 and October 2016 respectively a bipartisan group of lawmakers from across the country today introduced the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act to permanently extend these programs. Last month, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed an amendment to the Senate budget resolution that will facilitate future legislation to renew and extend the Zadroga Act. Led by U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Senator Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) and Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL), the bill was introduced in the Senate with 12 total cosponsors, including Senators Warren (D-MA), Blumenthal (D-CT), Sanders (D-VT), Menedez (D-NJ), Murphy (D-CT), Booker (D-NJ), Baldwin (D-WI) and Shaheen (D-NH). Led by Representatives Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Peter King (R-NY) and Lee Zeldin (R-NY), the companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives 39 total original co-sponsors, including: Israel (D-NY), Meeks (D-NY), Meng (D-NY), Rangel (D-NY), Crowley (D-NY), Serrano (D-NY), Engel (D-NY), Lowey (D-NY), Higgins (D-NY), SP Maloney (D-NY), Tonko (D-NY), Jeffries (D-NY), Rice (D-NY), Katko (R-NY), Gibson (R-NY), Clarke (D-NY), Hanna (R-NY), Slaughter (D-NY), Velazquez (D-NY), Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Pallone (D-NJ), MacArthur (R-NJ), DeLauro (D-CT), Himes (D-CT), Larson (D-CT), Esty (D-CT), Norton (D-DC), McGovern (D-VA), Connolly (D-VA), Sires (D-NJ), Courtney (D-CT), Pascrell (D-NJ), Grijalva (D-AZ), Vargas (D-CA), Cárdenas (D-CA), and Pocan (D-WI). Nearly 14 years after September 11th, 9/11 responders and survivors are still battling serious health crises resulting from exposure to the toxins at Ground Zero. More than 33,000 9/11 responders and survivors have an illness or injury caused by the attacks or their aftermath, and over two-thirds of those have more than one illness. Many are disabled and can no longer work. They are suffering from a host of chronic diseases: asthma, obstructive pulmonary disease, gastroesophageal reflux disease, cancer and many more, caused by exposure to toxins and carcinogens at Ground Zero. Responders came from all over the country to aid in the response to the attacks. And some area survivors, including area residents, workers and children harmed by the disaster, have since moved and are currently receiving care in cities and states across the country. Participants enrolled in the World Trade Center Health Program for treatment currently reside in all 50 states and in 429 of the 435 Congressional Districts in the country. “Nearly 14 years ago, we relied on our first responders to lead the rescue and recovery work at Ground Zero, in Shanksville and at the Pentagon – we cannot turn our back now when they need us most,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. “Just 4 years ago, Congress came together to ensure that the heroes of 9/11 – the first responders and survivors, including area residents, workers and children, who now live in all 50 states – receive the health care and compensation they deserve. I am proud to stand hand-in-hand with members from both sides of the aisle and from both chambers of Congress because it shouldn’t take another ‘Christmas Miracle’ for Congress to do the right thing and stand by our heroes.” “170 Illinoisans are being cared for through these crucial 9/11 health programs, and those who helped lead Americans to safety deserve our continued care and support,” said Senator Mark Kirk. “This bipartisan group has stood by our heroes and Congress shouldn't hesitate to help provide vital health screenings and care to police, firefighters and EMS heroes who selflessly came to the rescue 14 years ago.” “Alongside my New York colleagues, and a group of bipartisan Senators from states as far-flung as Illinois and Alaska, I will fight to renew and strengthen the health program that serves the first-responder heroes from 9/11,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer. “The people who rushed to the towers on 9/11 and in the days and weeks after are veterans of the ‘War on Terror,’ and in this country we take care of our veterans – no ‘ifs, ands, or buts.’” “I’m proud to continue the work we started years ago standing up for 9/11 first responders and survivors,” Senator Baldwin said. “It is vitally important that we take action to permanently extend these programs so our 9/11 first responders and their families continue receiving the care they deserve.” “Though September 11, 2001 remains the most momentous date for this nation in the 21st century for every American, the tragic events that day have meant a lingering, difficult reality today and every day for the first responders who face adverse health issues simply because they answered the call to duty and sought to protect their fellow man,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “Extending the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act is about fulfilling our nation’s moral responsibility to the first responders from Alaska and every other state who responded to the events of September 11th at substantial risk to their own safety.” “We made a promise on September 11th, not only to rebuild, and pursue justice against those who attacked us, but to care for the injured and their families, and the first responders and volunteers who risked everything to help others in the wake of the attacks,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “Our commitment to ‘never forget’ knew no bounds or party lines when joined in unison on the steps of the Capitol back in 2001, and it doesn’t today. Those who were there at Ground Zero, the Pentagon, and Shanksville continue to suffer the consequences. We must let them know they are not alone - America stands with these heroes. We must reauthorize the Zadroga Act.” “We will never forget those we lost on September 11th, and we will never forget the strength, bravery, and resilience our country demonstrated that morning,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler. “And we must never abandon the brave first responders and survivors who risked everything in the days, weeks, and months following the attacks to rebuild our city and their lives. Just as they did not hesitate to answer our call 14 years ago, we cannot turn our back on them now. We must reauthorize the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act.” “With two critical programs set to expire within the next 18 months and still too many of our 9/11 responders and survivors continuing to fight serious illnesses, it is imperative that we renew and extend the Zadroga Act,” said Congressman Peter King. “We have come too far and we must continue to ensure that our 9/11 heroes receive the care they deserve.” “We don’t leave our injured soldiers on the battlefield, and we certainly shouldn’t leave the 9/11 first responders who are at increased risk for cancer and other ailments with no funding,” said Congressman Charles Rangel. “While we can never fully express our gratitude for their sacrifices and patriotism, we can provide them the care they need and deserve. I am proud to stand alongside my dear friends and colleagues to stand up for the heroes who now most need our help." “We have a moral responsibility to continue caring for those who honorably served our nation at a time of great need,” said Congressman Joe Crowley. “The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act has brought much-needed assistance to thousands of people and must be reauthorized to ensure that support will continue to be there. We simply can’t afford to quit on the men and women who wouldn’t quit on our country when we needed them most.” “It’s essential that The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act is extended so that the necessary assistance is provided to our 9/11 first responders,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “These brave men and women deserve the care and treatment they have earned for their selfless acts on September 11th, 2001. That’s why I co-sponsor the act and will be urging all of my colleagues to vote for it. After 9/11, we vowed to never forget; this is just one of the ways we can remember and help all of those who showed enormous amounts of courage and bravery in the aftermath of the attack on America." “As a nation, we made a commitment to stand together and never forget the brave men and women who acted without hesitation to save thousands of lives on 9/11,” said Congressman Steve Israel. “It is our moral obligation to uphold this promise and extend the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act to ensure that these survivors continue to receive the medical treatment and support that they need and deserve.” “Fourteen years after the 9/11 attacks, there are still thousands of first responders suffering the effects of the attacks that need our help,” said Congressman José E. Serrano. “We have a moral obligation to them for the service they paid our nation, and the James Zadroga Reauthorization Act will help ensure they continue to have access to the health care and financial support they deserve. I am proud to join colleagues from both sides of the aisle and all parts of the nation to introduce this important legislation in support of our 9/11 heroes.” “I believe that allowing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act to expire later this year, while so many first-responders and volunteers are still struggling with the health effects of 9/11, would be disgraceful,” said Congressman Eliot Engel, a senior member of the House Health Subcommittee. “Not renewing the Zadroga Act is an outrage to every first-responder, an insult to every man and woman who selflessly ran into those buildings that fateful day, and an affront to the memory of everyone who lost their lives. Congress has a moral obligation to renew this act.” “In the days and months that followed 9/11, our first responders selflessly put their lives and health at risk,” said Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney. “With many of our heroes and survivors struggling with serious illnesses, it’s our duty to make a lifelong commitment to these men, women and children.” “On September 11th, our brave first responders answered the call, and now, nearly 14 years after that horrible day, we must not turn our backs on the heroes who were sickened or injured while working at Ground Zero,” said Congresswoman Grace Meng. “We can never thank our first responders enough for all they did on 9/11 and all that they continue to do each and every day to keep us safe. Survivors and responders in New York and across the country continue to require critical medical care from the toxins that they were exposed to, and we must never, ever abandon them. I call on Congress to immediately renew and extend these vital programs.” “If anything can unite Democrats and Republicans in Congress, it should be our commitment to the emergency responders who risked their lives to lead rescue and recovery efforts in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks,” said Congresswoman Kathleen Rice. “These men and women stepped up when we needed them, and they’re counting on us to do the same. They’re counting on us to come together, Democrats and Republicans from across the country, and ensure that they have the care and compensation they need, and they shouldn’t have to doubt that we’ll get it done.” “In the aftermath of 9/11, New Yorkers joined with first responders and volunteers from across the nation at Ground Zero, working selflessly to help in any way possible,” Governor Cuomo said. “Those men and women stood up in our darkest hour, without concern for their own well-being, and we must continue to honor their service by providing the support they need through reauthorizing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. They deserve nothing less than our full and unwavering support.” “Our first responders were there for us on 9/11 – and every day after. We have a moral obligation to continue to stand with them and ensure that they receive the health care and support they need and deserve,” said NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio. “I’m proud to join this bipartisan coalition in support of our police officers, firefighters, medical professionals, and all of our first responders here and across the country, and thank all of the sponsors for their leadership. I urge Congress to quickly pass this vital reauthorization.” “For almost 14 years, first responders have been dealing with the after effects of the 9/11 attacks,” said Harold Schaitberger, General President of the International Association of Fire Fighters. “For many, this is a fight that will never end. It is our duty to honor those who worked in the terrible aftermath by making sure that the critical programs authorized by the Zadroga Bill are renewed.” “The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) strongly supports the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act,” said William Johnson, Executive Director of the National Association of Police Organizations. “This legislation will not only reauthorize programs to provide critical medical treatment and compensation for 9/11 heroes, but it will also honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our nation. James Zadroga, a New York City Police Department Detective and member of NAPO, died of respiratory disease caused by his exposure to toxic chemicals at Ground Zero. It is our obligation and duty to remember these heroes and ensure that survivors who risked their lives to protect us continue to receive the treatment and compensation that they deserve.” “In 2010, working together, we passed the 9/11 James Zadroga Health and Compensation Act, which has provided medical treatment and compensation to thousands of responders and residents who are sick from toxic exposures following the 9/11 attacks,” said Elizabeth Shuler, AFL-CIO Secretary-Treasurer. “The programs set up under the law have saved lives. Unless Congress acts, these lifesaving programs will end next year. We can’t and won’t let this law expire. As a country, we owe the heroes of 9/11 the care and support they need and deserve. We must pass this bill to renew and extend the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act.” “Congress did the right thing in 2010 when it passed The Zadroga Act. Now, Congress must act quickly to renew and extend the vital benefits for the thousands of 9/11 responders and survivors who continue to battle for their lives and welfare,” said Mario Cilento, President of the New York State AFL-CIO. “The New York State AFL-CIO will coordinate with 49 other state federations across the country to secure bipartisan congressional support for the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act. The Labor Movement remains committed to ensuring that the people who are suffering as a result of their bravery and determination continue to receive the care and support they deserve.” “Providing for those who sacrificed their health responding to the terrorist attacks of September 11th is not a ‘New York issue’—it’s a national obligation,” said Ed Mullins. President of the Sergeants Benevolent Association of the NYPD. “The long-term health effects that we are seeing from exposure to the deadly cocktail of toxins at Ground Zero are affecting brave people from all 50 states. Constituents in 429 of 435 Congressional Districts are affected. As a nation, we owe it to these heroes to do everything we can to honor the sacrifices they made in carrying out their sworn duty to protect and serve on that fateful day.” “We challenge Congress to preserve History collectively as a body of caring Americans, not a body of ideological parties,” said John Feal, 9/11 Responder Advocate. “Citizens for the Extension of the James Zadroga Act, on behalf of thousands of ill 9/11 responders and survivors want to thank our legislative champions who today are beginning the process to extend the programs that help so many stricken by the toxins at Ground Zero,” said James Slevin, Member, Board of Directors of Citizens for the Extension of the James Zadroga Act, James Slevin, Board Member Citizens for the Extension of the James Zadroga Act and Vice President, Uniformed Firefighters Association Local 94 IAFF, AFL-CIO. “I particularly want to thank Senators Murkowski, Kirk, Baldwin and the others who may represent states far from New York and Washington but have shown today that they truly have Not Forgotten 9/11 and the thousands who came from all across the U.S. to help.” The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act passed by Congress in 2010 helped ensure proper monitoring and treatment for thousands of men, women and children that face potential life-threatening health effects due to the toxins released at Ground Zero in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Currently, over 33,000 responders and survivors across the nation have at least one illness or injury while many have multiple 9/11 conditions and are receiving critical treatment and medical care through the WTC Health Program. Over 60,000 9/11 responders and survivors are receiving medical monitoring. The program treats responders and survivors for many chronic diseases and respiratory illnesses, including asthma, sinusitis, obstructive pulmonary disease, and gastroesophageal reflux disease. The WTC Health Program continues to be a critical lifeline for many, particularly when the number of 9/11-related cancer cases among rescue workers and responders has increased over the past decade and continues to grow. So far, there are over 3,900 certified 9/11 cancers among the responders and survivors in the Health Program - including more than 950 New York City Fire Department members that have been diagnosed with 9/11-related cancers, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Since 2012, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has added several types of cancers to the list of 9/11-related illnesses covered by the WTC Health Program. Studies show that 9/11 workers have gotten certain cancers – including prostate, thyroid, and multiple myeloma – at significantly higher rates than the general population. Over 80 NYPD and over 100 FDNY personnel have reportedly died from their 9/11 illnesses since 9/11. More Police officers have died from their injuries since 9/11 than perished on 9/11. The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF), which was reopened under the Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Bill, provides compensation for economic losses to 9/11 responders and survivors and their families for physical injuries as a result of involvement in Ground Zero, including breathing in toxins. Since 2013, the VCF has deemed 4,415 injured 9/11 individuals eligible for compensation. Numerous studies have documented the health effects of the WTC attacks, which include lower and upper respiratory, gastrointestinal, and mental health conditions. These illnesses have caused major financial strains on many of those exposed who are subsequently no longer able to work and would be forced to pay the high price of health care without this federally-funded national program. The new James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act would: Continue the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program. The World Trade Center Health Program administered by NIOSH would continue medical monitoring for 9/11-related illnesses for over 63,000 9/11 first responders and treatment for over 7,800 injured 9/11 survivors. Over 33,000 responders and survivors have at least one or more medical conditions as a result of their 9/11 exposure. Most of these conditions require chronic care. These conditions include severe respiratory diseases, chronic sinus problems, and psychological conditions such as PTSD. Over 3,900 incidences of WTC-related 9/11 cancers have been certified in program participants, including over 950 among people working for the NYC Fire Department, and more are expected. Continue to Provide Monitoring and Treatment for Communities Throughout the Nation. The program would continue to provide medical monitoring and treatment for responders to the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and the Shanksville, PA crash site who live outside the New York metropolitan area. This legislation would continue that treatment for over 7,900 injured and ill 9/11 responders and survivors including responders who came to New York to provide assistance after 9/11 and those from New York who have moved out of the New York Metropolitan area. There are currently responders and survivors who are participating in the WTC Health Program from every state and from 429 of 435 Congressional Districts. Continue the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF). Under the bill the fund, which is scheduled to close on October 3rd 2016, would remain open and be fully funded to provide compensation for economic damages and loss for responders and survivors who were injured by exposure to the toxins at Ground Zero. To date, the Fund has determined 10,549 claimants eligible and has made compensation decisions for 4,415 injured and ill 9/11 responders and survivors for over a billion dollars in compensation. More are expected in the coming years due to the delayed onset of cancer from 9/11 exposure. But without legislation and sufficient funding, 9/11 injured responders will face having their compensation reduced by perhaps 50 percent and those who are diagnosed with cancer in future years would have NO compensation. Make the programs permanent. Many of the responders and survivors have chronic WTC-related illnesses requiring long-term care. Some will have delayed onset of illnesses, especially cancers, due to 9/11 exposures. They will continue to need medical care and compensation. Making the programs permanent would be similar to legislation that was enacted providing medical and compensation benefits for workers at our nuclear facilities (EEOICPA). Continue to New York City’s Cost Share. The City of New York would continue to contribute a 10 percent matching cost share of the total costs of the World Trade Center Health Program. Continue to Research New Conditions. The legislation would continue research in diagnosing and treating WTC-related illnesses. The current WTC Health Program and the reopened September 11th Victim Compensation Fund expire during the 114th Congress. If the legislation is not extended, these vital programs will end. ###
04.14.2015	Washington – With the wage gap growing for women in the Hudson Valley, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney called for the passage of both the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Family and Medical Insurance Leave Act. Today, Equal Pay Day, symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. According to the most recent statistics from the U.S. Census Bureau, the median earnings for U.S. women working full time, year round were just 78 percent of U.S. men’s median earnings; however, in the Hudson Valley, women earned only 74% compared to their male counterpart, the largest gap of all districts in New York. “More than 50 years after President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act, the wage gap in the Hudson Valley is growing for hardworking women – we have to reverse this trend. Women in the Hudson Valley are more likely to be the breadwinners and caretakers; our families and economy suffer when women are paid less than men. We have a lot of work left to do to ensure that my daughters have full economic security and equal opportunities - it’s time for our country to stop putting up barriers to women’s economic opportunity and invest in the women and girls who will lead us into the next century.” Maloney supports both the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Family and Medical Insurance Leave (FAMILY) Act, which would establish a national, gender-neutral paid family and medical leave insurance program. Among its many provisions, the Paycheck Fairness Act requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly related to job performance, not gender; strengthens remedies for women experiencing pay discrimination; prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers; and empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills. Last year, Maloney unveiled an agenda to “Expand Women’s Economic Opportunities.” His agenda focuses on policies that address the real economic needs of women and families, including equal pay for equal work, paid leave, supporting women entrepreneurs and small businesses owners, and expanding access to affordable child care.
04.13.2015	Newburgh, NY – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced a $3,000,000 federal investment to speed up implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC) in New York along Amtrak’s Empire Line. PTC is a simple GPS and Wi-Fi technology that can stop or slow trains remotely. This critical, life-saving technology will not only prevent train-to-train collisions, but could also allow for detection of grade-crossing malfunctions or objects on the tracks. “Implementing positive train control on commuter rails is the single most important thing we can do to prevent accidents and save lives,” said Rep. Maloney. “This grant is a critical investment in our transportation systems that prioritizes the safety of the thousands of my neighbors, and I look forward to continue fighting for implementation of this commonsense GPS and Wi-Fi technology on all rail systems.” Specifically, this Department of Transportation grant will provide conceptual engineering and environmental work necessary to proceed expeditiously in implementing the PTC system on Amtrak’s Empire Line from Poughkeepsie, NY to Hoffmann's, NY near Albany. This year, the House of Representatives passed Maloney’s legislation, Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would help finance positive train control systems for commuter rail systems. Passed as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA), this legislation would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. In 2008, Congress passed a law mandating positive train control systems for commuter and freight railroads, however there have been difficulties meeting this deadline due in part to funding issues. Since 2005, the NTSB has investigated more than a dozen accidents in which dozens people were killed and more than a thousand people were injured. In each of these accidents, the NTSB concluded that PTC would have provided critical redundancy that would have prevented the accident. Following the fatal Metro-North Derailment in December 2013, NTSB announced that PTC could have prevented the accident. Year after year, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has named PTC as one of its "most-wanted" initiatives for national transportation safety.
04.10.2015	Newburgh, NY — Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) invited Hudson Valley schools, teachers, parents and students to take part in his 2nd Annual Hudson Valley Bullying Prevention Summit on Saturday, April 25th from 9:30 AM – 12:00 PM. The summit will focus on eliminating and preventing all areas of bullying including verbal, physical, social alienation and cyber bullying. "As the father of two young girls, I want to make sure parents, teachers and students across the Hudson Valley can have a conversation about bullying in our classrooms, playgrounds, and in our communities," said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. "There is no place in school for bullying and intolerance – empowering teachers and students to reduce bullying will help our children, families and communities grow stronger, and safer.” The program will include a panel discussions. Following the panel discussions, students will brainstorm and share ideas for combating bullying in schools. If you are interested in attending, you can RSVP by calling 845-561-1259 or e-mailing Lizette Hernandez at Lizette.Hernandez@mail.house.gov. After hosting the 1st Annual Hudson Valley Bullying Prevention Summit where more than 100 local students and teachers attended, Maloney released his 2014 Bullying Prevention Report, which highlights findings, best practices, and prevention resources formulated by students and teachers to combat bullying in the Hudson Valley. A copy of this report was sent to every middle and high school across the Hudson Valley. WHEN: Saturday, April 25th at 9:30 AM WHERE: Newburgh Free Academy North Campus Auditorium located at 301 Robinson Ave, Newburgh, NY 12550 ###
03.25.2015	Newburgh, NY – On Saturday, March 28 at 11:30 AM, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), County Executive Steve Neuhaus, Orange County Department of Health’s Healthy Neighborhoods Program and Hudson Valley officials will encourage the use of carbon monoxide detectors in Newburgh while raising awareness about the imminent dangers of CO poisoning. Local officials will accompany community health workers on assessment of three residences on Lander Street. “Three families experienced an unspeakable tragedy that could have been prevented, and sadly, hundreds more deaths occur each year from carbon monoxide poisoning. We can help prevent the next tragedy through discussing the dangers of carbon monoxide poisoning and helping installing CO detectors for those who cannot afford it,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “Orange County is here, on the ground, partnering with our local and federal officials in order to raise awareness about the importance of carbon-monoxide safety and distribute free detectors during Healthy Neighborhoods assessments in our three cities to those without them. We must do all we can to prevent a repeat of the tragedy that rocked the Newburgh community just a few short weeks ago, and I applaud our Department of Health for working so diligently with city and federal officials to quickly address this vital safety issue,” said County Executive Steve Neuhaus. Through the Healthy Neighborhood Program in Orange County, residents of targeted census tracts in the county’s three cities can receive needed smoke detectors, carbon monoxide alarms, batteries, cleaning supplies, and other safety interventions. They may also request a free lead assessment of their house or apartment through the department’s Primary Prevention Program. Residents can call the Community Health Outreach Office at (845) 568-5237 to schedule an appointment for a Healthy Neighborhoods visit. New York State law requires smoke and carbon monoxide detectors in all types of housing. It is the responsibility of the property owner, including landlords, to ensure these devices are in place. Both the Healthy Neighborhood program and the Newburgh Fire Department will provide home safety checks and install pre-purchased detectors when needed. Media are invited to attend. WHAT: Press conference & Healthy Neighborhoods Visits in Newburgh WHEN: Saturday, March 28, 2015 at 11:30 AM WHO: Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), County Executive Steve Neuhaus, Healthy Neighborhoods and other Hudson Valley Officials WHERE: 128 Broadway (rear entrance of Woolworth Building) in Newburgh, NY 12550
03.25.2015	Washington – Rep Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement following the Supreme Court’s decision to revive Peggy Young’s pregnancy discrimination claim. On a 6-3 vote, the Supreme Court sent the case back to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals to determine whether the company should have granted her request for temporary changes in work duties after she became pregnant in 2006. “Thirty five years after Congress passed the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, hardworking women still face discrimination in the workplace. Employers can make commonsense accommodations for pregnant workers and I’m hopeful the Fourth Circuit will stand up for women by enforcing the act properly,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. Rep. Maloney supports the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, which would expand the 1978 Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA). Specifically, the legislation would close legal loopholes and require employers to make reasonable accommodations to employees who have limitations stemming from pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions, unless the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the employer. These on-the-job accommodations would be low-cost and not disruptive. The bill also bars employers from denying employment opportunities to women based on their need for reasonable accommodations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.
03.18.2015	Newburgh, NY – Following a significant increase in deaths and collisions at grade crossings nationwide, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) called for the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to do a “Deep Dive” examination into measures to reduce collisions and deaths in these accidents. Specifically, Maloney urged FRA experts to look into the most effective and cost efficient safety devices, warning signals and gates to notify motorists and pedestrians of an approaching train, other FRA funding sources to ensure communities can install necessary technology or relocate crossings, efforts to expand public education and a new minimum distance between the tracks and grade crossings. In his letter, Maloney wrote, “In light of the rising number of collisions at grade crossings and several serious passenger train derailments, I believe we must take a comprehensive, fresh look at safety measures, new technologies, and education efforts to prevent future accidents. The statistics and the Metro North rail tragedy underscore my concern that our country has not fully identified and implemented all of the best practices and technology that can make our rail system safer and prevent tragedies like the one at Valhalla.” A copy of the letter is below: Dear Administrator Feinberg: I am writing to request that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) immediately conduct a “Deep Dive” focused on reducing collisions and deaths at grade crossings. In light of the rising number of collisions at grade crossings and several serious passenger train derailments in New York, North Carolina and California, I believe we must take a comprehensive, fresh look at safety measures, new technologies, and education efforts to prevent future accidents. Although the National Transportation Safety Board will investigate each of these derailments and make their own safety recommendations, we know that 95 percent of all rail-related deaths happen near grade crossings, and unfortunately, deaths related to grade crossing accidents were up in 2014 compared to the previous year. Overall, more than 260 people were killed in highway-rail grade crossing accidents last year, an increase of about 16 percent compared to 2013. Additionally, collisions overall were also up - there were nearly 2,300 vehicle-train accidents in 2014, nearly a 9 percent increase over the previous year. These statistics and the Metro North rail tragedy underscore my concern that our country has not fully identified and implemented all of the best practices and technology that can make our rail system safer and prevent tragedies like the one at Valhalla. As part of a comprehensive safety review, I believe we must look at a series of measures to reduce collisions and deaths and research the studies and practices of other countries worldwide. I urge FRA experts to begin looking at: • Most effective and cost efficient safety devices, warning signals and gates to notify motorists and pedestrians of an approaching train • A classification system for more dangerous crossings • A new minimum distance between the tracks and grade crossings • Efforts to expand public education • Other FRA funding sources to ensure communities can install necessary technology or relocate crossings •Technology including crash management technology, Positive Train Control and sensors I appreciate your recent efforts at starting a safety campaign that includes asking local police to issue more tickets to drivers who ignore warnings at crossings, but we can and should do more to reduce deaths. I look forward at being your partner in Congress to implement any of your safety recommendations so we can make our rail system safer for passengers, pedestrians and motorists. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
03.17.2015	Newburgh, NY – Following a minor derailment near Beacon, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) urged the Federal Railroad Administration to expedite their investigation noting that hundreds of passenger and freight trains rely on the Hudson Line. “Although there was only minor damage following this derailment, we need to prevent the next accident, which could be catastrophic for Hudson River ecosystem or tens of thousands of commuters who rely on the Hudson Line,” said Maloney. A copy of the letter is below: Dear Administrator Feinberg, As you know on Saturday, March 14 at 2:15 AM, two debris cars from a CSX train derailed south of Beacon, New York. As you begin your investigation of this event, I urge you to expedite the Federal Railroad Administration activities, since CSX freight trains, Amtrak and Metro-North passenger trains all use the heavily traveled Hudson Line. Although there were no injuries or spills this time, hundreds of trains travel on the Hudson Line every day. A more serious accident could spell disaster for the fragile the Hudson River ecosystem, and a weekday incident could impact tens of thousands of commuters. The Hudson line transports approximately 16 million riders annually and last year, the Empire Service from New York City to Albany had a record 1.1 million riders. We’ve seen several recent accidents on rail lines in New York and Connecticut -- these incidents on this highly trafficked route cause significant disruptions to my neighbors throughout the Hudson Valley. I request that you act with the utmost urgency to determine the cause of this derailment and outline any future actions to prevent another, potentially catastrophic, accident. Please keep me informed on any developments on this investigation. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
03.17.2015	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) urged the Senate to resolve the current statement over human trafficking that has put his legislation, the bipartisan Human Trafficking Prevention Act, at risk. Senator Sherrod Brown has offered Maloney’s Human Trafficking Prevention Act to be included as part of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, which failed to clear a procedural hurdle today. Within the first few days of the new Congress, the House of Representatives unanimously passed Maloney’s Human Trafficking Prevention Act, which help train Foreign Service Officers and immigration officials to stem the demand for trafficking and spot victims before they are trafficked into the United States. “I’m shocked and appalled - only the U.S. Congress could make combatting human trafficking a partisan issue. Instead of focusing on restricting women’s access to healthcare, Republicans in the Senate should focus on helping victims of modern day slavery. The Senate can’t miss the opportunity to assist survivors and combat human trafficking at its source by giving our frontline public servants the tools they need to spot potential victims,” said Maloney. Although the federal government has a zero tolerance policy on human trafficking, Foreign Service Officers, who often have face-to-face contact with victims obtaining US visas, undergo minimal training to define, identify and recognize indicators of human trafficking or smuggling. A recent Inspector General report of the U.S. State Department issued multiple recommendations including creation of a distance learning course on trafficking-in-persons issues for embassy reporting officers, regional bureaus' trafficking-in -persons coordinators, and their superiors as well as requiring in person briefings for all ambassadors and deputy chiefs of mission before they depart for their posts. This week, the New York Assembly voted to make human trafficking a violent felony punishable by a minimum of five years in prison, require anti-human-trafficking training for law enforcement and enable victims of human trafficking to sue their perpetrators. This legislation was approved by the Senate earlier this year. “The disgusting practice of modern day slavery is happening in our own backyard, and the U.S. Senate should take note of the bipartisan work in New York.”
03.16.2015	Newburgh, NY – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and local elected officials invited residents and businesses to participate in an online survey which asks the community their preference on future locations for a Post Office to serve Cold Spring. “I want the voices of my neighbors to be heard directly by USPS because we have to get this decision right for the residents and businesses that rely on the Cold Spring Post Office,” said Maloney. “I’m pleased that the Congressman is giving us this opportunity and I’m glad that this survey is out. It gives the people an opportunity to voice their concern about what’s important here,” said Cold Spring Mayor Falloon. “We need a post office in this Community. Congressman Maloney is working hard to ensure that we have the best possible outcome for the residents of Philipstown,” said Supervisor Richard Shea. In February, the United States Postal Service (USPS) began soliciting the opinions of residents about potential new locations for the Cold Spring Post Office. Last year, Postal employees and customers began using a temporary trailer in Cold Spring to maintain service for the community after the lease extension expired in January 2014. Any local residents can visit Rep. Maloney’s website to complete the survey: https://seanmaloney.house.gov/maloney-and-local-officials-seek-input-on-cold-spring-post-office.
03.13.2015	Newburgh, NY - Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) will teach a free six week course on government at the Newburgh Armory Unity Center beginning on Saturday, March 21, 2015. Representative Maloney, who began representing the Hudson Valley in Congress in 2013, hopes to give students a better understanding of how the various levels of government, stakeholders and citizens work together and how this work affects people in real life. The course will introduce the overall framework of local, state and federal government from the unique perspective of a United States Congressman and former White House staffer. “For many students who haven’t met their elected officials, I wanted to bring their government to the classroom. I look forward to having a conversation with local students on our different levels of government and their everyday impact on our lives,” said Maloney. The first class will be held on Saturday, March 21 at the Newburgh Armory Unity Center from 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM and will continue until Saturday, April 25th. This class is open to all middle and high school students but will have limited space availability. Interested students can send a one paragraph statement of interest to Molly Carey at molly.carey@mail.house.gov by Thursday, March 19, 2015. Applicants will be notified of their selection on a rolling basis. For any additional questions, please call Molly Carey at 202-225-5441.
03.11.2015	Newburgh, NY – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency to expedite and approve the Newburgh Fire Department’s application to prevent the layoffs of twelve firefighters this year. “We know these firefighters have saved lives in the past year, which is why this investment is critical to protect our families, homes, and businesses,” said Maloney. In September 2013, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand and Rep. Maloney announced that City of Newburgh will receive $2,400,000 to hire fifteen new firefighters, twelve of which are facing layoffs on December 31, 2015. Although their 2013 grant application was initially denied, Rep. Maloney worked closely with the Newburgh Fire Department and FEMA personnel to ensure the Department received this SAFER award. The goal of the SAFER grant program is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire related hazards. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid off due to the economy. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants are administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program’s priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.firegrantsupport.com/ . A copy of the letter is below: Dear Mr. Kamoie: I am writing to express my full and unquestionable support of the funding application referenced above, submitted by the Newburgh Fire Department (NFD). The NFD is in desperate need of your assistance and expedited review of their application. Failure to award its Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program - Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) application will further jeopardize the safety of my neighbors, and will result in twelve additional firefighters being laid-off on December 31, 2015. Award of this application will allow the NFD to strengthen its staffing levels, and in doing so ensure that Newburgh and surrounding region remain safe. The City of Newburgh has already put several firefighters on official notice that they will be laid-off by December 31, 2015, if alternative funding is not identified for their positions. The lay-offs of these brave public servants would once again cause the fire department to fall behind in its size, strength, and efficiency. Because on an initial SAFER grant, the NFD has been able to meet National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards for the first time in nearly a decade and save lives. Earlier this year, the NFD responded to a three story building fire and without the additional firefighters on the job, the NFD would not have been able to save a victim’s life. It is worth noting that the City of Newburgh is being considered for Promise Zone designation by the Executive Branch, and once awarded the designation, the City will be able to further its mission to improve the safety, security, and well-being of its employees and citizens alike. I have met with city officials to ensure the Fire Department is making all cost cutting measures possible but as you may know, Newburgh faces dire financial circumstances of declining property values and a limited tax base. In closing, I implore you to review this application and award the NFD with the ability to remain in compliance with NFPA. Therefore, I fully support this application and urge your serious consideration of this critical investment. In order to keep my office informed about this opportunity, or if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my Deputy District Director, Joseph Donat by phone at (845) 561-1295 or via e-mail at Joseph.Donat@mail.house.gov. Thank you in advance for your time and careful consideration of this request as both are greatly appreciated. Sincerely, Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress
03.09.2015	Newburgh, NY – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) joined Congressman John Lewis, civil rights leaders, and more than 100 members of the U.S. House and Senate in Selma, Alabama to mark the 50th anniversary of “Bloody Sunday.” On March 7, 1965, a group of brave civil rights marchers, including Congressman Lewis, marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, on their way to Montgomery to demand that African American citizens finally be given their constitutional right to vote. At the bridge, the marchers were beaten and forced back by Alabama State troopers. 50 years later, Maloney joined Congressman Lewis in a march across the landmark bridge from the historic Brown Chapel AME Church. “Although we’ve made historic progress over the last 50 years, we still have many bridges to cross to reach full equality for all Americans,” said Maloney. “Together we must fight until every American has equal rights, equal access to the ballot, and equal opportunity to achieve the American Dream.” On March 15, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson addressed a Joint Session of Congress, urging Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act. On March 21, Martin Luther King Jr. led a march across the bridge –joined by 30,000 people from across the country, including national civil rights leaders like current Congressman John Lewis ­-- this time protected by federal troops. On March 25, the marchers reached the steps of the Alabama State Capitol in Montgomery, where Reverend King and the other marchers called for voting rights legislation. “It was only two years ago that the Supreme Court decide to invalidate critical provisions of the Voting Rights Act - a shocking setback to the core principles of our very democracy. We can’t miss an opportunity to pass new civil rights laws that protect all Americans – regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, or economic status,” concluded Maloney. Maloney also attended a service at 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham where four girls were killed in a bombing, and a wreath-laying ceremony at the Civil Rights Memorial. In addition, he visited the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, Rosa Parks Museum, and Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, where Dr. King pastored and where the Montgomery bus boycotts were organized. You can view photos from Maloney’s visit here.
03.09.2015	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement on the train accident in North Carolina involving a New York bound Amtrak: “It shouldn’t take tragedy after tragedy for us to act on commonsense improvements at dangerous rail crossings, and until we do, these preventable accidents will continue to be everyday occurrences. Ninety-five percent of train-related deaths actually happen at highway-rail crossings, so it’s clear we need to improve awareness about the dangers of crossings as well as make safety upgrades or relocate crossings,” said Maloney. Last week, the House passed Maloney’s legislation to reauthorize the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR), which allows states and local governments to make safety improvements and lateral or vertical relocation of rail lines in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for train passengers, motorists and pedestrians. Last Thursday, Maloney joined U.S. Representatives Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Jim Himes (CT-4), Julia Brownley (CA-26), and Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) to introduce the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015, H.R. 1291. The Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 provides states and communities with more resources to prevent collisions at grade crossings and strengthens programs, including the Railway-Highway Crossing Program and the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Grants Safety Program, which have been underfunded and underutilized. In addition, this legislation includes Maloney’s bill to reauthorize the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR). By building bridges and tunnels to separate roadways from rail track, by installing improved lights and signals at crossings, and by increasing public awareness of grade crossing dangers, states and communities can take significant steps toward making highway-rail grade crossings safer.
03.06.2015	Days before another derailment in Illinois, U.S. Reps. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Ron Kind (D-WI), Tim Walz (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), and Cedric Richmond (D-LA) introduced the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation (RESPONSE) Act today, to help first responders in local communities in the event of a train derailment or fuel spill. “Until we have new tanker cars, accidents like the derailment in Illinois will continue to happen frequently and without warning. The federal government is years behind where they should be on commonsense standards and giving our first responders the resources they need to effectively respond to a catastrophic accident,” said Maloney. “As more and more oil is being shipped across Wisconsin, the risk of derailments and spills in our local communities continues to grow,” said Rep. Kind. “We rely on our local first responders to do so much to protect our communities, and this bill will give them needed tools and resources so they can react quickly and effectively in case of a rail emergency. This is an important step forward, but more work needs to be done on issues including better track inspections, upgraded train tracks, and more transparency so the public knows what’s being transported on our rails.” According to the Association of American Railroads, oil shipments by rail jumped from 9,500 carloads in 2008 to more than 500,000 in 2014. With a 40 fold increase of crude by rail, small communities are seeing significant increase of trains with limited resources and training to combat these continual accidents. Our small cities and local first responders need the proper training and resources so that, if needed, they can respond appropriately to derailments, spills, and other dangerous situations resulting from a crude-by-rail or hazardous material derailment in their communities. The RESPONSE Act brings together agencies, emergency responders, technical experts, and the private sector to review training, best practices, resources and unmet needs related to railroad incidents. The committee would also provide recommendations to Congress within one year on emergency responder training and resource allocation, addressing quality of training, funding levels, emergency response plans, and improving the flow of information to local first responders. It would also help develop a train incident database. A companion bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND). Last month, Maloney sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan requesting urgent approval of strong tank car standards in the rules for crude oil transport, which include a stronger car than the “safer” CPC 1232. He’s also asked for inclusion of local first responders as part of the notification to state emergency responders for trains carrying more than a million gallons of Bakken crude.
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Jim Himes (CT-4), Julia Brownley (CA-26), and Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) introduced the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015, H.R. 1291. Their bill will help states and communities make safety upgrades at highway-rail grade crossings. Each year, nearly 270 people are killed at grade crossings, including the recent tragedies in Valhalla, NY, and Oxnard, CA. “Recent accidents at highway-rail grade crossings, including the fatal accident in Valhalla that killed a Danbury resident, are unacceptable and completely avoidable. Investing in rail safety programs and supporting innovative grade crossing safety initiatives will help prevent these tragedies in the future. Our Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act supports essential rail safety improvements, bringing us one step closer to ensuring safe, reliable rail service for all riders,” said Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5). “These accidents are a wake-up call,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “While every driver should use caution at rail crossings, there are hundreds of high-hazard, dangerous crossings in New York that need significant improvements, and this important legislation gives local communities the resources they need to upgrade or relocate crossings.” “Last month's fatal accident on Metro-North and other similar tragedies nationwide demonstrate the urgent need to improve safety at rail crossings in our communities. This legislation provides concrete steps to raise public awareness and invest in the technology and infrastructure upgrades that are necessary to help keep our drivers and rail passengers safe," said Rep. Jim Himes (CT-4). “Given the tremendous backlog of projects nationwide – including crossing safety improvements at Rice Avenue in Oxnard – Congress must increase funding for highway-rail crossing safety programs. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this important safety legislation,” said Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26). “This legislation takes an important step toward improving safety at deadly rail crossings like Midland Avenue in Elmwood Park, NJ, which is listed as one of the most dangerous in the nation,” said Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-9). “By raising public awareness and implementing modern technology, this bill can bring rail safety into the 21st century. It’s imperative that we continue to work to find a permanent solution to this grave public safety issue.” The Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Safety Act of 2015 provides states and communities with more resources to prevent collisions at grade crossings and strengthens existing programs, including the Railway-Highway Crossing Program, the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Grants Safety Program, and the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program, which have been underfunded and underutilized. By building bridges and tunnels to separate roadways from rail track, by installing improved lights and signals at crossings, and by increasing public awareness of grade crossing dangers, states and communities can take significant steps toward making highway-rail grade crossings safer. The bill, H.R. 1291, has been referred to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Charles Schumer (D-NY) have introduced a similar measure, S.532, in the U.S. Senate. ###
03.04.2015	Washington – Following three major grade crossing accidents in New York in the past month, the House of Representatives passed two key provisions authored by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA) including significant investments in rail crossing improvements and Positive Train Control. Passed by a vote of 316-101, Maloney’s legislation allows states and local governments to make safety improvements and lateral or vertical relocation of rail lines in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for train passengers, motorists and pedestrians. “These accidents are a wake-up call. While every driver should use caution at rail crossings, there are hundreds of high-hazard, dangerous crossings in New York that need significant improvements, and this investment gives local communities the resources they need to upgrade or relocate crossings,” said Maloney. “The implementation of basic GPS and Wi-Fi technology that can stop or slow trains remotely is long overdue, and by working across the aisle, our commuter and freight trains will soon have access to existing funding to install this critical Positive Train Control technology.” Notably, PRRIA includes Rep. Maloney’s bill, H.R. 705, the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which reauthorizes the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR). As part of an annual $300 million reauthorization with the Intercity Passenger Rail Service Program, the RLR program allows state and local communities to invest in local rail line relocation and improvement projects at grade crossings. In the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget request, the Department of Transportation listed railroad intersections as one of the “three most pressing rail safety issues.” In addition, the bipartisan PRRIA bill will help commuter rail lines like Metro-North fund and implement Positive Train Control (PTC) systems. Originally authored following the tragic Metro-North derailment in December 2013 and reintroduced in this Congress, Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act would help finance Positive Train Control systems for commuter rail systems. This legislation would make all Positive Train Control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. Ninety-five percent of deaths involving trains happen at highway-rail crossings. While deaths and accidents have declined steadily nationwide, accidents continue to happen in New York, the home of 5,304 grade crossings. From 2012-2014, there were 81 accidents, 15 deaths and 23 injuries at grade crossings, according to the Federal Railroad Administration.
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “Israel and the U.S. have a uniquely strong alliance built on our common values, principles, and interests, and our support for our close friend will never waver. Both the U.S. and Israel’s top security priority is preventing a weaponized program in Iran, and any final agreement must ensure that Iran does not obtain nuclear weapons. However, a bad deal is worse than no deal, and we won’t know what we have until the negotiations end.”
03.02.2015	CHAPPAQUA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and Hudson Valley elected officials today at a press conference at a Metro-North railroad crossing site in Chappaqua urged Congress to pass a passenger rail bill that includes significant investments in rail crossing improvements. This week, the House of Representatives is expected to consider the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA), which includes Maloney and Lowey’s legislation H.R. 705, the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which invests in state and local governments' efforts to build bridges, tunnels or otherwise relocate roads in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for passengers, motorists and pedestrians. In addition, Lowey announced she proposed an amendment to PRRIA that would set aside $10 million to build upon existing efforts like Operation Lifesaver for a national high-visibility enforcement and education campaign. “The Valhalla Metro-North collision never should have occurred, but incidents at grade crossings are all too common,” said Lowey. “The Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act is expected to be considered in the House this week, and I have proposed an amendment that would set aside $10 million for a national high-visibility enforcement and education campaign. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to work with Congressman Maloney and my colleagues in Congress to employ every tool at our disposal to take on this challenge of improving grade crossing safety.” “By working across the aisle, we’re making significant investments that will save lives with positive train control technology and safer rail crossings,” said Maloney. “Unfortunately preventable and deadly incidents at rail crossings continue occurring across New York, and this investment for our local and state governments will ensure the resources are available to improve safety at dangerous, high-hazard crossings.” “Every motorist and train passenger should expect that every possible measure is in place to provide for their safety,” said Westchester Board of Legislators Chairman Michael Kaplowitz. “I am happy to work with our representatives in Congress to makes sure we are doing all we can to make sure we never see another tragedy at one of these crossings.” “Every day, members of our community leave their homes to embark on what should always be a safe commute to work along with an uneventful return home,” said Town of New Castle Supervisor Robert J. Greenstein. “Unfortunately, on February 3, 2015, two members of our community did not return home. In the aftermath of the tragic Metro-North accident, the need to eliminate dangerous train crossings became clear. However, when the railroad grade crossing is located within half a mile of a high school with a large percentage of young and relatively inexperienced drivers, the need becomes urgent. We thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for their leadership on this critical public safety initiative. We must prevent another tragedy.” Notably, PRRIA reauthorizes a program that expired in 2009, the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR). As part of an annual $300 million reauthorization with the Intercity Passenger Rail Service Program, the RLR program allows state and local communities to invest in local rail line relocation and improvement projects at grade crossings. In the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget request, the Department of Transportation listed railroad intersections as one of the “three most pressing rail safety issues.” In the past, the RLR program allowed states and local governments to make lateral and vertical relocation of rail lines in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for train passengers, motorists and pedestrians. Lowey’s amendment to PRRIA would set aside $10 million for a national high-visibility enforcement and education campaign. The amendment is modeled after the successful “Click it or Ticket” campaign for seatbelts and the “Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over” campaign for impaired driving. These campaigns represent an important partnership between the U.S. Department of Transportation and local law enforcement officials to address critical safety risks. Ninety-five percent of deaths involving trains happen at highway-rail crossings. While deaths and accidents have declined steadily nationwide, accidents continue to happen in New York, the home of 5,304 grade crossings. From 2012-2014, there were 81 accidents, 15 deaths and 23 injuries at grade crossings, according to the Federal Railroad Administration. ###
03.02.2015	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that student submissions are now being accepted for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. “From the Hudson River School to the Dia:Beacon, the Hudson Valley is home to innovative artists with work displayed in museums throughout the world. In the last two years, nearly 100 artists have participated, so I look forward to seeing the creative and original artwork from our talented students in the Hudson Valley,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. The submission period for artwork will be held from Monday, March 2rd to Friday, April 17th. Art work and the Student Information and Release Form should be dropped off to our Newburgh Office located at 123 Grand Street in Newburgh, NY by April 17th. Entries can also be accepted via email to NY18.ArtCompetition@mail.house.gov. Please include both a photo of the entry and the Student Information and Release Form. The competition is open to high school students only. Exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. In order to choose the winning piece of artwork, Rep. Maloney will utilize both social media and the local Hudson Valley art community. Submissions will be posted on Rep. Maloney’s official Facebook fan page for a period of two weeks (April 20th to May 1st) where they will be voted on via the “like” button. In early May, all entries will be presented to a panel of local judges from the 18th district of New York at a reception for all participants, and they will determine a grand prize winner, winners for each medium and a Facebook Fan Favorite. The grand prize winning artwork will be displayed in the Capitol for one year and the winning student plus one guest will receive complimentary airfare to Washington, DC for a reception in June. You can view last year’s art competition entries here. More information for teachers and students is available on our website at https://seanmaloney.house.gov/services/art-competition. For any additional questions, please e-mail NY18.ArtCompetition@mail.house.gov or call the Newburgh office at 845-561-1259.
03.01.2015	ewburgh, N.Y. – Beginning in March, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney announced updated Satellite Office Hours in Port Jervis, Carmel, Middletown and Poughkeepsie. All five offices including Rep. Maloney’s Newburgh District Office allows Hudson Valley constituents to share any questions, comments or concerns with a constituent advocate, who is available to assist with any problems folks from the Hudson Valley may be having with a federal government agency, such as the Social Security Administration, IRS, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the Veterans Administration. “I’m here to work for my neighbors in the Hudson Valley, and our office is here to be their advocate and help cut through any bureaucratic red tape of the federal government,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “Too often people feel like no one is fighting for them, and while my district office in Newburgh is at the crossroads of the district, holding satellite office hours will allow my constituent advocates to be more accessible to my neighbors all across the Hudson Valley.” Maloney’s office has handled more than 2,700 cases, and so far, Maloney has helped return nearly $4 million to Hudson Valley taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits, tax refunds and other payments from the federal government. WHAT: Satellite Office Hours in Port Jervis WHEN: 4th Wednesday of the month from 10 AM to 4 PM WHERE: Port Jervis City Hall at 20 Hammond Street in Port Jervis, NY 12771 PHONE: (845) 561-1259 WHAT: Satellite Office Hours in Carmel WHEN 4th Thursday of the month from 9 AM to 2 PM WHERE: Putnam County Office Building at 40 Gleneida Avenue (3rd Floor) in Carmel, NY 10512 PHONE: (845) 561-1259 WHAT: Satellite Office Hours in Middletown WHEN: 1st Monday of the month from 9 AM to 4 PM WHERE: Office of New York State Assemblywoman Aileen Gunther at Middletown City Hall at 16 James Street (3rd Floor) in Middletown, NY 10940 PHONE: (845) 561-1259 WHAT: Satellite Office Hours in Poughkeepsie WHEN: 1st Thursday of the month from 9 AM to 5 PM WHERE: Office of New York State Assemblywoman Didi Barrett at 12 Raymond Avenue, Suite 105 in Poughkeepsie, NY 12603 PHONE: (845) 561-1259
02.25.2015	Newburgh, NY - Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) congratulated Randy Berry, who was appointed as the State Department's first ever LGBT Human Rights Envoy. “In more than 75 countries, people are persecuted and punished for who they are or who they love - we can't stand idly by. With Randy Berry's historic appointment, the United States can lead the world in promoting equality for all LGBT people," said Maloney. "I commend the President and the Secretary of State for this meaningful step to advance human rights worldwide.” Maloney is a cosponsor of H.R. 590, the International Human Rights Defense Act of 2015, which directs the State Department to make preventing and responding to discrimination and violence against the LGBT community a foreign policy priority and devise a global strategy to achieve those goals. The legislation also establishes a Special Envoy position in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor to coordinate that effort. ###
02.25.2015	Newburgh, NY – With Metro-North fares set to increase in March, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced the introduction of the Commuter Benefit Parity Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation, introduced by Rep. Peter King (NY-2), would establish parity between the parking and transit portions of the transportation fringe benefit by setting the monthly caps for both at $235/month. Transportation costs represent the second-largest household expense for American families, and without congressional action, the cost for those who use the transit benefit would have practically doubled in 2015, leaving families and commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden. “With Metro-North fares set to increase, Hudson Valley commuters need us to get to work and pass the bipartisan Commuter Parity Act, which would reinstate this critical tax break, support public transportations, and put money back in commuters’ pockets,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “Commuters who drive to work receive more favorable tax treatment of their transportation costs than commuters who rely on public transportation,” said Rep. King. “The Commuter Benefit Parity Act ensures that commuters receive the same level of tax relief regardless of whether they drive or use public transportation, like the Long Island Railroad. At no cost to the federal government, this legislation is a common-sense solution to ensuring that public transportation is a cost-effective choice.” “The transit benefit is a primary tool used by our members to provide commuters with options,” said ACT Executive Director Mark Wright. “It is a very effective tool, and parity is a top priority of ACT members. We thank Congressman King and the other co-sponsors of this legislation.” Joining Rep. Maloney and Rep. King in introducing the legislation is Congressman Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Congressman Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Congressman Robert Dold (R-IL), Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Congressman Daniel Lipinksi (D-IL). From 2009 until 2013, transit users and drivers were able to deduct the same amount, but the amount rolled back to the smaller amount for public transportation. During the past several years, members of Congress have been working together to bring permanent parity to transit currently allotted at $130 and parking pre-tax benefits currently allotted at $250. Permanent parity assists commuters in creating permanent changes to the way they commute, moving toward increased ridership of subways, trains and buses and reducing traffic congestion. ###
02.24.2015	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement on Metrolink accident in California: “No community should have to live through a tragedy like what occurred in Valhalla. Although we’re on the other side of the country, the Hudson Valley is thinking and praying for the families, first responders and victims of the MetroLink tragedy,” said Maloney. “Ninety-five percent of the hundreds of train-related deaths every year actually happen at highway-rail crossings; we must take urgent action to make commonsense improvements at grade crossings and implement modern technology to prevent these accidents.” Next week, the House is expected to consider H.R. 749: Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015. Earlier this month, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee passed two key provisions authored by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA) including significant investments in rail crossing improvements and positive train control. Specifically, PRRIA includes Rep. Maloney’s bill, H.R. 705, the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which reauthorizes the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR) as well as Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads. ###
02.23.2015	Newburgh, NY – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement after the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) released its preliminary report of the Metro North accident in Valhalla: “It's sad that it often takes tragedy to bring people together to focus on an issue, but NTSB’s preliminary report underscores the urgency for us to act on key safety measures. Ninety-five percent of deaths involving trains actually happen at highway-rail crossings, and with hundreds of deaths at grade crossings each year, we must look at commonsense improvements at grade crossings — especially at high-hazard crossings we know are dangerous. As the National Transportation Safety Board develops full safety recommendations, this Congress must provide additional resources to prevent deaths at rail intersections as well as open up existing sources of funding to speed the installation of life saving technology known as positive train control.” Earlier this month, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee passed two key provisions authored by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA) including significant investments in rail crossing improvements and positive train control. Specifically, PRRIA includes Rep. Maloney’s bill, H.R. 705, the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which reauthorizes the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR) as well as Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would make all positive train control installations "priority projects" as part of the $35 billion Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program that currently provides loans and loan guarantees to railroads.
02.11.2015	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) questioned the Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx on improving safety measures at rail grade crossing. Secretary Foxx made it clear that “there is not enough money in the system to help us [relocate and separate grade crossings] even on some of the highest danger areas,” and the Department of Transportation needs additional resources to “attack that problem as comprehensively as we need to.” In this year’s budget request, the Department of Transportation listed railroad intersections as one of the “three most pressing rail safety issues.” “We have to act on commonsense safety measures to ensure we never repeat last week’s horrific accident. Each year, there are thousands of collisions and hundreds of deaths at rail crossings, and our local and state governments should have the resources they need to upgrade safety devices as well as potentially relocate grade crossings in high density areas,” said Rep. Maloney. This week, Maloney also urged the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to include key rail safety measures in the upcoming Surface Transportation Reauthorization bill. In his letter, Maloney wrote, “I believe the Committee must work to address this issue in the surface transportation reauthorization by including a rail safety title, particularly one that includes robust funding for the Railway-Highways Crossing Program, or the Section 130 program. Our Committee has a responsibility to continue improving the rail safety infrastructure, particularly in areas of high risk such as intersections with motorists.” In New York, there are currently 5,304 grade crossings, and from 2012-2014, there were 81 accidents, 15 deaths and 23 injuries at grade crossings according to the Federal Railroad Administration Office of Safety. Last week, Maloney introduced the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, to help improve safety at grade crossings. H.R. 705 will reauthorize the Rail Line Relocation & Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR) at $100 million a year for the next four years.
02.04.2015	Washington – Following yesterday’s horrific Metro-North accident, Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) introduced the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, to help improve safety at grade crossings. H.R. 705 will reauthorize the Rail Line Relocation & Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR) at $100 million a year for the next four years. “This horrific accident hits close to home for me and my neighbors, so we must get answers for the families and communities whose lives have been upended by yet another tragedy,” said Maloney. “Safety is our first priority and unfortunately incidents at rail crossings are all too common in New York; that is why it is crucial that we invest in positive train control and improve safety at grade crossings immediately.” In New York, there are currently 5,304 grade crossings, and from 2012-2014, there were 81 accidents, 15 deaths and 23 injuries at grade crossings according to the Federal Railroad Administration Office of Safety. In the past, the RLR program allowed states and local governments to make lateral and vertical relocation of rail lines in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for train passengers, motorists and pedestrians. Authorization for this program expired in 2009, but even when authorized the program was minimally funded at $20 million to $35 million dollars. “Installing positive train control systems on commuter rail systems like Metro-North is the single most important step to reduce human error and save lives. Although positive train control is designed to prevent train to train collisions, installing this critical technology would also allow us to detect grade crossing malfunctions or objects on the tracks,” said Maloney. In addition, Maloney called for Congress to pass his legislation, the Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act, which would allow commuter and freight rail systems to apply for loans and loan guarantees to invest in positive train control systems for existing lines through the Federal Railroad Administration’s Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) Program. This existing program provides access to a $35 billion loan fund to finance the development of critical railroad infrastructure. Last September, Maloney’s bipartisan legislation passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA). Rep. Maloney, who represents parts of Westchester, serves as a Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
02.03.2015	Newburgh, NY - Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) issued the following statement on the Metro-North accident: "I'm simply heartbroken. All of us who ride Metro-North are moms, dads, brothers, and sisters and with every accident, a family is torn apart by an unspeakable tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with all the victims, families and first responders. "As MTA and NTSB looks into this horrific incident in the days to follow, we need to know how and why this happened and then take real steps to prevent another tragic collision from ever recurring.”
02.03.2015	Washington – During a hearing on the increased role of energy traveling by pipeline and railroads, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) questioned executives on the key vulnerability of rail lines to terrorist threats. “Our rail lines are vulnerable to terrorist threats, and it only takes one train to cause catastrophic destruction for an entire community and way of life. With billions of gallons of highly explosive crude oil barreling through the Hudson Valley, we must address potential security and safety gaps to protect our people,” said Maloney. In addition, Maloney urged the Department of Transportation (DOT) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to finalize these safety regulations in the next 30 days. Despite a congressionally imposed mandate of finalizing safety standards for transporting oil by rail by January 2015, the Department of Transportation announced it won’t issue the final rule until at least May 2015. The average review time for draft rules submitted to the Office of Management and Budget is 53 days. Rep. Maloney has continually pushed for the immediate release and implementation of these regulations that would begin phasing out the use of older, structurally insufficient and dangerous DOT-111 tank cars, issue new standards for tanker cars carrying highly hazardous materials, reduce operating speeds, and require notification for first responders. “The threat is too great to continue delaying basic safety standards that are critical to protect communities and our environment from terrorist threats or accidental derailments,” said Maloney. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Maloney has been a leader in Congress on financing the implementation of positive train control (PTC). The Fiscal Year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations bill authorizes a portion of Rep. Maloney’s Rail Safety Enforcement Act, which requires the Federal Railroad Administration to provide a progress report on the status of implementing positive train control on freight and passenger rail lines. In September, his bipartisan legislation passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA) that would have helped commuter rail lines like Metro-North fund and implement positive train control (PTC) systems.
02.02.2015	Washington – On the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following message commemorating Black History Month and the extraordinary accomplishments of African Americans. Rep. Maloney also voiced support for the passage of a new Voting Rights Act after last year’s Supreme Court decision to invalidate key portions of the original Voting Rights Act. Below are his remarks and a link to the video: Click here to watch video message. Here’s the transcript: “Hello, I’m Representative Sean Patrick Maloney. This February, I hope you will join me in celebrating Black History Month and the extraordinary accomplishments and contributions African Americans have made to our country. “This year is especially pertinent as it marks the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, signed into law in 1965. One year after the historic Civil Rights Act, this landmark piece of legislation afforded millions of Americans the opportunity to vote and cast a ballot free from racial discrimination, intimidation and injustice. Although we’ve made historic progress over the last 50 years, I never thought that I would have to tell my two little girls that after Martin Luther King Jr., Selma, Montgomery, and the March on Washington that we would still have bridges to cross. That once again our brothers, and sisters and neighbors would have to fight for their basic right to vote. “It was only last year that the Supreme Court decide to decades later to invalidate critical provisions of the Voting Rights Act - a shocking setback to the core principles of our very democracy. We can’t cannot pass up an opportunity to pass a new civil rights laws that protects all Americans – regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation or economic status. That’s why I couldn’t be more proud to announce that I was one of the very first to voice my support for the a modern Voting Rights Act ensuring that each and every American has the fundamental right to vote. “As we honor Black History Month and celebrate the tremendous progress our country has made towards equal rights, we must always remember that our job here is not done finished. Together we must fight until every American has equal rights, equal access to the ballot, and the opportunity to achieve the American Dream. Thank you.” ###
01.29.2015	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced his subcommittee assignments on both the House Agriculture Committee and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “In my first term, I hit the ground running on these committees by passing an historic Farm Bill and securing key local infrastructure investments, but we still have a lot of work to do to grow our local economy. Whether it’s making the Farm Bill work for our farmers, expanding Stewart Airport into a cargo facility or passing rail safety provisions, I look forward to working across the aisle to get results for the Hudson Valley,” said Maloney. On the Agriculture Committee, Rep. Maloney will serve on the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and the Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit. These subcommittees have jurisdiction over the implementation of the Farm Bill as well as numerous crops including fruits and vegetables, crop insurance, and commodity exchanges. On the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Maloney will serve on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, Subcommittee on Aviation and Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. These subcommittees have jurisdiction over highway and transit facilities, National Transportation Safety Board, aviation facilities like Stewart Airport, water infrastructure, and the Army Corps of Engineers.
01.27.2015	Washington – Within the first few days of the new Congress, the House of Representatives unanimously passed Representative Sean Patrick Maloney’s (NY-18) bipartisan Human Trafficking Prevention Act. Initially passed by the House in 2013 with bipartisan support, this legislation will help train Foreign Service Officers working overseas at US Embassies to stem the demand for trafficking and spot victims before they are trafficked into the United States. You can view Maloney’s remarks on the House Floor here. “The disgusting practice of modern day slavery is happening in our own backyard; we must do everything we can to stop human trafficking. This critical legislation combats human trafficking at its source by giving our frontline public servants the tools they need to spot potential victims and take action,” said Maloney. Although the federal government has a zero tolerance policy on human trafficking, Foreign Service Officers, who often have face-to-face contact with victims obtaining US visas, undergo minimal training to define, identify and recognize indicators of human trafficking or smuggling. A recent Inspector General report of the U.S. State Department issued multiple recommendations including creation of a distance learning course on trafficking-in-persons issues for embassy reporting officers, regional bureaus' trafficking-in -persons coordinators, and their superiors as well as requiring in person briefings for all ambassadors and deputy chiefs of mission before they depart for their posts. In 2013, Rep. Maloney also supported the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TPVA) of 2013 as part of the Violence Against Women Act. The TPVA previously expired in 2011 and would renew key federal anti-trafficking programs until 2017; provide for new partnerships with cooperating countries to protect children and prevent trafficking; add new protections for survivors of modern slavery; and provide prosecutors with new tools to go after the traffickers who exploit others. In recent years, there have been multiple sex and human trafficking rings broken up in the Hudson Valley. Last September, Maloney hosted the Hudson Valley Human Trafficking Resources Forum to bring together a panel of law enforcement and community organizations, including representatives of the FBI, U.S. Immigration Customs and Enforcement Homeland Security investigations unit, and the state attorney general’s office.
01.15.2015	Newburgh, NY – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Rep. Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) announced bipartisan legislation, the Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act, to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program, the key employment program to help assist, train and find jobs for veterans who have compensable service-connected disabilities. Supported by the Wounded Warrior Project (WWP) and VetsFirst, H.R. 356 would reduce unemployment among disabled veterans by requiring the Department of Veterans Affairs to reduce caseloads, increase enrollment in education programs, and implement a new training program for staff working with wounded warriors. “It's unacceptable that the brave men and women who sacrifice so much in service to our country are returning home from battle only to struggle to find a job. We must make these commonsense reforms to the VA’s key employment program to support these wounded warriors and ensure our highly skilled veterans secure employment upon their return to civilian life,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney. “The sacrifices of our nation’s disabled service members are simply unmatched. These sacrifices come at an extremely hard price to these individuals, which is why we must do everything we can to ensure the best access to our Veterans' assistance services. I’m proud to have helped introduce legislation that would make positive reforms to these programs, and help our Wounded Warriors get back into the workforce,” said Representative Markwayne Mullin. “Our disabled veterans deserve our utmost support when returning from combat. The changes to the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program proposed in this legislation will allow for a streamlined approach to training and educating our wounded warriors which will assist them in securing viable employment and allow them to successfully transition back to civilian life,” said New York State Senator Bill Larkin. “With military careers often cut short by life-altering injuries, it is particularly important that this generation of wounded warriors be afforded the tools, skills, resources, education, and support needed to find their new passion, secure employment, and develop fulfilling careers in ways that matter to them and their families. But, for a variety of reasons, the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation, and Employment Program, which is designed to give disabled veterans the help they need to gain success in the workforce, is too often failing them. WWP supports H.R. 356 which would direct VA to develop an action plan aimed at improving the delivery of effective vocational rehabilitation and employment services to wounded warriors – often critical to these warriors achieving economic empowerment, a key to successful transition and productive lives,” said Charlie Abell of the Wounded Warrior Project. “VA must be more responsive to the vocational rehabilitation needs of veterans living with significant disabilities, including PTSD and TBI. Requiring VA to better address workforce management issues and improve counselor training will lead to better employment outcomes for these veterans,” said Christine Golden of VetsFirst. As a recent GAO report identified, it often takes 6 years or more for veterans to achieve success in the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) program. According the Wounded Warrior Project’s most recent survey, the unemployment rate among wounded service members is 17.8%. In New York, the average veterans unemployment rate was at 8.2% throughout 2013.
01.07.2015	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) was officially sworn in today as a Member of the 114th Congress. First elected in 2012, this is Rep. Maloney’s second term representing New York’s 18th Congressional District. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to serve all the hardworking families in the Hudson Valley for another two years. Working across the aisle, we can achieve commonsense solutions to the challenges our families, businesses and neighbors face every day,” said Maloney. “I’m excited to get back to work growing our economy, investing in 21st century infrastructure, and fighting for our veterans and farmers.” In his first term, Rep. Maloney fought for major legislation introducing 10 pieces of legislation that were signed into law and 15 bills and amendments that passed the House. Rep. Maloney’s legislation included provisions to reform the crop insurance program for local farmers, implement passenger and commercial rail safety technology, reduce the backlog at the VA, and hold the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) accountable to ratepayers in the Hudson Valley. In his first term Rep. Maloney returned $3,197,408 to taxpayers who were owed payments from the government, held 55 town hall events, and secured 97 service medals for Hudson Valley veterans. Rep. Maloney was joined at the ceremonial swearing-in ceremony by his husband, Randy Florke. Rep. and Randy have three children together: Jesus, Daley, and Essie.
12.19.2014	Washington – Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released his 2014 Year End Annual Report, which highlights his legislative work, constituent services, district events, and correspondence. Even in one of the least productive Congresses in modern history, Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) worked across the aisle to deliver meaningful results for the Hudson Valley in his first term. Sean fought for major legislation to fix local problems with local solutions, introducing 10 pieces of legislation that were signed into law this Congress – a remarkable record for a freshman in the minority. All of these priorities came directly from Sean’s conversations with his neighbors in the Hudson Valley, and addresses issues like rail safety technology, dam safety, and our local agricultural economy. Sean also focused on local investments in the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area, U.S. Military Academy and Highland Falls School District. In addition, Sean helped deliver $250 million in disaster relief for the Hudson Valley and investments that created hundreds of jobs, rebuilt our communities, and got our neighbors back on their feet. To hear ideas and find solutions for problems in neighborhoods across the region, Sean held 55 town hall events – in person, online and by telephone and helped return $3.2 million to seniors, veterans and Hudson Valley families. Here are a few highlights of Sean’s first two years: By the Numbers: Getting Results for Local Solutions Sean has worked across the aisle and accumulated a record of results for Hudson Valley veterans, middle class families, and small businesses while in Congress. He’s had: 10 pieces of legislation signed into law 15 bills and amendments passed the House 35 bills and amendments authored 274 bills co-sponsored 1205 votes cast with 98% vote attendance record After listening to neighbors, community leaders, veterans, and farmers, Sean introduced dozens of bills - including 10 that were signed into law: The Dam Safety Act, included in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act. Signed into law in June 2014, the Dam Safety Act reauthorizes the National Dam Safety Program and provides infrastructure investment funds for states to use in conducting dam inspections, purchasing equipment, and developing Emergency Action Plans. The Creating Reliability for Our Producers (CROP) Act, included in the Farm Bill. Signed into law in February 2014, the Farm Bill, the best Farm Bill ever passed for the Hudson Valley, includes Rep. Maloney’s bipartisan, budget-neutral CROP Act, which will help protect the livelihoods of the small, diversified family farms we have in the Hudson Valley by reforming the insurance programs these farmers rely on and developing new and improved plans. Support for Farmers in Black Dirt Region. To address local flooding issues in important agricultural areas of Orange County, the Farm Bill, which was signed into law in February 2014, included language secured by Rep. Maloney to require the Secretary of Agriculture to work with producers whose operations contain muck soils like those in the Hudson Valley. FERC Accountability Act, included in the Fiscal Year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations Act. Signed into law in December 2014, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) will now be accountable to ratepayers in the Hudson Valley. FERC will be required to report quarterly on actions and costs to consumers related to the new capacity zone in New York’s Hudson Valley. Rail Safety Enforcement Act, included in the Fiscal Year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations Act. Signed into law in December 2014, the Federal Railroad Administration will now be required to review current implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC), which is a technology that helps control the speed of trains. In September, the House Transportation Committee also passed Rep. Maloney’s Commuter Rail Passenger Safety Act which enables railroads to make use of the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program, an existing $35 billion loan program, in order to implement Positive Train Control (PTC) technology. Renaming Monroe Post Office. Signed into law in December 2014, the post office in Monroe, NY will be renamed to honor a local hero, Gregg Wenzel, who lost his life in service to his country. This is the first Post Office in the nation to honor a fallen officer of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Critical Support for Highland Falls Schools, included in the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Expected to be signed into law, this fixes an artificial cap that prevented Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery School District from getting its full share of aid and was shortchanging the school district by approximately $2 million a year. Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area, included in the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Expected to be signed into law, the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area, key to regional tourism, will continue operating and can continue to access matching federal funding for projects in the area. The Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act, included in the VA Expiring Authorities Extension Act of 2013. Signed into law in December 2013, the Disabled Veterans Red Tape Reduction Act enables the VA to use outside physicians to conduct medical disability exams in order to help alleviate the current backlog at the VA. Military Construction Investment for Army Reserve Center and Barracks at West Point. As part of both the 2014 and 2015 Appropriations Acts, this bill invests $100 million in construction of new cadet barracks at West Point and builds a new training center for the Army Reserve in Bullville, NY. 5 additional bills, provisions, and amendments authored by Sean have passed the House: Blocking the New Hudson Valley Capacity Zone. In July 2014, the House overwhelmingly passed Rep. Maloney’s unprecedented legislation to prohibit funds from being used to enforce the Hudson Valley’s new capacity zone, which could raise electrical rates on consumers. Honor Guardsmen and Reservists Act. Honoring a fallen reservist from Hopewell Junction, the House of Representatives passed legislation in May 2014 to enable a memorial headstone or marker to be purchased from the VA for Guard or Reserve members who served for at least 6 years. Human Trafficking Prevention Act. Passed in July 2014, this legislation would expand new minimum training procedures for high-ranking Foreign Service Officers and government personnel in order to curb human trafficking at its source before people are trafficked across international borders into the US. Increased Investments for Dam Inspections. Separate of the Dam Safety Act, the House passed higher funding levels for the Dam Safety Act GAO report for CFTC Reauthorization. Passed in the House in June 2014, this important amendment ensures regulators have the funding that they need to safeguard the viability of the American financial system and hold bad actors accountable. By the Numbers: Constituent Services Sean promised to fight for folks in the Hudson Valley, and made it a top priority to be accessible and hold the federal government accountable. In addition to having his District Office in Newburgh, Sean has satellite offices in Port Jervis, Poughkeepsie, Carmel and Middletown. As part of his “Speak with Sean” series, Rep. Maloney has held 55 “Speak with Sean” town halls where neighbors could share any questions and comments in person. $3,197,408.36 returned to taxpayers who were owed Social Security checks, veterans’ compensation, tax refunds, or other payments from the government 2,322 individuals assisted with cases involving Social Security, Medicare, IRS, and the Veterans Administration 97 service medals for military heroes including 1 Congressional Gold Medal, 1 Legion of Merit, 4 Bronze Stars, and 3 Purple Hearts for veterans from the Hudson Valley 33 “Speak with Sean” town halls and neighborhood office hours in the Hudson Valley 22 online and telephone town halls that included 108,000 households throughout the Hudson Valley 121,062 constituent letters answered Dozens of events including four Veterans Resources Fairs, Made in New York Tour, Small Business Workshop, Congressional Field Hearing on comprehensive immigration reform, children’s safety workshop, law enforcement resources forum, six medal presentation ceremonies for veterans, main street tours in Wappingers Falls, Goshen, Middletown, Mahopac, and Highland Falls, veterans jobs roundtable with Senator Greg Ball, EPA Superfund tour with EPA Administrator Judith Enck, agriculture forum in Warwick, Small Business Disaster Relief Workshop and many other events. By the Numbers: Fighting for Hudson Valley Investments Rep. Maloney has worked closely with local and state officials to secure key federal investments. These bipartisan partnerships have helped deliver much-needed investments to grow our economy, create jobs, improve our infrastructure, fight crime and substance abuse, and reduce tolls and fees. A few highlights of federal investments in the Hudson Valley that Rep. Maloney has successfully fought for include: $250,000,000 in disaster aid from Irene, Lee and Sandy by working with 48 local communities including $45,322,000 to strengthen 9 flood-prone bridges $1.6 billion loan for the new Tappan Zee bridge $2,400,000 for 15 new firefighters in Newburgh $823,413 for life saving equipment for 6 local fire departments $500,000 for four new police officers in Newburgh $2,900,000 for expanding facilities for Hudson Valley Lighting $60,000 for new breathing equipment for Goshen Fire Department $4,817,666 to support homeless veterans through WestCOP and Hudson River Housing $2,200,000 for resurfacing Route 121 in Bedford $2,400,000 for resurfacing Route 138 in Lewisboro $2,611,029 for improving roads and safety along Route 302 in Crawford $968,792 for Greater Hudson Valley Family Health Center $1,336,000 for the Town of Wallkill pedestrian/bicycle safety enhancements $19,577,702 for runway rehabilitation and improvements at Stewart Airport, Dutchess Airport, and Orange County Airport $1,250,000 for six youth anti-substance abuse initiatives $745,178 for pedestrian/bicycle enhancements in Port Jervis $2,100,000 for resurfacing Route 120 in Mt. Kisco $146,799 for early childhood education at the Mid-Hudson Children’s Museum $100,000 for Farm-to-School program in Orange County $2,300,000 for lead abatement in Orange County $60,000 for the Hudson Valley Regional Council to develop a comprehensive economic development plan $65,000 for Storm Kings Arts Center for arts/outreach improvements You can download a full copy of Rep. Maloney's End of Congress Report here.
12.16.2014	Newburgh, NY – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) released the following statement today in celebration of the first night of Hanukkah, which begins on the evening of December 16th: “As families across the Hudson Valley gather together to observe the eight nights of Hanukkah, we celebrate the immense resiliency and strength of spirit of the Jewish people. During the Jewish Festival of Lights, let us give thanks for the blessings we enjoy, remain mindful of those still suffering and work together towards a brighter future for all New Yorkers. My family and I wish all a Happy Hanukkah.”
12.16.2014	Washington – Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced that Congress has passed the third and final installment for construction of new barracks at the United States Military Academy at West Point, which began construction in November 2013. The Fiscal Year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Cadets are currently living in overcrowded and outdated facilities, some dating back to 1895. “This important investment at the U.S. Military Academy is not only the right thing to do for our cadets, but it creates good jobs for my neighbors and grows our local economy. West Point has been educating and training our nation’s next generation of military leaders since 1802, and many of the facilities there are nearly as old,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. Specifically, this legislation includes $58 million for construction barracks at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Last week, Maloney announced that the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), also headed to the President’s desk, includes the authorization of this final installment. Rep. Maloney previously secured partial funding for this $192 million project, which began construction in November 2013.
