04.11.2019	04.11.19 Rounds, Merkley Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Family Leave for DOD Employees WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) introduced bipartisan legislation to improve family and medical leave for Department of Defense (DoD) employees by simplifying and expanding the agency’s leave bank. Currently, DoD allows individual civilian employees to donate earned annual leave to specific individual colleagues experiencing a serious family or medical situation requiring additional leave. But the current informal process of identifying and matching up leave donors with recipients can be inefficient, and if civilian employees do not proactively identify and donate this leave, they often forfeit earned annual leave when they either take a new job outside the Department or when they have excess “use it or lose it” leave that will not roll over to the next calendar year. This legislation would automatically move any “use it or lose it” annual leave that was forfeited from civilian DoD employees into a common pool of family and medical leave to benefit employees after the birth or adoption of a child, serious illness of an immediate family member, or a worker’s own medical condition. “Under our legislation, annual leave days that are forfeited by Department of Defense employees will be pooled, so employees who need extra time off for family or medical reasons can use additional leave hours to supplement their own,” said Rounds. “A ‘leave bank’ can help employees who have recently given birth or adopted a child, who are taking care of a sick family member or who are facing illness themselves and don’t have enough leave time to cover the hours they need to take off. This is common sense policy, and I look forward to working with Sen. Merkley and our colleagues in the Senate to move it forward.” “Our Department of Defense employees work hard to keep our nation safe,” said Merkley. “As a former Pentagon employee myself, I know that these jobs are tough and high-stakes. It’s good for these employees and good for our nation if workers have the paid leave they need to take care of themselves and take care of their families during important moments in their lives. Streamlining and expanding the leave bank shows how common sense and the common good can go hand-in-hand.” Each year, civilian Department of Defense employees accrue between 104 and 208 hours of paid annual leave. If they have not used all their annual leave in a given year, they may carry over up to 240 hours to the following year. Anything above 240 hours is considered “use it or lose it” and is forfeited if the employee does not use it by the end of that year. Merkley and Rounds’ legislation would make certain that instead of going to waste, this additional leave time instead goes into the agency’s leave bank so that it is available as paid family or medical leave for the Department of Defense employees who need it most. Currently, federal workers as a group are not guaranteed any paid family or medical leave. The Merkley-Rounds legislation would make certain that DoD workers have more paid leave available during these critical moments, while the entire federal government works towards a long-term solution that would guarantee full family and medical leave coverage for its employees. The Merkley-Rounds legislation is supported by the National Partnership for Women & Families, the American Federal of Government Employees (AFGE), and the National Treasury Employees Union. ###
04.10.2019	04.10.19 Rounds, Shaheen Reintroduce Bipartisan Bill to Assist Veterans & Service Members Exposed to PFAS Contaminants WASHINGTON –U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) today reintroduced the PFAS Registry Act, legislation that would create a national database for service members and veterans experiencing health problems possibly due to contamination from per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). “While the military works to clean up PFAS contamination on bases around the country, it’s important that veterans, service members and their families have access to the most up-to-date information on the effects of PFAS exposure and treatment options,” said Senator Rounds. “I’m pleased to partner with Sen. Shaheen again this Congress on legislation to create a PFAS Registry. As we learn more about PFAS chemicals, it’s important those who may have been exposed to them have all the tools available to fully understand the effects of PFAS contamination. Our bill is an important first step to enable them to gain that understanding.” PFAS chemicals, like perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), have emerged as a widespread contaminant to the drinking water sources of military bases across the country due to their use in firefighting foam used by the Armed Services. This bipartisan bill would allow military personnel and veterans to receive updates on recent scientific developments on the effects of PFAS exposure, availability of possible treatment options, and information on what resources may be available to address their health concerns. ###
04.09.2019	04.09.19 Rounds Meets with David Bernhardt, President’s Nominee to be Interior Secretary Bernhardt currently serves as Acting Secretary of the Department of the Interior WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today met with David Bernhardt, President Trump’s nominee to be Secretary of the Department of the Interior. Bernhardt has been serving as Acting Secretary of the Department of the Interior since January 2019. He was confirmed by the Senate to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior in 2017. “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with Acting Secretary Bernhardt prior to the Senate vote on his confirmation to be Secretary of the Interior,” said Rounds. “Like many of us in South Dakota, Mr. Bernhardt is an avid hunter and angler and has great respect for our natural resources. We discussed the need to implement the Landowner Conservation Education program, an amendment I offered that was included in the Natural Resources Management Act earlier this year. I also thanked him for his agency’s timely response to concerns from South Dakotans about the Fish and Wildlife Service’s prescribed burn policy, which is impacting pheasant nesting and hunting in northeastern South Dakota. I look forward to continue working with him on matters important to South Dakota after he is confirmed.” ###
04.04.2019	04.04.19 Rounds, Lankford Introduce Legislation to Prohibit Medical Providers from Performing Dismemberment Abortions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and James Lankford (R-Okla.) today introduced the Dismemberment Abortion Ban Act of 2019. This legislation would prohibit physicians from performing dismemberment abortions. It would impose a criminal fine, up to two years in prison, or both for individuals who perform this type of abortion. “Dismemberment abortions are among the most brutal methods of abortion, and they account for roughly 90 percent of second trimester abortions,” said Rounds. “Unborn children can feel pain during this stage of the pregnancy, starting at 20 weeks. It is unconscionable to legally allow physicians to dismember unborn children, some of whom are able to feel pain. We have a responsibility to defend the dignity of all life, from conception to natural death. I thank Sen. Lankford for his leadership on this issue over the years, and I’m happy to partner with him this Congress to advance our legislation that would make dismemberment abortions illegal.” “Oklahomans and our nation are divided on the issue of when life begins, but most Oklahomans know by now that I believe life begins at conception and that I believe each child in the womb is created in the image of God and has value and worth,” said Lankford. “Despite our differences on the issue of life, because of technological advancements, we clearly know now that pre-born children feel pain. Surely we can all agree that dismantling a child in the womb during a late-term abortion is inhumane and is not reflective of American values. I am once again proud to sponsor this legislation that stands firmly against this tragic practice, and I remain committed to ensuring we respect the lives of mothers but also the lives of children in the womb.” A dismemberment abortion, also called a “dilation and evacuation” abortion, is the most commonly used abortion method in second trimester abortions (week 13 to week 28 of pregnancy). In a dismemberment abortion, an unborn child is dismembered and extracted, one piece at a time. The child can also remain intact until he or she is crushed through the use of clamps, grasping forceps, tongs, scissors or other similar instruments. The Dismemberment Abortion Ban Act of 2019 allows the performance of a dismemberment abortion if necessary to save a mother’s life. It does not limit abortions performed in cases of rape or incest, if performed by a method other than dismemberment abortion. This bill prohibits the prosecution of women upon whom a dismemberment abortion is performed. Additional cosponsors include Sens. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Tim Scott (R-S.C.) and John Thune (R-S.D.). Similar legislation, the Saving Children Act, was introduced in the House of Representatives this year by Rep. Debbie Lesko (R-Ariz.-08). ###
04.03.2019	04.03.19 Rounds, Thune Reintroduce Bill to Protect Tribal Veterans' Health Care WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today reintroduced the Tribal Veterans Health Care Enhancement Act, legislation that would improve tribal veterans’ access to health care. The bill, which was first introduced in the 114th Congress and again in the 115th Congress, would allow the Indian Health Service (IHS) to cover copay costs for tribal veterans who are referred by IHS to the Veterans Health Administration (VA) for services that are unavailable at IHS facilities. These referrals often require a copay that is currently the responsibility of the veteran. The bill would also require IHS and VA, in consultation with Indian tribes, to outline an implementation plan through a memorandum of understanding. “Tribal veterans should not be liable for additional costs such as copays they may be asked to pay when they are referred to a VA facility for healthcare by the Indian Health Service,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased to join Sen. Thune to reintroduce legislation this Congress that would require IHS to cover the cost of copays for tribal veterans seeking care at a VA facility. I look forward to working with our colleagues to move this commonsense legislation forward.” The Rounds-Thune bill would: Allow for IHS to pay for veterans’ copayments for services rendered at a VA facility, pursuant to an IHS referral; Require IHS and VA to enter into a memorandum of understanding to provide for such payment; and Require a report within 90 days of enactment with respect to: o The number, by state, of eligible Native American veterans utilizing VA medical facilities; o The number of referrals, by state, received annually from IHS to the VA from 2013 to 2018; and o Update on efforts at IHS and VA to streamline care for eligible Native American veterans who receive care at both IHS and VA, including changes required under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act and any barriers to achieve efficiencies. ###
04.03.2019	04.03.19 Rounds Cosponsors Bill to Block Illegal Aliens with Criminal Gang Ties from Entering the United States WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) cosponsored Singh’s Law, legislation that would bar aliens associated with a criminal gang and convicted of a crime from entering the United States. The legislation was introduced earlier this year by Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.). “Foreign criminals and known gang members who pose a threat to South Dakota families should not be allowed into the United States,” said Rounds. “This legislation closes loopholes and gives law enforcement officials additional tools and authority to keep dangerous aliens out of our country.” Under this legislation, aliens with gang associations also would be disqualified from receiving asylum, temporary protected status, special immigrant juvenile visas, and other forms of relief from removal. Additionally, the bill would grant the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to designate criminal gangs under the Immigration and Nationality Act and create a $200 million federal grant to law-enforcement agencies to combat criminal gangs. The bill is named in honor of Corporal Ronil Singh, a police officer in Newman, California who was killed on December 26, 2018. An illegal immigrant with known gang affiliations and two prior DUI arrests has been charged with murdering Corporal Singh. Several illegal immigrants have been charged with helping Corporal Singh's alleged killer try to flee the country. Singh's Law provides U.S. law-enforcement agencies with additional tools to combat criminal gangs operating in the United States and makes sure that illegal aliens with gang ties and prior criminal convictions are promptly removed from the country. ###
04.02.2019	04.02.19 Rounds Accepting Fall 2019 Internship Applications **Deadline to apply is April 30, 2019** WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for fall 2019. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is April 30, 2019. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than April 30, 2019. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Kari Weller at kari_weller@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Kari Weller at (605) 336-0486. ###
04.02.2019	04.02.19 Sioux Falls Student Receives Fully Qualified Offer of Appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Aiden Diedrich was nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced Aiden Diedrich, a student at O’Gorman High School in Sioux Falls, has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy which he has accepted. Diedrich is the son of Cory and Janey Diedrich of Sioux Falls. “I was proud to nominate Aiden to the Air Force Academy and I congratulate him on his offer of appointment,” said Rounds. “Aiden is an Eagle Scout, a National Honor Society member, a pianist and a state champion powerlifter who recently competed against the country’s best high school powerlifters in the 2019 national championships, just to name a few of his achievements. But he is also a young man with a strong desire to serve his country in the military, just as his great-grandfather did during World War I. I wish Aiden all the best at the Air Force Academy.” “I am extremely grateful for the opportunity that Senator Rounds and the United States Air Force Academy has granted to me,” said Diedrich. “I am excited for the challenges ahead and to see what my future in serving the United States has in store for me.” Each year, Sen. Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
03.27.2019	03.27.19 Ellsworth Air Force Base to Welcome B-21 Training and Operational Squadron to Its Fleet WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.), U.S. Rep. Dusty Johnson (R-S.D.), and Gov. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today issued the following statements after the U.S. Air Force announced that Ellsworth Air Force Base has officially been selected to receive the new B-21 training and operational squadron, which means it will be the first of three bases nationwide to host the B-21 bomber in its fleet. Infrastructure spending will begin in fiscal year 2021. “Today’s announcement that Ellsworth Air Force Base will be home to the B-21 Formal Training Unit and be the first base to receive an operational squadron of B-21 Raider bombers is great news for South Dakota and for our national defense,” said Rounds. “It reaffirms the vital role Ellsworth will play in our defense strategy for years to come. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue working closely with the Air Force and the Ellsworth community to assure a seamless process.” ###
03.27.2019	03.27.19 Rounds, Manchin Introduce Bill to Protect Rural Veterans’ Access to Healthcare Legislation would prevent a VA-like BRAC that could put the future of the Hot Springs VA Campus in Jeopardy WASHINGTON-- U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joe Manchin (D-W. Va.), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced the Elimination of the VA Asset and Infrastructure Review (AIR) Commission of 2019 Act. If passed, this bill will eliminate the commission that is tasked with finding facilities that should be consolidated or realigned. This bill is necessary because rural healthcare is essential to many South Dakotans and the AIR Commission threatens the longevity of rural VA hospitals across the country. The AIR Act originally passed into law as a part of the 2018 Mission Act, despite the Senators’ objections. “The Department of Veterans Affairs is long overdue for reforms, and I support VA Secretary Wilkie’s efforts to streamline processes to reduce the red tape veterans have to go through,” said Rounds. “However, I do not support the creation of a ‘BRAC-like’ commission that seeks out facilities to close down—with no input from Congress. In fact, it’s part of the reason I voted against the VA MISSION Act in the first place. In South Dakota, many of our veterans live in rural areas and the facilities they go to need to be improved, not closed down entirely. Our legislation would eliminate the commission so facilities like the Hot Springs Hospital can continue to care for our region’s rural veterans. I’m pleased to partner with Sen. Manchin on this issue, and I look forward to working with our colleagues in the Senate and our state’s veterans and Veteran Service Organizations to move it forward.” Without this bill, the AIR Act would create a 9 member commission tasked with conducting a comprehensive review of VA facilities and identifying where investments should be made as well as where facilities should be consolidated, realigned, exchanged, out leased, replaced, sold or disposed. In the early 2000s, the last time there was an asset review, the CARES Commission recommended closing the acute inpatient hospital beds and contracting services for acute care for the Beckley VA Medical Center. ###
03.20.2019	03.20.19 Rounds Receives 100 Percent Rating for Pro-Life, Pro-Family Voting Record Family Research Council Action Honors Rounds with ‘True Blue’ Award PIERRE —U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he received the Family Research Council (FRC) Action’s ‘True Blue’ award for his 100 percent rating to protect life and defend family values in the second session of the 115th Congress. "We thank Sen. Rounds for voting to defend and advance faith, family, and freedom,” said Family Research Council Action President Tony Perkins. “As a 'True Blue Member' he voted 100 percent on FRC Action's Scorecard including to protect unborn babies, defund the individual mandate in D.C., and to confirm solidly pro-life and pro-family nominees to key positions in the government. "Sen. Rounds deserves praise for his unwavering commitment to stand for life, family, marriage, and religious liberty. South Dakotans should be encouraged to know that they have a Member of Congress such as Sen. Rounds who has come alongside other members and our president to begin the work of rebuilding our nation, and protecting the very values that made America great," concluded Perkins. “Throughout my time in public service, protecting life, family values and religious freedom has been a top priority,” said Rounds. “I thank Family Research Council Action for this award and look forward to continuing our work in advancing these important values.” The Family Research Council Action seeks to educate elected officials on behalf of faith, family and freedom. View the complete scorecard here. ###
03.18.2019	03.18.19 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Hearing Protection Act Measure would allow sportsmen to have better access to hearing protection equipment for recreational gun use PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), joined Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) and 10 other senators to introduce the Hearing Protection Act (HPA) in the Senate. “Our commonsense legislation would help protect hearing by eliminating red tape for those seeking to own a firearm suppressor,” said Rounds. “Suppressors have nothing to do with whether guns are ‘silent’ or ‘dangerous’ – they are simply a tool to help protect the hearing of sportsmen.” On average, suppressors diminish the noise of a gunshot by 20-35 decibels, roughly the same sound reduction provided by earplugs or earmuffs. By further comparison, the most effective suppressors on the market can only reduce the peak sound level of a gunshot to around 110-120 decibels. According to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, that is as loud as a jackhammer (110 dB) or an ambulance siren (120 dB). Currently regulated under the National Firearms Act (NFA), suppressors are subject to additional regulatory burdens. The HPA would reclassify suppressors to regulate them like traditional firearms. It would remove suppressors from regulation under the NFA, and replace the overly-burdensome federal transfer process with an instantaneous National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) background check, making the purchasing and transfer process for suppressors equal to that as for a rifle or shotgun. The HPA would not change any laws in states that already prevent suppressors, nor does it get rid of the requirement of a background check. HPA is supported by the National Shooting Sports Foundation, the American Suppressor Association, National Assembly of Sportsmen’s Caucus, Gun Owners of America, and the National Rifle Association. In addition to Rounds and Crapo, this measure is cosponsored by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.). ###
03.13.2019	03.13.19 Rounds’ Statement on Neil Fulton Being Named Dean of USD School of Law Fulton previously served as then-Governor Rounds’ chief of staff WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after the University of South Dakota (USD) announced Neil Fulton was selected as dean of the USD School of Law. “I congratulate Neil on being named dean of the USD School of Law,” said Rounds. “I worked closely with Neil when he served as my chief of staff in the governor’s office, and I always valued his professionalism, strong work ethic and leadership. Since 2010, he has served as the Federal Public Defender for North Dakota and South Dakota on the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. USD made an excellent choice in selecting Neil to be the dean of the law school, and I wish him and his family all the best.” Fulton served as Rounds’ chief of staff from 2007-2010. USD’s announcement can be found here. ###
03.12.2019	03.12.19 Rounds Statement on EPA’s Proposed Rule on E-15 Waiver WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), today issued the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule to allow year-round sales of E-15: “I thank Administrator Wheeler and President Trump for moving forward with their pledge to allow year-round sales of E-15 ahead of this year’s summer driving season. This could result in approximately 700 million gallons of additional ethanol sold annually, or 280 million bushels of corn. As South Dakotans know, corn and corn ethanol production are vital components of our economy. The corn ethanol industry supports thousands of jobs in our state and contributes a significant amount of revenue to our local communities. Year-round sales of E-15 would be a huge win for our state and I look forward to closely reviewing the full proposal to make certain this rule is a net positive for agriculture, consistent with the Congressional intent of the RFS.” E-15 is 15 percent ethanol blended with 85 percent gasoline. The proposed rule would allow E-15 to be sold year-round without additional Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) control, rather than just eight months out of the year. The proposed rule also makes reforms to the renewable identification compliance (RIN) system. Additional details of the proposal can be found on EPA’s website HERE.
03.12.2019	03.12.19 Sioux Falls Student Receives Offer of Appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Jack Elliott was nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Jack Elliott, a student at Lincoln High School in Sioux Falls, has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, which he intends to accept. Elliott is the son of Keith and Kim Elliott of Sioux Falls. “I congratulate Jack on his offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy,” said Rounds. “Jack is a skilled athlete, winning multiple State AA Boys Cross Country titles. He’ll be a member of the Track and Cross Country Teams for the U.S. Naval Academy, where his leadership and athletic abilities will shine. We thank him for his desire to serve our nation and wish him all the best.” “I am grateful for the Naval Academy appointment and I am looking forward to the challenge ahead of me,” said Elliott. “I can’t think of a better place to develop myself academically, athletically, and as a person than at the academy. The academy appointment fulfills my dream of competing at the Division I level and also provides a first class education and career opportunity.” Each year, Sen. Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
03.07.2019	03.07.19 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Protect Veterans’ Economic Security Bipartisan reform amends current bankruptcy law to better support veterans and their families experiencing financial hardship WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) to introduce the bipartisan Honoring American Veterans in Extreme Need (HAVEN) Act (S. 679). This legislation would protect the economic security and well-being of veterans and their families who rely on disability benefits and may be experiencing financial hardship. “The men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America make incredible sacrifices to protect and defend our freedoms,” said Rounds. “Following their service, they should not be forced to use their disability benefits to pay off bankruptcy creditors. Our legislation honors their service to our country by safeguarding veterans’ disability benefits.” Under current bankruptcy law, disability benefits paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Defense (DoD) are included in the calculation of a debtor’s disposable income, increasing the portion of the debtor’s income that is subject to the reach of creditors. By contrast, bankruptcy law explicitly exempts Social Security disability benefits from this calculation. To remove this unequal treatment among various disability benefits, the HAVEN Act would exclude VA and DoD disability payments made to veterans or their dependent survivors from the monthly income calculation used for bankruptcy means tests. The HAVEN Act complements recent congressional efforts to combat service member and veteran mental health issues, addiction, suicide, poverty and homelessness – all of which are exacerbated by financial hardship. It is supported by the American Bankruptcy Institute, American College of Bankruptcy, The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Wounded Warrior Project, Association of the United States Army, Association of the United States Navy, Retired Enlisted Association, Society of Military Widows, Veterans for Common Sense and the U.S Army Warrant Officers Association. In addition to Sen. Rounds, this legislation is cosponsored by Sens. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Doug Jones (D-Ala.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.). ##
03.06.2019	03.06.19 Rounds, Heinrich Lead Effort to Repeal Cadillac Tax on Middle-Class Health Benefits Senators introduce bipartisan legislation to help address the rising cost of health care by repealing the 40 percent excise tax, known as the “Cadillac Tax,” in the Affordable Care Act WASHINGTON—U.S Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) today introduced bipartisan legislation to repeal a provision in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) known as the “Cadillac Tax,” which taxes high-cost health insurance plans and impacts middle-class health benefits. “The bill we introduced today is a step toward repealing another negative provision of the Affordable Care Act: the Cadillac Tax,” said Rounds. “If implemented, the Cadillac Tax would impose a 40 percent tax on certain employer-sponsored health care plans. This would dramatically increase the costs of healthcare for South Dakota families. The Cadillac Tax is currently scheduled to go into effect in 2022, and unless we’re able to repeal it, millions of middle-class families across the country will be impacted. I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues in Congress to advance this bipartisan legislation to fully repeal the Cadillac Tax.” In the 115th Congress, more than 300 Members of Congress from both parties cosponsored legislation to repeal the 40 percent tax. Although the tax was originally a provision in the Affordable Care Act, implementation has been delayed numerous times by bipartisan coalitions in Congress, most recently to 2022. Beginning in 2022, the “Cadillac Tax” would impact employers and families whose health insurance plans cost more than $11,100 for an individual, and $29,750 for family coverage. The legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Bob Casey (D-Pa.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio). U.S. Representatives Joe Courtney (D-Conn.) and Mike Kelly (R-Penn.) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. ### Related Files Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act 2019.pdf
03.06.2019	03.06.19 Rounds, Harris, Tillis, Pingree Lead Bipartisan, Bicameral Letter Urging Administration Increase the Number of Temporary, Non-Immigrant H-2B Workers for 2019 Current number of H-2B visas fails to adequately meet our nation’s temporary workforce needs WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and U.S. Reps. Andy Harris (R-M.D.) and Chellie Pingree (D-Maine) today led a bipartisan, bicameral letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen urging the administration to immediately increase the statutory cap of H-2B visas for fiscal year 2019 as authorized by the recent appropriations package (Pub. L. 116-6). The appropriations package signed into law last month authorizes the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, to release up to approximately 69,320 additional H-2B visas for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2019. “Given the near historic low unemployment rate, the constant oversubscription to the program and its importance to our local economies, we strongly urge you to use the discretion afforded your office in the most recent appropriations bill to release, without delay and to the greatest extent allowed by law, additional H-2B visas sufficient to meet the certified demand of our seasonal employers,” they wrote. “If significant H-2B cap relief is not provided, there will be severe consequences for seasonal businesses and our economy generally.” The letter was signed by 138 Members of Congress, including: U.S. Sens. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Thomas Carper (D-Del.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Doug Jones (D-Ala.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Rob Portman (R-OH), James Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), John Thune (R-S.D.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Todd Young (R-Ind.) and U.S. Reps. Ralph Abraham (R-La.), Kelly Armstrong (R-N.D.), Cindy Axne (D-IA), Don Bacon (R-Neb.), Andy Barr (R-Ky.), Jack Bergman (R-Mich.), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), Mike Bost (R-Ill.), Anthony Brindisi (D-N.Y.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), Larry Bucshon (R-Ind.), John Carter (R-TX), Matt Cartwright (D-Pa.), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Emmanuel Cleaver (D-Kan.), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), Mike Conaway (R-TX), Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.), Jason Crow (D-Colo.), Henry Cuellar (R-TX), Joe Cunningham (D-S.C.), Sharice Davids (D-Kan.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Tom Emmer (R-Minn.), Ron Estes (R-Kan.), Bill Flores (R-TX), Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Anthony Gonzalez (R-OH), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.), Kay Granger (R-TX), Garret Graves (R-La.), Glenn Grothman (R-Wis.), Morgan Griffith (R-Va.), Michael Guest (R-Miss.), Brett Guthrie (R-Ky.), Andy Harris (R-Md.), Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), Jody Hice (R-Ga.), Clay Higgins (R-La.), French Hill (R-Ark.), Bill Huizenga (R-Mich.), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Dusty Johnson (R-S.D.), David Joyce (R-OH), David William Keating (D-Mass.), Trent Kelly (R-Miss.), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), Ann Kuster (D-N.H.), Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Rick Larsen (D-Wash.), Bob Latta (R-OH), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Tom Malinowski (D-N.J.), Sean Maloney (D-N.Y.), Roger Marshall (R-Kan.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), James McGovern (D-Mass.), Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), David McKinley (R-W.Va.), Paul Mitchell (R-Mich.), John Moolenaar (R-Mich.), Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.), Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.), Ralph Norman (R-S.C.), Ed Perlmutter (D-Colo.), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Tom Reed (R-N.Y.), Guy Reschenthaler (R-Pa.), Tom Rice (R-S.C.), Denver Riggleman (R-Va.), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.), David Schweikert (R-Ariz.), John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Mike Simpson (R-ID), Elissa Slotkin (D-Mich.), Pete Stauber (R-Minn.), Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), Chris Stewart (R-UT), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Scott Tipton (R-Colo.), Michael Turner (R-OH), Lauren Underwood (D-Ill.), Jefferson Van Drew (D-N.J.), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Ann Wagner (R-Mo.),Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), Michael Waltz (R-Fla.), Steve Watkins (R-Kan.), Randy Weber (R-TX), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.), Jennifer Wexton (D-Va.), Roger Williams (R-TX), Robert Wittman (R-Va.), Rob Woodall (R-Ga.), Ted Yoho (R-Fla.), Don Young (R-AK), and Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.) Important Facts About The H-2B Visa Program H-2B workers support American jobs and small businesses. Every H-2B worker creates or sustains 4.64 American jobs on average according to a study conducted by the American Enterprise Institute. As required by law, employers must first make a concerted effort to hire American workers to fill open positions. H-2B visas fill needs for American small businesses when there are not enough able and willing American workers to fill the temporary, seasonal positions. Employers often have to spend more money to hire temporary H-2B workers, who are paid a prevailing wage that is set by the U.S. Department of Labor. Full text of the letter: Dear Secretary Nielsen, As you know, H. J. Res. 31 –Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Pub. L. 116-6), signed into law on February 15th, 2019, confers authority to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to, in her discretion and in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, release up to approximately 69,320 additional temporary, non-immigrant H-2B visas in excess of the statutory annual cap of 66,000. According to Department of Labor (DOL) data, the demand for temporary, seasonal workers, with a start date between April 1, 2019 and the end of fiscal year 2019, exceeds 95,000 workers– almost three times the number of available H-2B visas for that time period. Given the near historic low unemployment rate, the constant oversubscription to the program and its importance to our local economies, we strongly urge you to use the discretion afforded your office in the most recent appropriations bill to release, without delay and to the greatest extent allowed by law, additional H-2B visas sufficient to meet the certified demand of our seasonal employers. If significant H-2B cap relief is not provided, there will be severe consequences for seasonal businesses and our economy generally. Several seasonal businesses denied access to the program due to the insufficient availability of visas have already been forced to scale back their operations, cancel or default on contracts, lay off full-time U.S. workers, and, in some cases, shutter their operations entirely. Failing to release additional H-2B visas will only result in more closures or scale backs for these businesses. We would also note that while we were pleased to see you exercise your discretion to release additional visas in previous years, the 15,000 additional visas released in both FY 17 & FY 18, were wholly inadequate to meet the demonstrated, certified needs of our seasonal employers. Further, in past years, rulemaking associated with the release of additional visas significantly delayed our employers’ access to them. We do not believe that additional rulemaking is required this year due to the timing of the law’s enactment. In 2017 and 2018, Congress did not pass the DHS appropriations until April and March, respectively. The announcement of the release of the additional 15,000 visas in each of these years was not made until the summer (July 17, 2017 and May 31, 2018). At those times, both DHS and DOL asserted that additional rulemaking was required because labor certifications provided in early winter were deemed to have become “stale” necessitating a fresh test of the labor market. This is not the case now. This year’s labor certifications have been issued within the past two (2) months and thus are concurrent with current labor market conditions. We urge the Department to announce quickly its intention to exercise the authority provided by Congress by providing the full amount of visas authorized and simply continue processing H-2B petitions until any additional visa allotment is exhausted. As a result of the discretion conferred by the recently passed appropriations bill, your department has the opportunity to assist these seasonal employers by allowing them access to a labor pool that can meet their demonstrated and certified needs. As such, we urge you to expeditiously release a sufficient number of additional visas (up to the 69,320 allowed by law) to allow these vital businesses to continue to fulfill their contracts, retain their American workers, make additional capital investments, expand their businesses and maximize their contribution to the American economy. Sincerely, ###
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Rounds Statement on Senate Confirmation of Andrew Wheeler to be EPA Administrator Rounds Voted in Favor of Wheeler’s Confirmation WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works (EPW) and Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today made the following statement after Andrew Wheeler was confirmed by the Senate to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “I congratulate Administrator Wheeler on his confirmation,” said Rounds. “I had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Wheeler during his confirmation process a number of times, and I appreciated our candid conversations about year-round E-15 sales, the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), small refinery waivers and other issues important to South Dakotans. In his EPW confirmation hearing, I asked about his plan to accomplish the administration’s goal of year-round E-15 sales by the summer driving season. He told me the EPA is committed to getting E-15 done before the summer driving season. At a time of low commodity prices and trade uncertainty, finalizing year-round sales of E-15 is an opportunity to support South Dakota’s farmers. I was pleased to support Mr. Wheeler’s confirmation and I look forward to working with him in his new role as EPA Administrator.” ###
02.27.2019	02.27.19 Bill to Transfer Federal Land to Custer County, South Dakota, Heads to the President “After extensive work with Custer County commissioners, the U.S. Forest Service, and the airport, and after having introduced this bill in two Congresses, this common-sense legislation to transfer land to the Custer County Airport will finally come to fruition.” WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Dusty Johnson (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved a bipartisan bill (S. 47) that included their Custer County Airport Conveyance Act, legislation that would transfer approximately 66 acres of Black Hills National Forest System land to Custer County, South Dakota. The U.S. Forest Service (USFS) has agreed to sell this land to the Custer County Airport, giving it full ownership of all acres the airport occupies. A portion of the Custer County Airport currently occupies USFS land under a longstanding USFS agreement. Both parties have agreed to the terms of the property sale and transfer that are specified in the legislation. “After extensive work with Custer County commissioners, the U.S. Forest Service, and the airport, and after having introduced this bill in two Congresses, this common-sense legislation to transfer land to the Custer County Airport and give it full ownership will finally come to fruition,” said Rounds, Thune and Johnson. “We urge the president to swiftly sign this broader legislative package into law to allow Custer Airport and the U.S. Forest Service to move forward.” This land transfer is necessary so Custer County can make additional improvements to its airport. Custer County has agreed to pay the USFS the appraised value of the land and all costs associated with the conveyance. Rounds, Thune and former U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) first introduced this legislation in January 2018. The delegation, including Johnson, reintroduced identical versions of the original bills this year at the beginning of the 116th Congress so they could again be considered by both chambers. The U.S. Senate passed S. 47, the broader legislation in which their bill was included, by of a vote of 92-8 on February 12, and the House passed it on February 26 by a vote of 363-62. The bill now heads to the president to be signed into law. ###
02.27.2019	02.27.19 Rounds, Colleagues Sound Alarm on $22 Trillion Debt Crisis WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined U.S. Sens. David Perdue (R-Ga.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) and James Lankford (R-Okla.) and U.S. Congressman Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.-05) to introduce resolutions in the Senate and House to recognize America’s national debt as a threat to our national security. Earlier this month, the national debt reached $22 trillion. “Surpassing $22 trillion in debt should be a wake-up call to Washington, which for decades has failed to balance the federal government’s checkbook,” said Rounds. “In South Dakota, we balance our books each year, and we have a strong economy and low unemployment because of it. High debt threatens economic growth by driving up interest rates and discouraging businesses and individuals from investing back into the economy. We literally cannot afford to wait any longer to take steps to get our debt under control. This includes committing to regular order with regard to our budget process and managing the entire federal budget, including mandatory payments. Delaying action and looking the other way is not an option.” At a Senate Banking Committee Hearing yesterday, Rounds discussed the impact a high debt has on our economy with Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. Watch the exchange here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eZ_9Am581JA&t=3s ###
02.25.2019	02.25.19 Rounds Supports Bill to Protect Newborns Who Survive Abortions Rounds on Senate floor: “All life is sacred and has value. We must seek to protect and save lives whenever possible, however possible.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered a speech on the Senate floor about the dignity of all human life prior to the Senate vote on the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Rounds is an original cosponsor of the legislation, which was introduced by Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.). It failed to advance in the Senate today. “In the history of the world, the true test of a society is how well we treat the most vulnerable among us,” said Rounds in his speech. “A baby who survives an abortion deserves the same rights under the law as any other newborn baby and should receive proper medical care, not be left to die – or killed… All life is sacred and has value. We must seek to protect and save lives whenever possible, however possible.” Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss an issue of vital importance to our society: the intrinsic value of human life. Later today, every senator will have an opportunity to stand up for human dignity and condemn infanticide when we vote on the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. This shouldn’t be a difficult vote for any one of us. I believe in the value of every innocent human life, beginning at the moment of conception to natural death. Life is a gift from God that should be respected and treated with dignity, from the very beginning to the very end. I’ve worked to enact pro-life policies throughout my time in public service based upon this principle. While working as governor, I signed legislation to ban abortions in South Dakota, except when necessary to save a mother’s life. Humanae Vitae, written by Pope Paul IV and later expanded upon in Evangelium Vitae written by Saint Pope John Paul II the Great, teaches that there can be no true democracy without a recognition of the dignity of every person. It goes on to teach that respect and dignity must be given to each human life for true peace and freedom to exist. We must demand respect for the rights of all. This includes those in the womb, as well as mothers carrying a child who are facing difficult challenges – both deserve our utmost compassion and care. While this should be common sense to everyone, we recognize that in this country there are individuals who are pro-life, and individuals who are pro-choice. While I and millions of other pro-life Americans continue to work to end all abortions and support measures that strengthen the dignity of life, recent actions at the state level have been deeply troubling. Pro-choice individuals are actually now supporting measures that would allow doctors to commit infanticide even after a baby has been born alive. For example, last month the state of New York repealed section 4164 of the state’s public health law which provided protections for an infant born alive after a failed abortion. Subsequently, in Virginia legislation has been introduced that would legalize abortion up to term and even after the birth has begun. In Rhode Island, the governor has vowed to sign legislation legalizing abortion even after the child is viable. These examples of abortion extremism at its worst – radical, abhorrent acts of infanticide – should horrify all of us. While I’m troubled by the thought of any baby being killed at any stage, at a bare minimum, every one of us should be able to agree that infanticide, or the killing of a baby after it has been born alive, is unacceptable. This is a separate issue from abortion, which is abhorrent in itself. In the history of the world, the true test of a society is how well we treat the most vulnerable among us. That is why we must pass this legislation, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, of which I am an original cosponsor. I would like to thank Senator Sasse for bringing this legislation forward. The Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act simply protects newborns who survive abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. When a failed abortion results in the live birth of an infant, our legislation makes clear that health care providers must exercise the same degree of professional skill to protect the newborn child, as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. A baby who survives an abortion deserves the same rights under the law as any other newborn baby and should receive proper medical care, not be left to die – or killed. It is also worth mentioning that President Trump stood up for life during his State of the Union address earlier this month, calling on Congress to pass legislation to prohibit late-term abortions of children who feel pain in the mother’s womb. President Trump urged: “Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life. And let us reaffirm a fundamental truth: all children -- born and unborn -- are made in the holy image of God.” I couldn’t agree more. All life is sacred and has value. We must seek to protect and save lives whenever possible, however possible. I urge my colleagues to support the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Press Contact
02.25.2019	02.25.19 Rounds Receives National Retail Federation’s “Hero of Main Street” Award for Outstanding Support of South Dakota’s Retail Industry WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after receiving the Hero of Main Street Award from the National Retail Federation (NRF). The award was presented by South Dakota Retailers Association Executive Director Nathan Sanderson. This award is given to members of Congress who publicly support policies and initiatives that support a sustained and healthy retail industry. “When our small businesses thrive, our economy soars,” said Rounds. “Consumers have been feeling good about supporting small businesses in South Dakota and across the country, due in part to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and other pro-economic growth policies we’ve passed in Congress. I thank the South Dakota Retailers Association for being a strong voice for the retail industry, and I look forward to working with them as we continue to promote policies that help our retailers succeed.” ###
02.21.2019	02.21.19 Rounds Receives NFIB “Guardian of Small Business Award” for 100 Percent Pro-Small-Business Voting Record WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) announced that he received the Guardian of Small Business Award from the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB). The award is given to members of Congress who work to strengthen small businesses in their states. Rounds received a 100-percent, pro-small-business voting record from the NFIB during the 115th Congress (2017-2018). “South Dakota’s small businesses provide good-paying jobs, play an important role in our communities and reinvest into the future of our state,” said Rounds. “I thank NFIB for this recognition and I’ll continue working in the Senate to advance legislation that helps South Dakota’s small businesses succeed.” “Senator Rounds was a true friend of small business during his time as governor and hasn’t wavered one step during his time in the U.S. Senate,” said NFIB South Dakota State Director Lindsey Riter-Rapp. “His 100 percent support for Main Street enterprises in the last session of Congress follows his 100-percent voting record in the 114th Congress. Now that the political composition of 116th Congress has changed a bit, it’s reassuring to know that we can count on small-business allies such as Senator Rounds to fight any attempt to weaken the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which has done so much for Main Street, mom-and-pop businesses.” ###
02.14.2019	02.14.19 Rounds Votes to Prevent Government Shutdown WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after he voted in favor of compromise legislation to fund border security measures and avoid a partial government shutdown: “Today’s agreement avoids a second government shutdown and provides the American people with the certainty of a fully-functioning federal government. It also makes a much-needed down payment on the president’s promise to strengthen border security. For these reasons, I voted for today’s proposal. “Moving forward, it is time to stop the recklessness of continuing resolutions (CR) and the threat of government shutdowns. This is no way to run a country. CRs and shutdowns not only fail to address our spending issues, they hold federal agencies, programs and workers in limbo – further wasting taxpayer dollars. The American people deserve better.” ###
02.14.2019	02.14.19 Rounds Reintroduces IHS Assessment Legislation Bill calls for HHS Secretary to undertake assessment of IHS health care delivery and financial management processes WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today reintroduced the Assessment of the Indian Health Service Act of 2019. He previously introduced this legislation during the 115th Congress, where it advanced out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee with bipartisan support. “Tribal members in South Dakota and across the Great Plains Region are in the midst of a health care crisis,” said Rounds. “For far too long, tribal members who rely on Indian Health Service (IHS) for health care have faced unimaginable horrors. The financial, structural and administrative problems at IHS have resulted in tribal members receiving misdiagnoses, waiting too long in emergency rooms, and in some cases dying due to inadequate care. IHS has a trust and treaty responsibility to provide proper health care to tribal members and it has failed in its duty. An assessment will allow us to take a close look at the failures of the IHS so that we can work in close consultation with the tribes to immediately solve these problems and begin providing the reliable, adequate care our tribal members deserve. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move it across the finish line this Congress.” Rounds’ legislation calls for the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to contract an assessment of IHS’s health care delivery systems and financial management processes at IHS direct-care facilities. Rounds first requested an assessment of IHS in 2016. He introduced legislation for an assessment of IHS in 2017. South Dakota’s tribal chairmen have shown continued support for this measure. ###
02.13.2019	02.13.19 Rounds Joins Thune, Warner to Introduce Legislation to Address Student Debt Crisis Legislation would allow employers to offer tax-free student loan assistance to help their employees pay off student loan debt WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined his colleagues in introducing legislation to help Americans tackle their student loan debt. Led by Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mark R. Warner (D-Va.), the Employer Participation in Repayment Act would allow employers to contribute up to $5,250 tax-free to their employees’ student loans – providing employees with much-needed relief and employers with a unique tool to attract and retain talented employees. “With the cost of education skyrocketing, student loan debt is at an all-time high,” said Rounds. “Our legislation would open up additional tools to help both students dealing with education loans and employers seeking to attract new hires. I’m pleased to join Sens. Thune and Warner in this effort to ease the financial burden for families seeking a college education.” According to reports, one in four Americans have student loans, and student debt in the U.S. reached $1.5 trillion in 2018. Student debt is a significant financial burden that not only influences the way our workforce saves and spends, but also has a stifling effect on the economy. The Employer Participation in Repayment Act would update an existing federal program so that it works better for employees living with the reality of burdensome student loan debt. The Employer Education Assistance Program, as currently written, only provides assistance for workers who are seeking additional education. It does not extend to individuals who have already incurred student loan debt during their undergraduate or graduate studies. Additional cosponsors of the bill include U.S. Sens. Angus King (I-Maine), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Doug Jones (D-Ala.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Kyrsten Sinema (D-N.M.). The legislation has also been introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Scott Peters and (D-Calif.) and Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) and has support from numerous educational organizations. ###
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Natural Resources Management Act Includes Rounds’ Conservation Education Amendment, Provision to Expand Custer County Airport WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement on Senate passage of S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act of 2019. The legislation passed 92-8: “In South Dakota, we treasure our public lands. We also work to protect the rights of private landowners and encourage conservation of our lands for future generations. This bipartisan legislation seeks to improve management of our public lands and allow greater local control of water management decisions. “I’m pleased it included my Landowner Conservation Education amendment, which will make certain landowners are fully aware that perpetual conservation easements – which bind future generations into a contract with the federal government – aren’t their only option when entering into a conservation agreement. This provision will increase awareness for all conservation options and keeps landowners and the federal government on equal footing.” The Natural Resources Management Act of 2019 includes Rounds’ Landowner Conservation Education amendment, which creates an education program for landowners to make sure they are aware of all conservation options available to them. It also includes a provision Rounds worked to advance with Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Rep. Dusty Johnson (R-S.D.), which would transfer land from the Black Hills National Forest System to the Custer County Airport. The airport is already located on the land but will now have full ownership of the acres it occupies. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Rounds Meets with Attorney General Nominee Bill Barr WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement following his meeting with Bill Barr, President Trump’s nominee to be Attorney General: “I appreciated the opportunity to meet privately with the president’s nominee to be Attorney General, Bill Barr,” said Rounds. “As our nation’s top law enforcement officer, he is committed to enforcing the law and upholding the Constitution. We had a lengthy discussion about our right to bear arms, and I thank Mr. Barr for his commitment to protecting our Second Amendment rights. I look forward to supporting his nomination when it comes before the full Senate.” ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Rounds Cosponsors Bipartisan Bill to Address Rising Prescription Drug Prices WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced he is a cosponsor of the Creating and Restoring Equal Access to Equivalent Samples (CREATES) Act, reintroduced this Congress by Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Mike Lee (R-Utah). The CREATES Act would address anticompetitive practices used by some brand-name pharmaceutical and biologic companies to block entry of lower-cost generic drugs. Rounds cosponsored this legislation in the 115th Congress as well. “Prescription drug costs are too high and demand for prescription drugs continues to grow as the baby-boomer generation ages,” said Rounds. “The CREATES Act seeks to enhance competition in the prescription drug market by fast-tracking the approval process for generic drugs. I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues in Congress to advance this bipartisan, common sense legislation.” The CREATES Act would deter pharmaceutical companies from blocking cheaper generic alternatives from entering the marketplace. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the bill would result in a $3.9 billion net decrease in the federal deficit. Savings to consumers and private insurers likely would be far greater – many billions of dollars more. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives this Congress. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Sioux Falls Student Receives Fully Qualified Offer of Appointment to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Bryn Ellwein was nominated to West Point by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Bryn Ellwein of Sioux Falls, SD, has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which she intends to accept. Ellwein is the daughter of Ryan and Shelby Ellwein of Sioux Falls. She currently attends Roosevelt High School, and will graduate in May 2019. “We congratulate Bryn on her offer of appointment to West Point,” said Rounds. “She has worked hard to get to this point. Bryn is first in her class of 455. She is an AP Scholar with Distinction and a Science National Honor Society Member, and is involved in varsity soccer, quiz bowl, band, basketball and track. She also gives back to her community as a volunteer with Best Buddies, Food to You and the Sioux Falls Banquet. We wish Bryn all the best at West Point.” “I thank my parents, teachers and friends who all prepared, helped, and supported me through the process,” said Ellwein. “I can’t wait to face all the challenges West Point throws my way, and I hope I can represent South Dakota well while I’m there.” In 2018, Ellwein received a Letter of Assurance from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which guaranteed her admission as long as she met all the other requirements of the Academy. She attended the West Point Summer Leadership Experience last year. Each year, Sen. Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Rounds Statement on the State of the Union Address WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the president’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, the president laid out a vision for our country that builds upon the successes of the past two years to further strengthen our economy and keep us safe. Reminding us that much more unites us than divides us as Americans, he called on us to set aside our differences and tackle the tough issues before us. I couldn’t agree more. “We all want to make our country safer, freer and more prosperous for the future. This includes enacting policies that further grow our economy, strengthening national defense and border security, making sure all Americans have access to affordable health care and prescription drugs, opening new markets for our products through strong trade agreements, and improving our nation’s infrastructure which is in need of repair. I thank the president for prioritizing these important issues in his address to Congress and the nation tonight. I also wish to thank the president for his strong commitment to defending innocent life.” “The American people expect results. I’m ready to work with anyone – on either side of the aisle – to tackle these issues head-on.” ###
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Rounds: Navy Names Ship for South Dakota Capital City New Littoral Combat Ship to be named USS Pierre WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) announced today that Secretary of the Navy Richard V. Spencer has named the next Independence-variant Littoral Combat Ship USS Pierre (LCS 38) in honor of the capital city of South Dakota. “It’s an honor to have a Navy vessel named after our state’s capital city of Pierre,” said Rounds. “While we are about as far away from an ocean as you could get, South Dakotans have a long history of service to the Navy. USS South Dakota (SSN 790), the Navy’s newest Virginia-class nuclear attack submarine, was recently commissioned. South Dakota citizens are proud supporters of our military and we are thrilled to have USS Pierre join the Navy’s fleet.” USS Pierre (LCS 38) will be the second ship to bear the name. It will be built by Austal USA in Mobile, Ala. USS Pierre (LCS 38) will be 419 feet long and will be capable of operating at speeds of more than 40 knots. The Littoral Combat Ship is a highly maneuverable, lethal and adaptable ship, designed to support focused mine countermeasures, anti-submarine warfare and surface warfare missions. ###
02.02.2019	02.02.19 Rounds Delivers Keynote Address at USS South Dakota Commissioning Ceremony GROTON, CT - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered the keynote address at the commissioning ceremony for USS South Dakota, a next-generation, Virginia-class attack submarine designed to fulfill 21st century mission requirements. “Even though we South Dakotans live about as far away from an ocean as anyone can get, we are fiercely proud of the men and women who serve on this new submarine now and in the future, just as we are still fiercely proud of those who served on the two previous navy vessels named USS South Dakota,” said Rounds during his remarks. “This new, Virginia-Class attack vessel includes state-of-the-art technology designed to increase stealth, as well as a revised bow and sonar panels that will allow it to better detect and track other submarines in its area.” Full Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: This is a great day for the Navy and the people of the United States of America. Thank you to everyone here with us today, especially the many USS South Dakota service members and distinguished guests in attendance. I want to also give a very special thank you from the people of South Dakota to the current and future officers and crews of USS South Dakota. We will always appreciate and be grateful for the sacrifices you and your families will make in order to serve on this magnificent vessel. Thank you also to the thousands of people who have been involved in the creation of this great submarine, especially to the highly-skilled shipyard workers who actually built her. It is a great honor and humbling moment for me to be here for the Commissioning of USS South Dakota. Although you may have heard this before, it is worth repeating: It is not the speech-giver who protects our freedom of speech, it is not the reporter who protects our freedom of the press, it is not the politician who protects our right to vote, and it is not the preacher who protects our freedom of religion. All of our freedoms have actually been protected by the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America. Without our service members protecting our freedoms, our nation, like so many others, could have become the victim of those seeking to do us harm. One hundred years ago, approximately 15 percent of the world’s population was living in free or partially-free nations. Today, 65 percent are living in freedom. It is one of the world’s greatest accomplishments of the last 100 years and perhaps in all of human history and it could not have been done without men and women like the crew of USS South Dakota – the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America. That’s why we must always be grateful to the men and women of our armed forces, current, past and future. Even though we South Dakotans live about as far away from an ocean as anyone can get, we are fiercely proud of the men and women who serve on this new submarine now and in the future, just as we are still fiercely proud of those who served on the two previous navy vessels named USS South Dakota. This new, Virginia-Class attack vessel includes state-of-the-art technology designed to increase stealth, as well as a revised bow and sonar panels that will allow it to better detect and track other submarines in its area. The 377 foot long, 7,800 ton submarine can stay at sea for up to three months at a time. It is armed with four torpedo tubes and can hold 12 Tomahawk missiles that are capable of hitting targets over 1,000 miles away. These features, coupled with the talented crew that will be stationed on USS South Dakota, will play a significant role in our national security efforts for years to come. It has been nearly seven decades since the last USS South Dakota, a battleship, took to the seas. The first USS South Dakota, ACR-9, was a Pennsylvania-class armored cruiser that was launched in 1904. She performed several missions in both the Atlantic and Pacific oceans until the start of World War I. That first USS South Dakota protected Brazilian ports, escorted troop convoys to Europe and brought troops back home from France after the armistice. Her last duty was to serve as the flagship of the Asiatic fleet in 1919. After that, she was renamed USS Huron so that the name USS South Dakota could be used for a new class of battleships. The next USS South Dakota was BB-57 and she was launched on June 7, 1941, exactly six months before the attack on Pearl Harbor. That ship and her crew served in the Pacific theater for 15 months, receiving two Navy Unit Commendation awards during the battles of Guadalcanal and the Santa Cruz Islands. After returning briefly to New York for repairs following the battle of Guadalcanal, USS South Dakota then joined the British Home fleet in the North Atlantic before returning to the Pacific in 1943. During her second tour in the Pacific, she operated with our fast aircraft carriers during raids on Japanese bases. She used her heavy guns to shell enemy positions during the Marianas campaign. During the Battle of the Philippine Sea, her main deck was hit by a Japanese bomb, and she once again returned home for repairs. But by the fall of 1944, she was back conducting combat operations, screening carrier task forces during strikes in the Western Pacific. The invasions of Leyte, Luzon, Iwo Jima and Okinawa were among the operations she participated in. She was also present in Tokyo Bay on September 2, 1945, for Japan’s formal surrender. Her actions were reported in newspapers, magazines and on the radio, as the deeds of Battleship "X" or “Old Nameless,” because the Navy wanted to hide information about the battleship from our enemies. USS South Dakota was decommissioned in January 1947. She was inactive until October 1962, when she was sold for scrap metal. However, South Dakotans are so fiercely proud of Battleship X that materials were retained and parts of the ship and memorabilia are displayed in the outline of the main deck at a park in Sioux Falls, our state’s largest city. Captain Dave Witte was one of the many people who donated thousands of hours of their time and talents in creating and maintaining the Battleship South Dakota Memorial. For 36 years, Captain Witte was in the Navy and Naval Reserve, serving in both World War II and the Korean War. For 22 years, he was the president of the Battleship South Dakota Memorial. He also designed and supervised the construction of the Minnehaha County Veterans Memorial and served as its chairman for 17 years. Unfortunately, Captain Witte isn’t here with us today because he died one month ago, on January 2. But I know he is with us in spirit. May God Bless Captain Dave Witte and all of our veterans, living and deceased, who served on USS South Dakota. In addition to her excellent contributions to the war effort, USS South Dakota became famous for something else during the war. The youngest serviceman to fight in World War II was a member of the crew of USS South Dakota. His name was Calvin Graham. He was on USS South Dakota for the battles of Santa Cruz and Guadalcanal and earned a Bronze Star and Purple Heart. He was hit by shrapnel in the jaw. Though seriously wounded, he helped pull other crew members to safety. Then, at a later time, he admitted to his gunnery officer that he was under-age. His gunnery officer was Sargent Shriver, whom, I understand, after the war, married quite well to a young lady named Eunice. Anyway, Calvin admitted he was really only 12 years old. Calvin was promptly put in the brig for three months and then dishonorably discharged. Then, he was returned home to Texas where he celebrated his thirteenth birthday and resumed his studies in the seventh grade. We are proud and grateful for everyone’s service on the battleship USS South Dakota and all of the South Dakotans who went to war. Approximately 65,000 South Dakotans served in World War II. South Dakota had the highest per capita participation rate of any state. If you count just the people between 18 and 64, one out of every six persons left South Dakota and went to war. Back home, South Dakotans also did their part by raising crops to feed our nation and our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guard members. Although the battleship USS South Dakota and the submarine USS South Dakota are very different, they have the same overarching mission: to maintain, train and equip combat-ready Naval forces capable of winning wars, deterring aggression and maintaining freedom of the seas. When “Battleship X” was launched in 1941, Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox said, “I say to the good ship South Dakota, God go with you, because after all, your mission, the mission for which we built you, is not war, but the prevention of war as God wills.” I say to these officers and this crew today, May God also go with you and may you help our nation achieve peace through strength for us and future generations.
01.30.2019	01.30.19 Box Elder Resident Offered Appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Kyras Fort was nominated to Naval Academy by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Kyras Fort of Box Elder, SD, has been offered a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, which Fort intends to accept. Fort is the son of John Paul Fort and Enri Yamashita Fort. He currently attends the Frankfurt International School in Germany. Fort received a nomination to the U.S. Naval Academy from Rounds, and was one of Rounds’ three principal nominees. Principal nominees are guaranteed admission if they meet all of the requirements of the academy to which they are nominated. “I congratulate Kyras on his appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy,” said Rounds. “It is a privilege for me to be able to nominate the highest caliber of students, like Kyras, to the service academies. I commend him for the hard work he has put in to secure his spot at the Naval Academy, and for his dedication to serve his country. We wish him all the best at the Naval Academy.” "Wearing the uniform of the United States Navy is of the highest honor,” said Fort. “Senator Rounds and the United States Naval Academy have bestowed upon me the profound responsibility and privilege to serve our great nation as a future naval officer. I will do so with honor, courage, and dedication." Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
01.30.2019	01.30.19 Delegation Introduces Legislation to Allow Tribal Grant Schools to Devote Additional Resources to Improving Education Legislation would provide Federal Employees Health Benefits and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance eligibility for tribally operated grant schools WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Dusty Johnson (R-S.D.) today introduced Senate and House companion bills that would allow tribal grant schools to participate in the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) programs. This change would free up resources to improve recruiting and retention efforts for professional educators in tribal communities by allowing schools to spend less on health insurance and more on education-specific items. “By allowing tribal grant schools to be eligible for federal health insurance programs, these schools would save thousands of dollars each year,” said Rounds. “This would allow them to redirect those resources toward improving teacher and administrator retention rates – an important factor in student success.” Currently, tribal schools are operated either directly by the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE); by tribes, through Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance (ISDEA) Act contracts; or through Tribally Controlled Schools Act grants, which help support tribal grant schools. Currently, 128 schools nationwide operate as tribal grant schools, including nearly 20 in South Dakota, and three schools currently operate through an ISDEA contract. BIE operates 52 tribal schools across the nation. Rounds, Thune and then-U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) first introduced this legislation in the 115th Congress. ###
01.28.2019	01.28.19 Rounds to Chair Senate EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight in 116th Congress WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today announced that he will serve as chairman of the Senate EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight in the 116th Congress. He previously chaired this committee in the 114th and 115th Congresses. “It’s an honor to continue working as chairman of this important subcommittee,” said Rounds. “The Senate EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight is responsible for providing regulatory oversight of programs and rulemaking decisions by the Army Corps, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and EPA, many of which directly impact South Dakota families and businesses. I look forward to continuing to work with Senate EPW Committee Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) to hold these agencies accountable and make certain the decisions they make are in the best interest of the American people.” The Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight has jurisdiction over: Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), Superfund and Brownfields, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), including recycling, Federal Facilities and interstate waste, Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA), Chemical Safety Board, Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs), Environmental Justice and Risk Assessment. It also has responsibility for oversight of agencies, departments and programs within the jurisdiction of the full committee, including oversight of environmental research and development, and for conducting investigations within such jurisdiction. ###
01.28.2019	01.28.19 Rounds Cosponsors Thune Bill to Fully Repeal Death Tax WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced he cosponsored the Death Tax Repeal Act, reintroduced by Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.). Rounds cosponsored this legislation during the 114th and 115th Congresses. “When the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law, it included measures to temporarily double the exemption rate of the death tax,” said Rounds. “However, permanent repeal is necessary to make certain that family farms and ranches will be able to be passed down for generations to come.” The Death Tax Repeal Act would repeal the federal estate tax and the generation-skipping transfer tax. It would make permanent a maximum 35 percent gift tax rate and the lifetime gift-tax exemption, indexed for inflation. It would maintain the stepped-up basis rule under current law. ###
01.25.2019	01.25.19 Rounds Supports Deal to end 35-Day Government Shutdown PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement regarding the agreement to reopen government through February, 15, 2019: “I’ve said all along that nobody wins in a shutdown. I’m glad a deal has been reached on a three-week Continuing Resolution so hardworking federal employees can get paid and important federal services can resume. Congress and the president must now work diligently on a long-term appropriations package and strengthening border security. “The senselessness of the past 35 days, coupled with another short-term CR, underscores the need to reform the entire budget process, which has only worked in 4 of the past 45 years. Government shutdowns and continuing resolutions are wasteful, ineffective and destabilize government programs, making them more difficult for our citizens to utilize.” ###
01.24.2019	01.24.19 Rounds Votes to End Shutdown WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after he voted in favor of a proposal that would end the partial government shutdown and strengthen border security: “Nobody wins in a government shutdown. South Dakota families are suffering and the economy is hurting. I voted today in support of a proposal that would end the shutdown, enhance border security and address the growing humanitarian crisis at the border. This compromise proposal was supported by the White House and drafted by the Senate Appropriations Committee. It was a fair deal that included ideas from both sides of the aisle. Unfortunately, the measure did not have enough votes to advance in the Senate. While I am disappointed, I hope that we can continue negotiating to come to an agreement that will end the shutdown as soon as possible. Time is of the essence to reach a consensus to end this senseless shutdown.” ###
01.17.2019	01.17.19 Rounds to Chair Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee in 116th Congress Rounds chaired the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity during previous congress WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), today announced that he will serve as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity in the 116th Congress. He also chaired the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity during the 115th Congress. This subcommittee was first established by the late SASC Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) in 2017, and continues to be supported by current SASC Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) “It is a privilege to have the opportunity to chair the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity once again,” said Rounds. “I thank Chairman Inhofe for his support of our subcommittee’s mission, which is to strengthen the Defense Department’s ability to swiftly respond to cyberattacks. Over the past two years, the work of the subcommittee has resulted in legislation that has improved the Defense Department’s cyber efforts, both offensively and defensively. We hope to build on that momentum in the coming years. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the committee and members of the administration so we can continue to make progress on U.S. cybersecurity.” The Subcommittee on Cybersecurity has primary jurisdiction over all cyber-related oversight and legislation for the Department of Defense. In addition to his subcommittee chairmanship, Rounds will serve on the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces and the Subcommittee on Personnel. ###
01.17.2019	01.17.19 Rounds Accepting Summer 2019 Internship Applications **Deadline to apply is Feb. 15** WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for summer 2019. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is Friday, Feb. 15, 2019. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than Feb. 15, 2019. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Kari Weller at kari_weller@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Kari Weller at (605) 336-0486. ###
01.16.2019	01.16.19 Rounds to Wheeler: Finalizing Year-Round Sales of E-15 Before Summer Driving Season Crucial to South Dakota Corn Producers WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), today questioned Andrew Wheeler, the president’s nominee to be administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), during Wheeler’s confirmation hearing. “I appreciated the opportunity to reiterate the urgent need for year-round sales of E-15 to Mr. Wheeler during his confirmation hearing. Allowing for year-round sales of E-15 would be a huge win for corn and corn ethanol producers and could result in approximately 700 million additional gallons of ethanol sold. E-15 also lowers evaporative and tailpipe emissions when compared to 10 percent ethanol fuel, so it’s better for the environment. “President Trump has said multiple times that he supports year-round sales of E-15. I’m pleased Mr. Wheeler agrees—he said the EPA is committed to getting E-15 done before the summer driving season. I intend to hold him to that commitment and I look forward to supporting his confirmation.” Wheeler has served as acting EPA administrator since July 2018. Prior to that, he served as deputy administrator of the EPA. Rounds met with Wheeler last week to discuss a number of the issues brought forth during today’s confirmation hearing. ###
01.11.2019	01.11.19 Delegation Reintroduces Bill to Transfer Federal Land to Custer County, South Dakota WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Dusty Johnson (R-S.D.) today reintroduced Senate and House companion versions of the Custer County Airport Conveyance Act, legislation that would transfer approximately 66 acres of Black Hills National Forest System land to Custer County, South Dakota. The U.S. Forest Service (USFS) has agreed to sell this land to the Custer County Airport, giving it full ownership of all acres the airport occupies. A portion of the Custer County Airport currently occupies USFS land under a longstanding USFS agreement. Both parties have agreed to the terms of the property sale and transfer that are specified in the legislation. “We’re glad to reintroduce this commonsense bill in the opening days of this new Congress because we believe it’s important to give Custer County Airport full ownership of all the land on which the local airport currently operates,” said Rounds, Thune and Johnson. “We’ve diligently consulted with all of the involved parties – the U.S. Forest Service, Custer County Commissioners, and the airport – and everyone agrees that this legislation is the most efficient way to achieve this goal.” This land transfer is necessary so Custer County can make additional improvements to its airport. Custer County has agreed to pay the USFS the appraised value of the land and all costs associated with the conveyance. Rounds, Thune and former U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) first introduced this legislation in January 2018. With the beginning of the 116th Congress earlier this month, the delegation reintroduced identical versions of the original bills so they could again be considered by both chambers. ###
01.10.2019	01.10.19 Rounds Meets with Andrew Wheeler, President’s Nominee to be EPA Administrator WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), met with Andrew Wheeler, President Trump’s nominee to be administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The EPW Committee is responsible for oversight of the EPA. “I appreciated the opportunity to sit down with Acting Administrator Wheeler to talk about a number of EPA issues impacting South Dakotans,” said Rounds. “We had a productive discussion about year-round sales of E-15 and I shared with him my concerns about the number of Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) waivers issued to refineries which have lowered the amount of corn ethanol blended into the nation’s fuel supply in recent years. Production of corn ethanol directly helps South Dakota farmers, bolsters American energy independence and creates jobs. I look forward to supporting Acting Administrator Wheeler’s nomination when it comes before the EPW Committee later this year.” Wheeler has served as acting EPA administrator since July 2018. Prior to that, he served as deputy administrator of the EPA. ###
01.09.2019	01.09.19 Rounds, Colleagues Reintroduce Bill to Fully Fund Border Wall WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), John Kennedy (R-La.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Bill Cassidy (R-La.) to reintroduce the WALL Act, legislation that would fully fund the border wall along the southern border. Their legislation, first introduced last Congress, is also the first bill that will fund the wall by identifying specific funding sources. “The primary responsibility of the federal government is the defense of our nation, which includes strong border security,” said Rounds. “The WALL Act will provide full funding for construction of a physical barrier along our southern border to protect against illegal immigration and stop those who wish to do us harm, such as terrorists, gang members and drug dealers, from entering the United States from the south. It pays for the wall by closing existing loopholes that allow illegal immigrants to receive federal benefits and increasing fines for illegal border crossings and visa overstays. By funding the wall through increased fines, we prevent any risk of dipping into Department of Defense (DoD) funding, which is already stretched thin. I thank Chairman Inhofe for his leadership on this effort and I look forward to advancing this proposal in the Senate.” The WALL Act will fully fund the president’s $25 billion border wall while providing specific ways to pay for it: Require a work-authorized Social Security Number (SSN) to claim refundable tax credits, like the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) or the Child Tax Credit: Currently only the child needs a SSN, not the parent benefiting from the refundable child tax credit. The WALL Act would require the parent to have a valid work-eligible social security number. Before 2003, the Social Security Agency did not distinguish between work-eligible and non-work eligible SSNs. Therefore, there are individuals benefiting from the EITC they are not authorized to receive because they are non-work eligible. Require welfare applicants (food stamps, TANF, HUD, etc.) to verify citizenship: Currently someone only needs to “declare” citizenship and provide a SSN to receive some of these benefits. The WALL Act enhances citizenship verification prior to granting benefits using E-verify and require a work-authorized SSN for eligibility. Increasing the minimum fines on illegal border crossers and establishes minimum penalty for visa overstays. ###
01.08.2019	01.08.19 Rounds Encourages South Dakotans to Send Feedback on U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement USMCA expected to receive Senate vote this year WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today shared the full text of the preliminary U.S.-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) trade agreement on his website. Last year, the Trump administration negotiated the USMCA, which, if approved by Congress, will replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Congress will now review the proposal and is expected to vote on it later this year. Rounds encourages South Dakotans interested in this measure to visit his website, review the agreement and share their thoughts or concerns with him. “With the 116th Congress in full swing, working to improve South Dakota’s ag economy remains a top priority for me,” said Rounds. “This includes opening new markets for our producers and finalizing trade deals like the USMCA. Maintaining strong relationships with Mexico and Canada, our top two trading partners, is important for the overall health of our economy. In the next few months, Congress is expected to vote on the USMCA. I am reviewing the proposal in full, and I encourage South Dakotans to read it as well and share their thoughts with me. We have posted the full text on my website, www.rounds.senate.gov. It is important to me that South Dakotans have a voice in the final agreement.” On Nov. 30, 2018, the USMCA was agreed to by President Trump. The text will be available for public comment for several months before Congress considers it for a vote. The full text can be found on Rounds’ website. ###
01.03.2019	01.03.19 Rounds Secures Key Committee Assignments for 116th Congress WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he will maintain his membership on four key committee assignments in the 116th Congress: Senate Armed Services Veterans’ Affairs Environment and Public Works (EPW) Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Rounds Statement: “I look forward to working on these committees, each of which focuses on issues that are important to South Dakotans. We have many accomplishments to be proud of so far, and I look forward to building on those successes in the 116th Congress.” “Throughout my time serving on the Senate Armed Services Committee, we’ve strengthened Ellsworth’s role as a vital component of our long-term national defense strategy, bolstered defense funding and improved our nation’s cybersecurity.” “Our men and women in uniform have made incredible sacrifices to protect the homeland and keep us safe. We owe it to our veterans to keep the promises we’ve made them. As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, we will continue to hold the VA accountable and we are committed to getting our veterans the care they deserve." “The Senate EPW Committee has important oversight jurisdiction over the EPA, the Army Corps of Engineers and surface transportation infrastructure. As a member of this committee, my priorities include holding the Corps accountable for the decisions it makes along the Missouri River, assuring the EPA lives up to its legal obligations under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and rebuilding our nation’s roads and bridges.” “Making certain that South Dakota families and business owners have access to credit when they need it has been a top priority of mine while working on the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. Last year, we were able to enact the first major overhaul of our financial system since Dodd-Frank, providing much-needed regulatory relief to our smaller and midsized banks so they can focus on serving their customers. We’ll continue to seek ways to roll back burdensome regulations in the 116th Congress.” ###
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Rounds: Criminal Justice Reform Legislation Fails to Address Basic Public Safety Concerns WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement regarding his opposition to the First Step Act, legislation that would reform the federal prison system and modify several federal sentencing provisions – which may allow certain violent and drug criminals to be eligible for early release: “I support the intent of criminal justice reform, particularly for nonviolent offenders, but the First Step Act fails to adequately protect South Dakota families from violent criminals who should remain behind bars. We can’t be soft on crime when we’re facing a serious drug epidemic across our state and nation. Without the support of our attorney general and local law enforcement officials – who will be the ones dealing with dangerous criminals released early from the federal prison system – I could not in good conscience vote in favor of legislation that poses a threat to public safety.” “Allowing violent criminals to walk free may reduce federal expense, but it certainly doesn’t make society safer. Reducing recidivism rates for non-violent offenders is a worthy pursuit. However, this legislation does not restrict early release to non-violent only, but unfortunately did not exclude many violent offenders, putting the public at risk.” South Dakota Attorney General Marty Jackley: “I recognize the need for prison reform, and I support providing additional tools and flexibility to help certain nonviolent offenders to re-enter our communities as safe and productive citizens. While several versions of the legislation provided these important tools and flexibility which I embrace, I share in the concerns about additional safeguards needed in the final legislation to protect victims and our communities from certain violent criminals and sex offenders and remain hopeful that continued work will strengthen these important protections.” Types of crimes that will now be eligible for early release: bank robbery by force or violence 18 U.S.C. § 2113(c) certain drug-related robbery, even if a person is killed 18 U.S.C. § 2118(a) assaulting a law enforcement officer 18 U.S.C. § 111(a) assisting federal prisoners with jailbreak 18 U.S.C. § 752 assault with a dangerous weapon 18 U.S.C. § 113(a)(3) assaulting a child or infant 18 U.S.C. § 113(a)(5) coercing a child to engage in prostitution or any sexual activity 18 U.S.C. § 2422(b) threatening to assault, kidnap or murder a federal judge or law enforcement officer 18 U.S.C. § 115(a)(1)(b) hate crimes 18 U.S.C. § 249 conspiracy or attempt to engage in human trafficking 18 U.S.C. § 1594 trafficking crystal meth 18 U.S.C. § 841(b) racketeering 18 U.S.C. § 1951 blackmail 18 U.S.C. § 873 Organizations Opposed to The First Step Act: The National Association of Police Organizations National Sheriffs Association FBI Agents Association National Association of Assistant United States Attorneys Major County Sheriffs of America The Association of Federal Narcotics Agents The Criminal Justice Legal Foundation The Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association The National Narcotics Officers’ Associations’ Coalition and the Major Cities Chiefs Association ###
12.18.2018	12.18.18 Spearfish High School Student Offered Appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy Sierra Hillard received a nomination from Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced Spearfish High School student Sierra Hillard has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, which she intends to accept. Sierra is the daughter of Sue Hillard of Whitewood, SD, and the granddaughter of former South Dakota Lt. Governor Carole Hillard. Sierra was nominated to the Air Force Academy by Rounds. “We congratulate Sierra on this incredible accomplishment,” said Rounds. “Receiving an offer of acceptance to our nation’s service academies is not easy. Sierra has worked very hard in school--she is graduating from Spearfish High School in January 2019 and will graduate from Black Hills State University with an Associate Degree in Applied Health Sciences this month. She is a member of the National Honor Society and the varsity track team, and is involved in volunteer work in her community. We wish her all the best at the Air Force Academy.” “I am thankful for the opportunity to represent South Dakota at the United States Air Force Academy,” said Hillard. “The nomination and appointment are truly a reflection of my outstanding teachers and mentors. After attending summer programs at each academy, I was quite impressed with the scientific research options for Air Force cadets. I hope other students will recognize this amazing opportunity and challenge themselves to ‘aim high.’” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
12.15.2018	12.15.18 Bronze Star Medal Posthumously Awarded to Yankton World War II Veteran Rounds presents Bronze Star to Mrs. Lucille Mjoen on behalf of her late husband, Private First Class Gilbert Mjoen YANKTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today presented the Bronze Star Medal to Yankton resident Mrs. Lucille Mjoen on behalf of her late husband, World War II veteran Private First Class Gilbert Mjoen. The Bronze Star was awarded to Mjoen for meritorious achievement in active ground combat against the enemy on Dec. 19, 1944, in Holland, where he was wounded while serving with the 104th Infantry Division. He previously received the Purple Heart and the Good Conduct Medal. “It’s my honor to present the Bronze Star to Mrs. Mjoen on behalf of her husband, Gilbert,” said Rounds. “Like so many members of the Greatest Generation, Gilbert was called to serve our nation during World War II. He joined the Army in 1943 and fought in Holland, Belgium and Germany. We are forever grateful to Gilbert for the sacrifices he made to preserve freedom here in the United States and around the world. I wish that Gilbert could be here to accept the award today, surrounded by his family and friends.” Mjoen was born on January 30, 1925, in Volin, SD. In 1943, after graduating high school, he joined the U.S. Army’s 104th Infantry Division. He was a first gunner on the light machine gun squad and the 50-caliber machine gun. He fought in the European Theatre of Operations, specifically in Holland, Belgium and Germany. Rounds’ office seeks to assist veterans and their families if a military award has been lost or is overdue. Please contact any of Rounds’ South Dakota offices for assistance. Contact information can be found here. ###
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Five-Year Farm Bill Bill includes a number of Rounds’ priorities WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement on the Senate passage of the farm bill conference report, which includes a number of priorities he requested earlier this year. It passed with strong bipartisan support, 87-13. “The farm bill is a vital piece of legislation for farmers and ranchers in South Dakota, where our economy depends on agriculture,” said Rounds. “At a time when farm income is down 50 percent and our producers are at the tip of the spear with the ongoing trade disputes, passage of a five-year farm bill is a critical step toward providing our ag community with much needed certainty and stability. The farm bill includes tools that can help farmers and ranchers keep their operations viable even during tough times. I thank Senate and House Ag Committee leaders and members for their work on this important bill, and urge the president to sign it into law as soon as it passes the House.” The farm bill includes a number of priorities Rounds has pushed for in farm bill negotiations: Strengthens safety net programs such as crop insurance; Allows for re-enrollment for producers utilizing commodity programs under Title I, specifically Price-Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agricultural Risk Coverage (ARC); Increases the cap for Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres from 24 million acres to 27 million acres, with 2 million acres reserved for grasslands; Establishes an Animal Disease and Preparedness Program, which includes a vaccination bank to combat economic, food and national security concerns; Increases the total Farm Service Agency (FSA) Guaranteed Loan Program’s individual cap on Ownership and Operating Loans from $1.399 million to $1.75 million. Rounds called for an increase to these individual loan caps in the FSA Loan Guarantee Enhancement Act that he introduced; Establishes a Rural Health Liaison position to work in coordination with the Department of Health and Human Services to improve rural health care delivery. This measure is based on legislation Rounds sponsored. Full text of the farm bill can be found here. ###
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Rounds Statement on Confirmation of Jon Kobes to be Circuit Court Judge WASHINGTON- U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the confirmation of his counsel, Jonathan Kobes of Sioux Falls, to be a Circuit Judge on the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Kobes will replace Judge Roger Wollman, who is taking senior status at the end of the year. “Jon will be an excellent judge on the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,” said Rounds. “He has spent his career demonstrating his commitment to justice, the fair application of the law and the betterment of the community by providing pro-bono legal services to those in need. I have the utmost confidence in his ability to protect the Constitution and the rule of law, and I look forward to watching him excel as a federal judge.” ###
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Rounds: Revised WOTUS Rule a Win for Landowners, Ag Community & States’ Rights Earlier today, Rounds Joined the EPA, Army Corps & Stakeholders in Announcing Revised WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today joined Acting Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Andrew Wheeler, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James, American Farm Bureau President Zippy Duvall and other stakeholders in announcing a revised ‘Waters of the U.S.’ rule. “The revised WOTUS rule gives farmers, ranchers and landowners the certainty they need to know when the Clean Water Act applies to them and when it does not,” said Rounds. “In providing this clarity from the onset, it removes Washington bureaucrats from making ambiguous decisions on land which they aren’t familiar with, as landowners are. Additionally, the rule works with landowners to strengthen water safety – rather than saddle them with unnecessary burdens with little to no benefit to the environment and our water supply. It also respects states’ rights, recognizing that state and tribal governments have a right to regulate and manage their land and water resources themselves.” “As it was previously written, the WOTUS rule would have been one of the largest federal land grabs in U.S. history. It would have required farmers, ranchers and landowners to spend countless hours filling out burdensome paperwork to get permits from the federal government just to conduct normal agricultural activities or spray for weeds along our county roads. I thank the administration for recognizing the damage the previous administration’s WOTUS rule would have on agricultural operations and job creators. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this commonsense proposal forward.” A 60-day public comment period now begins for anyone to weigh in on the proposal. Those who may be affected by the WOTUS rule can offer their thoughts on EPA’s website HERE. Additional information on the proposed rule, as well as supporting analyses, is available on EPA’s website HERE.
12.10.2018	12.10.18 Rounds Announces Nominations to U.S. Service Academies for 2019-2020 School Year WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he has nominated 25 South Dakota students to the nation’s service academies for the 2019-2020 school year. “The U.S. service academies only accept the best and the brightest,” said Rounds. “I am fortunate to have the opportunity to nominate 25 highly-qualified students to the academies this year. Each student I nominated went through a thorough application process and has proved that he or she possesses the necessary qualities to succeed at our service academies. I commend this year’s group of students for their desire to serve our nation and I wish them all the best.” Each year, members of Congress are allowed to nominate students from their state to the U.S. service academies. Each academy then gives full and fair consideration to these nominations when selecting enrollees. More information about the academy application process can be found here. Principal Nominations Brysen Reeser of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy Kyras Fort of Box Elder to the U.S. Naval Academy (Fort also received a competitive nomination to the U.S. Military Academy from Rounds) Aiden Diedrich of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Air Force Academy Competitive Nominations Bryn Ellwein of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy (Ellwein has received a Letter of Assurance from the U.S. Military Academy) Isaac Olson of Mobridge to the U.S. Military Academy Taylor O’Brien of Leesburg, VA, (South Dakota resident) to the U.S. Military Academy Justin Weaver of Dakota Dunes to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Mitchell Kistner of North Sioux City to the U.S. Military Academy Dominick Oedekoven of Sturgis to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Marita Schmitz of Rapid City to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy (Schmitz has received a Letter of Assurance from the U.S. Naval Academy) Henry Jensen of Dakota Dunes to the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marines Academy Frank Hines of Huron to the U.S. Naval Academy (Hines has received a Letter of Assurance from the U.S. Naval Academy) Claire Hussey of Pierre to the U.S. Naval Academy Frank Veldhuizen of Rapid City to the U.S. Naval Academy Gavin West of Piedmont to the U.S. Naval Academy Jacob Frantzen of New Underwood to the U.S. Naval Academy Samuel McNeil of Herreid to the U.S. Naval Academy Jack Elliot of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Naval Academy Sierra Hillard of Whitewood to the U.S. Air Force Academy (Hillard has received a Letter of Assurance from the U.S. Air Force Academy) Haley Deome of Ramstein Air Base (South Dakota resident) to the U.S. Air Force Academy Reagan Wombold of Rapid City to the U.S. Air Force Academy Jay Dykstra of Rapid City to the U.S. Air Force Academy Jaden Petersen of Brookings to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Merchant Marines Academy Prescott Haber of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Air Force Academy Alexander Miller of Brandon to the U.S. Merchant Marines Academy Competitive nominations are submitted to the academies, along with nominees from other states, and selected by the academy on a limited, competitive basis. Principal nominations are guaranteed admission if they meet all of the requirements of the academy to which they are nominated. Students with a Letter of Assurance from an academy are guaranteed admission as long as the nominee meets all other requirements of the academy. ###
12.06.2018	12.06.18 With Rounds, Thune Support, Tea and U.S. Highway 83 Receive Critical Infrastructure Grants U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT’s) decision to award the City of Tea’s County Highway 106 project and South Dakota Department of Transportation’s U.S. Highway 83 project $8.7 million and $20 million, respectively, in critical infrastructure funding under the Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) program. Today’s announcement follows multiple requests from the senators to DOT Secretary Elaine Chao for these projects’ funding. “I thank Secretary Chao for recognizing the need to invest in these important infrastructure projects,” said Rounds. “The Highway 106 and Highway 83 projects will not only benefit the surrounding communities, they will allow for increased transport of goods and commodities across the region – a surefire boon to the regional economy.” The City of Tea plans to move forward with the reconstruction of a portion of Highway 106, located in the southwest Sioux Falls metropolitan area. Since the route from Interstate 29 to 469th Avenue is the community’s primary and commercial and residential transportation thoroughfare, County Highway 106 experiences substantial vehicle traffic each day, creating unsafe driving conditions. The proposed project in Tea would rebuild the rural, two-lane highway into a four-lane divided highway with limited access. The reconstruction would not only provide important safety upgrades but would also provide a reliable and effective transportation route. U.S. 83 is a north-south highway cutting across South Dakota and America’s heartland. Once the only paved route stretching from Canada to Mexico, this thoroughfare continues to be an integral part of our National Highway System. Navigating through six states and critical to our nation’s agriculture and energy sectors, access and connectivity enhancements to U.S. Highway 83 are essential to ensuring an efficient transportation network. South Dakota Department of Transportation plans to move forward with grading, freight climbing lanes, resurfacing, drainage, shoulder work, and other features along 23 miles of U.S. Highway 83. This project is an important component of a longer corridor augmentation along the highway between South Dakota and Nebraska. ###
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Fully Fund Border Wall WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D) joined Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), John Kennedy (R-La.) and Ted Cruz (R-Texas) to introduce the WALL Act, legislation that would fully fund the border wall along the southern border. This legislation is also the first bill that will fund the wall by identifying specific funding sources. “The primary responsibility of the federal government is the defense of our nation, which includes strong border security,” said Rounds. “The WALL Act will provide full funding for construction of a physical barrier along our southern border to protect against illegal immigration and stop those who wish to do us harm, such as terrorists, gang members and drug dealers, from entering the United States from the south. It pays for the wall by closing existing loopholes that allow illegal immigrants to receive federal benefits and increasing fines for illegal border crossings and visa overstays. By funding the wall through increased fines, we prevent any risk of dipping into Department of Defense (DoD) funding, which is already stretched thin. I thank Chairman Inhofe for his leadership on this effort and I look forward to advancing this proposal in the Senate.” This legislation will fully fund the President’s $25 billion border wall while providing specific ways to pay for it: Require a work-authorized Social Security Number (SSN) to claim refundable tax credits, like the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) or the Child Tax Credit: Currently only the child needs a SSN, not the parent benefiting from the refundable child tax credit. The WALL Act would require the parent to have a valid work-eligible social security number. Before 2003, the Social Security Agency did not distinguish between work-eligible and non-work eligible SSNs. Therefore, there are individuals benefiting from the EITC they are not authorized to receive because they are non-work eligible. Require welfare applicants (food stamps, TANF, HUD, etc.) to verify citizenship: Currently someone only needs to “declare” citizenship and provide a SSN to receive some of these benefits. The WALL Act enhances citizenship verification prior to granting benefits using E-verify and require a work-authorized SSN for eligibility. Increasing the minimum fines on illegal border crossers and establishes minimum penalty for visa overstays. ###
12.01.2018	12.01.18 Rounds Statement on Passing of President George H. W. Bush PIERRE—Earlier today, U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on the passing of President George H. W. Bush: “Our hearts are heavy today as we mourn the loss of President George H.W. Bush. From his time as a young naval aviator who fought in World War II to serving as the 41st President of the United States during the post-Cold War era, President Bush dedicated his life to our country. He will be forever remembered for his strong faith, his love of family and his love of country. Jean and I are keeping the entire Bush family in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.” ###
11.30.2018	11.30.18 Rounds Statement on EPA’s 2019 Renewable Volume Obligations PIERRE - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced the 2019 Renewable Volume Obligations (RVO) under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), which includes the 2020 RVO for biomass-based diesel. The EPA announced a total of 19.92 billion gallons of renewable fuels to be blended in 2019, 15 billion gallons of which will be primarily made up of corn ethanol. Biomass-based diesel volumes for 2020 are set at 2.43 billion gallons, an increase of 330 million gallons over the standard for 2019. “South Dakota is a leader in corn ethanol production, and the RFS has provided the certainty necessary for the corn industry to become a vital component of our nation’s fuel supply. The explosion of corn ethanol production has directly helped our farmers, bolstered American energy independence and created thousands of jobs. I am pleased to see the EPA meet their statutory deadline with this rulemaking, and that they are allowing for 15 billion gallons of corn ethanol in 2019.” “However, I am disappointed that the EPA did not incorporate the impact of small refinery waivers into their decision. The EPA granting these waivers has lowered the amount of corn ethanol blended into the nation’s fuel supply in recent years. The EPA should be using their legal authority to not only restore these lost gallons, but anticipate their impact moving forward. These waivers have the potential to reduce domestic corn ethanol demand by billions of gallons, hurting South Dakota farmers and our state’s largest industry.” ###
11.29.2018	11.29.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Legislation to Commemorate End of WWII WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, praised the Senate passage of the 75th Anniversary of World War II Commemoration Act yesterday. This legislation establishes a commemorative program to honor veterans, educate the public about the history of World War II, highlight the service of the men and women who served our nation on the home front during the war, recognize the contributions of our allies and remember the horrors of the Holocaust. “The world owes a debt of gratitude to the men and women who led us to victory in World War II,” said Rounds. “Deserving of the title The Greatest Generation - given to them by South Dakota’s own Tom Brokaw - these men and women prepared to sacrifice everything to preserve our freedom and save the world. I am pleased to see our effort move forward to recognize the World War II generation, whose service, courage and resolve forever changed the course of history.” ###
11.29.2018	11.29.18 Rounds, Thune Urge President to Reopen U.S. Soybean Exports to China WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today, ahead of President Trump’s trip to Buenos Aires, Argentina, for the G20 Summit, urged the president to prioritize the restoring of U.S. soybean market access in China when he meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping to discuss trade and other issues. “We appreciate your efforts to address China’s unfair trade practices, but our soybean producers cannot continue to bear the brunt of China’s retaliatory tariffs, especially considering the current weak agricultural economy,” the senators wrote. “As you continue working to reach a trade agreement with China, we respectfully request that you make restoring U.S. soybean market access in China a top priority.” South Dakota is expected to produce 275 million bushels of soybeans this year, and two-thirds of that production is typically exported to China. This year, however, U.S. soybean exports to China have nearly ground to a halt. Full text of the letter below: The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: As senators representing a state with significant soybean production, we write to request that you actively pursue reopening U.S. soybean exports to China during your upcoming meeting with President Xi Jinping. U.S. soybean producers have spent decades establishing and expanding market access in China. In 2017, China was the top market for U.S. soybean exports, with approximately 30 percent of the soybeans harvested in the United States exported to China. As you know, U.S. soybean exports to China nearly ceased after China imposed retaliatory tariffs on our soybeans in July. China then began utilizing U.S. global competitors to supply its protein needs. If the United States continues to lose this critical market, there is a diminishing chance it will be fully regained, which will result in long-term reduced soybean prices for U.S. producers. We appreciate your efforts to address China’s unfair trade practices, but our soybean producers cannot continue to bear the brunt of China’s retaliatory tariffs, especially considering the current weak agricultural economy. As you continue working to reach a trade agreement with China, we respectfully request that you make restoring U.S. soybean market access in China a top priority. Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to continuing to work with you to expand market access for U.S. agricultural exports. Sincerely, ###
11.20.2018	11.20.18 Delegation Invites Veteran Affairs Secretary to Hot Springs VA Facility in South Dakota WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) have invited Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert Wilkie, who was confirmed in July, to visit the Hot Springs VA facility in South Dakota. The delegation has worked closely with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and previous secretaries to highlight the good work being done at the facility and encourage them to keep it open and operational. “As you continue to appreciate the scope of the VA’s mission and footprint, we hope you will consider visiting Hot Springs to see firsthand the quality, five star care provided and hear from those personally impacted by the VA’s realignment plan,” the delegation wrote. “For example, as your predecessors have heard, the Hot Springs VA has a proven track record for serving veterans enrolled in its Residential Rehabilitation Treatment Program for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and substance abuse. We know that we are not alone in thinking that the outstanding program at Hot Springs could be expanded or serve as a national model for care, perhaps as a non-coastal division of the National Center for PTSD.” Full text of the letter: Dear Secretary Wilkie: Thank you for your continued attention to the significant challenges facing America’s veterans and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as you work to improve access to quality care, streamline the claims process, and improve VA accountability, among other issues. As Congress and the VA continue to work together to confront these challenges and carry out the VA’s mission, we would appreciate the opportunity to meet with you and discuss the challenges faced by South Dakota veterans. As you know, one issue of particular importance in our state is the VA’s planned restructuring of the VA Black Hills Health Care System (BHHCS). In December 2011, the VA publically announced its plan to close the VA hospital in Hot Springs, SD, replace it with a Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC), and move the domiciliary from Hot Springs to Rapid City as part of the planned CBOC expansion. From the beginning, we have raised concerns with the VA about the impact the closure would have on access to care for our region’s rural and tribal veterans. We sought explanations for the questionable data used to support the proposal, as the VA could not produce a cost-benefit analysis until six months later. Area veterans also believe that past VA leadership has mismanaged the facility into a state of decline, supporting a predetermined decision to close the medical center. You are now the fourth VA Secretary to oversee this matter, which underscores how long South Dakota veterans and the town of Hot Springs, “the Veterans Town,” have endured great uncertainty about the future of their VA and access to care. Over the past seven years, we have led efforts to secure credible data and foster an honest conversation about the important and life-saving services provided in Hot Springs. Moreover, we do not believe that the VA should consider any realignment of services in an ad hoc manner, which is why we have supported appropriations language to prohibit the VA from proceeding with any reconfiguration of services in VISN 23 until it completes a national realignment strategy. As you continue to appreciate the scope of the VA’s mission and footprint, we hope you will consider visiting Hot Springs to see firsthand the quality, five star care provided and hear from those personally impacted by the VA’s realignment plan.[1] For example, as your predecessors have heard, the Hot Springs VA has a proven track record for serving veterans enrolled in its Residential Rehabilitation Treatment Program for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and substance abuse. We know that we are not alone in thinking that the outstanding program at Hot Springs could be expanded or serve as a national model for care, perhaps as a non-coastal division of the National Center for PTSD. We hope we will soon be able to discuss this and other matters concerning South Dakota veterans. Thank you for your consideration to meet in Washington, DC, and also visit South Dakota. We look forward to working with you to continue improving veterans health care in our state and throughout the country. Sincerely, [1] https://www.va.gov/QUALITYOFCARE/measure-up/End_of_Year_Hospital_Star_Rating_FY2018.asp
11.15.2018	11.15.18 Thankful for the Opportunity to Work for South Dakota in the Senate This Thanksgiving, I would like to share with all South Dakotans my gratitude for the opportunity to work for you in the United States Senate. It is a privilege that I will never take for granted. I continue to work every day to make decisions that will improve the lives of everyone in South Dakota. Jean and I send our warmest wishes to you this holiday season. Thanksgiving is a good time to look back on the year and thank the Lord for the blessings that we have received. This year, we welcomed our 10th grandchild, Maverick Michael Rounds, born to my son John and his wife Ashlee. Our kids and grandkids are our greatest gifts and we’re so thankful for the time we get to spend with them. I truly believe the pilgrims intended the first Thanksgiving to be a celebration of the harvest, and most importantly to thank the good Lord for the blessings he gave them in the new world. It is compelling they shared this first Thanksgiving with the Native Americans who had welcomed them. None of us would be able to enjoy the freedom to celebrate this holiday if not for the service of our military members. We are incredibly thankful to them for the sacrifices they make to protect our way of life in the United States. We are also thankful to their families and friends who support them. Parents, spouses and children of military men and women make great sacrifices too. We pray for those who may not be able to spend the holiday season with their loved ones. We also pray for our first responders who put their lives in danger to protect their neighbors and communities. We are thankful for our farmers and ranchers who work tirelessly to put food on the tables of families all across the country. South Dakota’s farmers and ranchers are some of the hardest working people I know. With trade instability and farm income down, I continue calling for the administration to quickly finalize trade deals that benefit our producers. I also continue calling for a strong farm bill that will provide more stability for the ag industry. This year for Thanksgiving, we look forward to hosting around 40 of our family members. We’ll have two or three turkeys, depending on how many show up, but one is never enough to feed our whole crew. Of course we’ll have all the trimmings like potatoes, gravy, dressing and my two favorites—homemade cranberry sauce and pumpkin pie with lots of whipped cream! We also try to fit in some time for pheasant hunting on Thanksgiving Day—one of the many traditions we look forward to each year. One national tradition that South Dakota has a special role in this year is the president’s pardoning of a Thanksgiving turkey. Each year, two live turkeys are sent to Washington, D.C., where they will be pardoned by the president. This year’s turkeys come from the Riverside Colony near Huron. After they are pardoned they will be transported to Virginia Tech to live out the rest of their days at Gobbler’s Rest. I hope you enjoy spending time with your loved ones, partaking in your own Thanksgiving traditions this year, whatever they may be. The people of South Dakota are what make our state the best place in the world, and I am grateful for the opportunity to work for you in the Senate. Happy Thanksgiving! ###
11.14.2018	11.14.18 Rounds Opening Statement at Cybersecurity Subcommittee Hearing Hearing entitled, “Private Sector Perspective on DoD’s Cybersecurity Acquisition and Practices WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee, today delivered opening remarks at a hearing on the private sector perspective on the Department of Defense’s (DoD) cybersecurity acquisition and practices. “The Department’s cybersecurity acquisition is slow, decentralized and often overly reliant on the National Security Agency’s product evaluation and indigenous production,” said Rounds in his opening remarks. “And, because of this, the department’s capabilities often pale in comparison to the best available in the private sector. While we have confidence that the department will bolster its cybersecurity in due time, we believe that this improvement could come as a result of improved cooperation with private sector cybersecurity companies and reconfiguration of the department’s cybersecurity capabilities to better match the state-of-the-art offerings in the private sector.” Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: The Cybersecurity Subcommittee meets this afternoon to receive testimony on the Department of Defense’s cybersecurity acquisition and practices from the private sector. Our witnesses are: Mr. Dmitri Alperovitch, Co-founder and Chief Technology Officer, CrowdStrike Inc.; Major General John Davis, U.S. Army (Retired), Federal Chief Security Officer, Palo Alto Networks; Mr. Francis Landolf, Principal, Core Consulting, LLC; and Mr. Ronald Nielson, Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, Parsons Corporation. Every single day, adversaries attack the Department of Defense through cyberspace, attempting to gain critical information about our ongoing operations, weapon systems and servicemembers. These attacks are only as successful as the department’s cybersecurity capabilities and practices allow them to be. And to its credit, the department possesses many extremely effective operators, program suites and mitigation tools to protect its networks and computing infrastructure. However, the department’s cybersecurity and cybersecurity operations are decentralized, which means that certain DoD components exhibit better cybersecurity than others. In other words, the department has produced pockets of excellence within the DODIN (Department of Defense Information Network), but opportunities remain for the department to improve its cybersecurity capabilities and practices across the enterprise. For example, the department’s centralized cybersecurity operators, the Defense Information Systems Agency, often lack visibility into networks across the department. Further, the department’s cybersecurity operators—including CYBERCOM’s cyber protection teams and the thousands of IT/cybersecurity specialists maintaining the department’s networks—are not particularly well-integrated with each other or with the cybersecurity capabilities used across the department. The department’s cybersecurity acquisition is slow, decentralized and often overly reliant on the National Security Agency’s product evaluation and indigenous production. And, because of this, the department’s capabilities often pale in comparison to the best available in the private sector. While we have confidence that the department will bolster its cybersecurity in due time, we believe that this improvement could come as a result of improved cooperation with private sector cybersecurity companies and reconfiguration of the department’s cybersecurity capabilities to better match the state-of-the-art offerings in the private sector. We hold this hearing today to find out how the department and Congress can achieve these advances. We look forward to our witness’ commentary on questions to include: Where are the department’s cybersecurity capabilities, architecture and operators lacking as compared to the cybersecurity leaders in the private sector? What capabilities can the private sector provide to fill these gaps? And how are the department’s acquisition processes and cybersecurity policies failing its cybersecurity? ###
10.31.2018	10.31.18 Rounds Statement on Proposed Rule to Facilitate Liquidity in Options Markets PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today issued the following statement on a proposed rule by the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that would implement the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk: “I’m pleased to see that our regulators are taking action to implement the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk, or SA-CCR. This move will accomplish the main goals of S. 3283, The Options Market Stability Act, which I introduced with Senator Duckworth earlier this year. The rule will make the U.S. financial system safer and more competitive throughout the globe. I look forward to working with our regulators to complete this rule expediently in order to strengthen the resiliency of the American financial system." The rule will help facilitate liquidity in options markets by moving toward a newer, internationally accepted risk-sensitive accounting standard. Earlier this year, Sens. Rounds and Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) introduced the Options Markets Stability Act to accomplish the same goal. ###
10.22.2018	10.22.18 What They're Saying About Rounds' Bill to Require a Comprehensive Assessment of IHS Last month, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs passed S.465 with broad, bipartisan support. S. 465 would require the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to contract an assessment of the Indian Health Service’s (IHS) health care delivery systems and financial management processes only at direct-care facilities. It now awaits consideration by the full Senate floor. Here is what stakeholders have been saying: Harold C. Frazier, Chairman, Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe: “I endorse S. 465 - Independent Outside Audit of the Indian Health Service Act of 2017. This bill has been long overdue as the Indian Health Service (IHS) has been reluctant in giving information to the Tribes. When tribes are not given information, it hampers those tribe’s ability to plan with the IHS and provide effective medical care for our members and be an effective partner in preventative medicine. I fully support this bill and would like to personally thank Senator Mike Rounds for his work on S. 465 that would establish an independent outside audit of the Indian Health Service.” Lester Thompson, Chairman, Crow Creek Sioux Tribe: “It is about time Congress took action to consider legislation, such as Senate Bill 465, that will facilitate a much needed audit of the Indian Health Services (IHS) incompetent health care delivery and financial management systems that plagues the numerous tribes in our region. IHS failures range from lack of access to health care for dialysis treatment to serious staffing concerns that have been inadequately addressed and outright ignored, resulting in a direct and harmful impact on our tribe. To address all issues of concern, the Crow Creek Sioux Tribe is hopeful that Senate Bill 465 will be amended to include in the scope of the IHS audit the current lack of access to critically needed dialysis centers that has had a detrimental effect on our tribal members suffering from Diabetes related kidney failure. The Crow Creek Sioux Tribe urges the immediate passage of Senate Bill 465.” Tony Reider, President, Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe: “The state of health care in Indian Country is troubled. The Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe has successfully operated its own health care facility for decades, and has provided the best care it could with available resources. The Indian Health Service has created barriers for the Tribe, mostly stemming from untimely payment of annual funding through the P.L. 93-638 agreement with the Indian Health Service. The Tribe looks forward to a thorough assessment of the Indian Health Service, and believes that it is an opportunity for the Indian Health Service, the United States Congress, and the Tribe to fully understand the hurdles presented by the current regulatory framework, and to develop a plan to fix a failing system.” Boyd Gourneau, Chairman, Lower Brule Sioux Tribe: “With all that is happening on the hill, I can't express my gratitude enough for Senator Rounds’ efforts not only to the health and wellbeing of our members, but holding the IHS accountable for providing quality healthcare and that the funds are spent in a responsible manner. Our members deserve the same quality healthcare as anyone else and the Senator is seeing to that, he has never wavered on the issue and his efforts are much appreciated. Pilamaya.” Troy S. Weston, President, Oglala Sioux Tribe: “One of the oldest treaties between the federal government and Indian Nations makes provision for providing health care. When the federal government fails to do their part, Native peoples suffer and too many times loss of life occurs. The trust responsibility is not a discretionary choice. It is not a line item. It is a solemn agreement that has been sustained over hundreds of years. The health disparities our tribal communities face need to be addressed immediately before another generation of American Indian and Alaska Native people lose their quality of life to debilitating health problems left untreated. American Indians and Alaska Natives have a life expectancy five years less than all other races in this country. Diabetes continues to be a devastating curse among American Indian and Alaska Native people. The mortality rates from diabetes for our Native communities are more than three times the national average. This is a statistic that can be reduced. Authorization of S. 465 would address an independent outside audit of the Indian Health Service to that the most basic elements of health care: doctors and nurses, mental health professionals, addiction counselors and the medical equipment, facilities, even buildings required to provide even the most fundamental services will be copiously examined in this assessment. Today, I am calling upon the 115th Congress to continue to fulfill the federal trust responsibility by authorizing S. 465 to provide for an independent outside audit of the Indian Health Service.” Rodney M. Bordeaux, President, Rosebud Sioux Tribe: “I received news that the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs approved S. 465, the Independent Outside Audit of the Indian Health Service Act of 2017. I would like to thank and commend Chairman John Hoeven, Vice-Chairman Udall, and committee members for their efforts to address inefficiencies in the Indian Health Service (IHS). I would also like to express gratitude on behalf of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe for the tireless efforts of Senator Mike Rounds and staff in the development, introduction, and continual support for this crucial legislation. It is not a secret that the IHS is historically underfunded. A combination of increased funding and assurances that the necessary metrics are in place to assess qualitative data that will ensure funding is provided to a system that is efficient and accountable. When this bill becomes law, it will mandate an assessment of the IHS that will provide the insight necessary to determine how the limited funding that the IHS receives can be more efficiently utilized and ensure that increases in funding will be used to improve the quality of healthcare provided to tribal members to the greatest extent possible.” Dave Flute, Chairman, Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe: “On behalf of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, I am grateful S. 465 is moving forward and encourage our congressional leaders to continue to support this legislation. Tribes like mine in the Great Plains region have experienced challenges with the Indian Health Service for years. Challenges such as funding, management and quality care are issues that my tribe and other tribes in our region have shared with our congressional leadership and I am very grateful Senator Rounds took the initiative to put forth S. 465 so that an independent outside audit can be conducted on I.H.S., and see why tribes like mine experience these challenges, but more importantly to get them fixed. I am in full support of S. 465 and again want to thank Senator Rounds and his colleagues for moving this legislation forward.” Tim Rave, President and CEO, South Dakota Association of Healthcare Organizations: “On behalf of South Dakota Association of Healthcare Organizations (SDAHO), which represents 32 Post-Acute Care providers, 54 hospitals and 3 health systems in South Dakota, we offer this statement of support for S. 465, the Assessment of Indian Health Service (IHS) Act of 2017. The basis for this support relates to long standing concerns involving the delivery of substandard care at IHS facilities. These failures have resulted in numerous incidents of harm and inadequate coordination of care and administration of services. The Assessment is urgently needed and will provide invaluable information and data that can be utilized to research/recommend opportunities for improvements and ensure access to high quality, safe care for Native Americans in South Dakotans and throughout the country.” Mike Faith, Chairman, Standing Rock Sioux Tribe: "The way to fix many problems is often to find the root cause, with the request for a comprehensive audit, we, the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, believe this will find the root of the many problems and help address or fix the many issues and aspects of the Indian Health Service. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe applauds Senator Rounds for introducing S.465: Independent Outside Audit of the Indian Health Service Act of 2017 and feels this is step in the right direction to fulfilling the federal government’s trust responsibility of delivering timely, adequate health care to tribal members." Robert Flying Hawk, Chairman, Yankton Sioux Tribe: "Quality health care is a critical component to the right to accessible healthcare services and to dignity of our tribal members. For too long Indian Health Services (IHS) has gone without an audit to verify the delivery of adequate and cost effective healthcare services. Quality healthcare is essential to the prevention and treatment of serious and chronic diseases such as diabetes and cancer. The long history of incompetent management of IHS clinics and lack of access to critical healthcare services has negatively impacted the health and livelihood of our tribe and the tribes in our region. The Yankton Sioux Tribe is very thankful that included in the scope of the audit stipulated in Senate Bill 465 is accessibility to cancer services for rural Indian reservations. The Yankton Sioux Tribe urges the immediate passage of Senate Bill 465.” ###
10.11.2018	10.11.18 Rounds Introduces Legislative Package to Promote Economic Growth Rounds: Let’s keep the momentum going on the economy WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today introduced six bills to reduce the regulatory burden for investors and small businesses seeking to raise capital so they can create jobs and grow our economy. “These bills seek to lessen financial regulatory burdens, making it easier for consumers to invest and for job creators to thrive,” said Rounds. “They maintain protections for consumers and have already received strong, bipartisan support in the House of Representatives, as the majority were part of the JOBS and Investor Confidence Act, which passed nearly unanimously earlier this year. Over the past two years, we’ve made significant strides in enacting pro-growth policies and growing our economy. This legislation will help keep the momentum going.” “These important provisions – which were key components of the “JOBS and Investor Confidence Act of 2018” which passed the House with near unanimous support – will help sustain 3 percent economic growth and ensure we are able to compete globally with countries like China,” said House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling. “I commend Senator Rounds for introducing them in the Senate so that we can continue to make a difference for economic growth for all Americans.” Pro-Growth Legislation Introduced Today by Rounds: Alleviating Stress Test Burdens to Help Investors Act provides relief to non-bank financial institutions by removing bank-centric stress testing requirements and instead allows more appropriate regulators – the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) – to conduct stress tests on these companies. Modernizing Disclosures for Investors Act requires the SEC to conduct a study (due in 180 days) aimed at simplifying the quarterly financial reporting system for small, emerging growth companies. Improving Investment Research for Small and Emerging Issuers Act directs the SEC to study issues that inhibit the dissemination of research on emerging growth companies. Current lack of research coverage makes it more difficult for small companies to obtain capital they need to grow. Developing and Empowering our Aspiring Leaders (DEAL Act) Act requires the SEC to expand the type of assets that venture capitalists can invest in without having to undergo burdensome registration. Investment Adviser Regulatory Flexibility Improvement Act requires the SEC to revise its definition of a "small business" when assessing the impact of its regulations on small, Main Street investment advisers. Under the bill, the SEC must look beyond assets under management and include other factors, such as the number of employees at a small advisory firm. Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) Improvement Act enhances the transparency and procedural fairness of the non-bank systemically important financial institutions (SIFI) designation process. It also provides affected institutions a greater opportunity to be heard by the functional regulator and modify its business, structure or operations prior to the SIFI designation. ###
10.11.2018	10.11.18 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Legislation to Commemorate End of WWII WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Dean Heller (R-Nev.) and Gary Peters (D-Mich.) introduced the 75th Anniversary of World War II Commemoration Act. This legislation would establish a commemorative program to honor veterans, educate the public about the history of World War II, highlight the service of the men and women who served our nation on the home front during the war, recognize the contributions of our allies and remember the horrors of the Holocaust. “The world owes a debt of gratitude to the men and women who led us to victory in World War II, ”said Rounds. “Deserving of the title The Greatest Generation - given to them by South Dakota’s own Tom Brokaw - these men and women prepared to sacrifice everything to preserve our freedom and save the world. It is an honor to join my colleagues in this effort to recognize the World War II generation, whose service, courage and resolve forever changed the course of history.” ###
10.10.2018	10.10.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Water Infrastructure Bill Comprehensive legislation includes Rounds’ priorities, now heads to president’s desk WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued a statement on the Senate’s passage of America’s Water Infrastructure Act, a comprehensive, bipartisan bill that will benefit communities across South Dakota. “Water is one of our most precious natural resources,” said Rounds. “South Dakotans rely on water infrastructure for energy, irrigation, agriculture, recreation, flood control, and clean drinking water. The legislation we passed today builds on the Senate’s commitment to investing in the future of our country. This bill will modernize and strengthen America’s water infrastructure so these systems will be around for generations to come. I look forward to President Trump signing it into law soon.” Rounds’ priorities included in America’s Water Infrastructure Act: Directs the Secretary of the Army to expedite completion of snowpack and moisture monitoring programs authorized under the 2014 Water Resources Development Act. Directs the Secretary of the Army to quickly review applications for certain easements necessary to access federal land for installation of water withdrawal intakes in the Upper Missouri Mainstem Reservoirs. Restricts the Army Corps of Engineers from issuing a water storage fee with respect to any water storage in the Upper Missouri Mainstem Reservoirs until 2026. It also extends the current prohibition on surplus water fees until 2026. Includes a provision for inflation adjustment of cost-sharing provisions for territories and Indian tribes. Allows authorized projects under the Tribal Partnership Program, such as the Lower Brule Shoreline Erosion Project, to be split into separable elements so work can begin as soon as possible. America’s Water Infrastructure Act is supported by the American Farm Bureau Federation, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Ducks Unlimited, the National Rural Water Association, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Association of Counties and more. ###
10.09.2018	10.09.18 Rounds Supports Year-Round E-15 Sales WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement regarding the administration’s decision to allow year-round sales of gasoline mixed with 15 percent ethanol, or E-15. In previous years, sales of E-15 were banned annually between June 1 and September 15, which includes the country’s busiest driving months. “Allowing year-round sales of E-15 will not only increase markets for South Dakota producers, it will increase consumer choice at the pump and keep fuel costs low,” said Rounds. “South Dakota is a leading state in corn ethanol production. As the market for ethanol increases, the market for corn will grow, resulting in more jobs and increased revenue for South Dakota’s corn farmers. At a time when farmers are already struggling due to a decrease in farm income and trade uncertainty, providing year-round sales of E-15 is an opportunity to give our farmers a much-needed boost.” Rounds, a strong supporter of corn ethanol, has repeatedly called for year-round sales of E-15. At an August 2018 meeting with Acting Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Andrew Wheeler, Rounds said “corn ethanol production has created thousands of jobs for South Dakotans and has increased American energy independence—two major goals of this administration.” He is a cosponsor of the Consumer and Fuel Retailers Choice Act, which would extend the Reid vapor pressure waiver and lift the summertime ban on E-15 gasoline. Earlier this year, he joined Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) and 16 other senators in a letter to the EPA requesting year-round E-15 sales. ###
10.06.2018	10.06.18 Rounds Statement on Confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice to the United States Supreme Court: “Despite a prolonged ‘advice and consent’ process in which our Democrat colleagues went to extreme, unprecedented measures to try and stop his nomination, today the Senate confirmed Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Judge Kavanaugh is immensely qualified to serve as a Supreme Court Justice. During the last 12 years on the D.C. Circuit Court, he has demonstrated a thorough understanding that a judge’s responsibility is to interpret and apply the law and Constitution as written, not based on a judge’s personal views or political motivations. He clearly recognizes the limited authority of each of the three branches of government. South Dakotans – and all Americans – stand to benefit from his judicial approach as he takes his seat on the nation’s highest court.” ###
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Rounds: Comprehensive Opioids Bill Headed to President’s Desk Bipartisan, Bicameral Effort Will Help Combat Opioid Epidemic WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after the Senate voted to pass H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a bipartisan proposal that includes measures from both House and Senate members to combat the opioid epidemic. This legislation now heads to the president to be signed into law. “Opioid addiction is a devastating epidemic that has spread to all corners of our society. Nobody is immune from opioid addiction, and many of us may know someone who is struggling right now. The bill we passed today will help put a stop to the heartbreaking issue of opioid abuse in our country. It can help save lives and keep our communities safe and secure. I am glad that members of the Senate and House from both parties could come together to pass this important legislation that will make a difference in the lives of South Dakotans.” The legislation passed today: Includes the STOP Act which would help stop the shipment of deadly synthetic opioids such as fentanyl, Allows the Federal Drug Administration to require prescription painkillers be packaged in small supplies in blister packs to prevent abuse, Prioritizes research of non-addictive painkillers to replace traditional prescription opioids, Extends support for Medicaid patients seeking treatment for substance abuse disorders from 15 to 30 days, Allows more medical professionals to treat people in recovery to prevent relapse, Improves state prescription drug monitoring programs, Provides support for comprehensive opioid recovery centers, Includes help for babies born in opioid withdrawal and for mothers with opioid abuse disorders. Congress has made significant strides to address the opioid epidemic, including passage of the Opioid Crisis Response Act and the 21st Century Cures Act. Congress has appropriated a total of $8.5 billion this year for programs to fight the opioid crisis. ###
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Rounds Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on the EPA’s Use of Sound and Transparent Science WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered his opening statement at a hearing entitled “Oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Implementation of Sound and Transparent Science in Regulation.” “The EPA has a long history of creating burdensome, unnecessary regulations without giving the public an opportunity to fully vet the reasoning behind their decisions,” said Rounds. “Sound, reliable science is vital to helping us make important policy decisions that impact not just the health of American families but their livelihoods. We should welcome vigorous debate on the science the EPA relies upon. Doing so will result in regulations that have the greatest benefit to human health and the environment while doing the least harm to the economy. It will also result in regulations that can withstand legal challenges, providing industry with a level of certainty that allows them to make long-term investment decisions.” Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing entitled “Oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Implementation of Sound and Transparent Science in Regulation.” Today, we will hear testimony from experts and members of the scientific community in order to explore opportunities for greater transparency and the use of the best available science at the EPA. Regulations created by the EPA help to protect the American people from tainted water, dirty air and chemical exposure. The essential work completed by the EPA should always have as its basis protecting human health and the environment. However, in the past, I have been concerned that the broad discretion and lack of transparency at the EPA has led the agency to seek out the science that supports a predetermined policy outcome, rather than relying upon the best available science before coming to conclusions. Failing to do so results in regulations that overly burden our economy without having a substantial impact on human health or environmental protection. On April 30th, 2018, the EPA published a proposed rule entitled “Strengthening Transparency in Regulatory Science.” This proposed rule would require the EPA to identify what science they used to come to regulatory decisions, and make those studies available to the public without compromising privacy protections. The proposed rule would also require the EPA to take into account high quality studies that challenge current scientific assumptions. The proposal seeks to accomplish this without excluding historically relied upon studies by allowing the EPA Administrator to waive certain data access requirements on a case-by-case basis. I thank the EPA for taking this important step and look forward to hearing from our witnesses today about the proposed rule. In addition, on September 12th, 2017, I introduced S. 1794, the Honest and Open New EPA Science Treatment Act, commonly referred to as the HONEST Act. Companion legislation, H.R. 1430, was also introduced by Representative Lamar Smith. The HONEST Act passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support on March 29th, 2017. Both bills have been referred to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. The HONEST Act would prohibit the EPA from proposing, finalizing or disseminating regulations or guidance unless all scientific and technical information relied on to support those actions is based on the best available science. The bill also requires this information to be specifically identified and publicly available in a manner sufficient for independent analysis and substantial reproduction of research results. Finally, the HONEST Act requires the EPA to redact sensitive information such as personally identifiable information, trade secrets or commercial or financial information. It has been suggested by some that the EPA is incapable of providing greater scientific transparency because of privacy concerns. We have a responsibility to be sensitive to that issue, in part because we do not want to dissuade individuals from participating in environmental studies I believe the EPA should use as a model the privacy protections already used by other federal agencies, including the de-identification protocols employed by the Department of Health and Human Services. The EPA has a long history of creating burdensome, unnecessary regulations without giving the public an opportunity to fully vet the reasoning behind their decisions. We should all agree with providing greater transparency if it can be done without excluding legitimate scientific studies or compromising privacy. This is especially true if we can turn to other agencies like the National Institutes of Health for guidance on best practices. Sound, reliable science is vital to helping us make important policy decisions that impact not just the health of American families but their livelihoods. We should welcome vigorous debate on the science the EPA relies upon. Doing so will result in regulations that have the greatest benefit to human health and the environment while doing the least harm to the economy. It will also result in regulations that can withstand legal challenges, providing industry with a level of certainty that allows them to make long-term investment decisions. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being here with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Rounds Statement on Five-Year FAA Reauthorization Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Senate passage of the FAA Reauthorization Act, which reauthorizes federal aviation programs for five years. This legislation now heads to the president to be signed into law. “Making sure the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has the tools in place to modernize and improve U.S. aviation will benefit all air travelers,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased that the five-year FAA reauthorization bill passed by the Senate includes provisions I cosponsored to improve protections for volunteer pilots, recruit more airline maintenance workers and protect sports medical professionals traveling across state lines with their teams. It also includes reauthorization of the Essential Air Service Program, which is so important to a number of our rural communities in South Dakota. I thank Sen. Thune for his work on this important legislation and I look forward to President Trump signing this bill into law.” The FAA Reauthorization Act includes the following provisions cosponsored by Rounds: The Volunteer Pilot Protection Act, which states that volunteer pilots who fly for nonprofits are not liable for harm caused by their actions or omissions if they were in compliance with FAA requirements at the time, The Aviation Maintenance Workforce Development Pilot Program bill, which creates a grant program to recruit aviation maintenance workers, And the Sports Medicine Licensure Clarity Act, which clarifies medical liability rules for state-licensed medical professionals to cover the medical services they provide while traveling with athletic teams in another state. The FAA Reauthorization Act strengthens aviation training and improves cybersecurity. It also improves services for passengers by establishing minimum standards for airplane seat sizes. Language is also included to prohibit airlines from bumping passengers from a full flight after they have already boarded. The FAA Reauthorization Act does not include language to privatize Air Traffic Control, which Rounds has said would threaten affordable access to general aviation, especially in rural areas. ###
10.01.2018	10.01.18 Rounds: South Dakota Veterans Cemetery One Step Closer to Becoming Reality WASHINGTON–U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has signed off on the South Dakota state cemetery grant application. During a phone call with VA Undersecretary Randy Reeves last week, Reeves told Rounds that this puts the South Dakota state cemetery application on the priority list for grant funding. A grant could be awarded as early as next year. “The announcement that the VA has signed off on a South Dakota state cemetery grant application is great news for our veterans and their families,” said Rounds. “As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, this project has been a priority of mine, and I am happy to see it move forward. Once completed, this cemetery will not only serve as a final resting place for those who fought for our country, but it will be a place for all Americans to honor those who served. I thank the South Dakota Veterans Council, the South Dakota Department of Veterans Affairs and our local VSO chapters for their hard work on this important project.” South Dakota Veterans Cemetery: Background: Efforts have been ongoing for years to construct a veterans cemetery in the Eastern part of South Dakota. The estimated total cost is $6 million, with the federal government paying for most of the cost. The state would pay approximately $600,000. There are more than 40,000 veterans in Eastern South Dakota, with the only open national cemetery for veterans being in Sturgis. Though military veterans can be buried anywhere they want, to get full benefits from the government their grave must be in a state or national cemetery. This year, Governor Dennis Daugaard signed legislation to allow the state to apply to the National Cemetery Administration to construct a state veterans cemetery on land donated by the city of Sioux Falls. It would also set up an endowment fund to help pay the upfront costs of construction and maintain the cemetery. ###
09.26.2018	09.26.18 Rounds’ IHS Assessment Legislation Passes Out of Committee, Heads to Full Senate Floor Senate Indian Affairs Committee Votes to Send Bill to Full Senate for Consideration WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) announced that his legislation, S. 465, the Independent Outside Audit of the Indian Health Service Act, passed out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee today with broad bipartisan support. “South Dakota’s tribal members have been in the midst of a government-induced health care crisis for decades due to poor leadership and mismanagement at the Indian Health Service (IHS),” said Rounds. “Tribal members are suffering and even dying due to inadequate and disgraceful care. There is no excuse for hospitals not to reach basic benchmarks for providing proper care. Instead of threatening deadlines, requesting extensions, changing administrators and pointing fingers, the IHS, HHS and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) need to work together – in close, real consultation with the tribes - to immediately resolve these problems and improve care for our Native American communities.” “The IHS will continue to fail unless we take a close look into the operations, funding, quality of care and management at the agency. That is why I introduced legislation calling for a comprehensive assessment of the IHS. I’m pleased that the Senate Indian Affairs Committee voted to pass this legislation today, and I look forward to considering it on the Senate floor. This bill is a necessary first step toward making real changes so the IHS can truly deliver the timely, adequate care the federal government has a trust and treaty obligation to provide to tribal members.” Rounds’ legislation would require the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to contract an assessment of IHS’s health care delivery systems and financial management processes only at direct-care facilities. The Secretary of HHS shall use existing funds to enter into contracts with a reputable private entity to conduct an independent assessment in coordination with the U.S. Government Accountability Office and the Office of the Inspector General. Rounds’ request for a comprehensive assessment of the IHS is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association, which passed a resolution in 2016 calling upon Congress to demand an audit of IHS. In 2017, the South Dakota State Legislature passed a resolution urging Congress to audit the IHS. Since taking office in 2015, Rounds and his staff have analyzed the IHS and its shortcomings, concluding there are three primary areas of concern: there is no funding allocation strategy for the 12 IHS regions, there is no standard of quality measurement and there is high turnover of staff resulting in low accountability amongst management. Rounds’ assessment legislation is the first step toward addressing the agency’s longstanding failures. Rounds sent a letter to the Inspector General of HHS in 2016, requesting an audit of the financial aspects of hospital and health care, medical services and overall financial management at the IHS. The HHS was only able to fulfill a portion of the audit request. ###
09.26.2018	09.26.18 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at Cyber Subcommittee Hearing Purpose of Hearing to Review DoD Cyber Operational Readiness WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and chairman of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee, today delivered the opening statement at a joint Cybersecurity and Personnel Subcommittee hearing to review the cyber operational readiness of the Department of Defense (DoD). Rounds remarks, as prepared for delivery: The Cybersecurity and Personnel Subcommittees meet this afternoon to receive testimony on the cyber operational readiness of the Department of Defense. Our witnesses are: Brigadier General Dennis Crall, Principal Deputy Cyber Advisor and Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy; Ms. Essye Miller, Principal Deputy, Department of Defense Chief Information Officer; Lieutenant General Stephen Fogarty, Commander, U.S. Army Cyber Command; and Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Deputy Commander, United States Cyber Command. This hearing will commence in open session, in which Senators Tillis, Nelson and Gillibrand will all make a few opening remarks. At the conclusion of Senator Gillibrand’s comments, we will ask our witnesses to make their opening remarks. After that, we will have a round of questions and answers. We will then transition to SVC-217, the Office of Senate Security, and recommence in closed session. Each of the witnesses may provide additional context and testimony that they were not able to provide in an open setting, and we will then close with another round of Q&A. I encourage members and staff to stay through the closed session, given the gravity of the topic at hand. The administration recently issued a new policy document known as National Security Presidential Memorandum 13. The new policy entailed by NSPM 13 replaces that of Presidential Policy Directive 20 which virtually paralyzed the conduct of offensive operations by U.S. Cyber Command outside of armed conflict. I look forward to a Department of Defense briefing on the new policy in the near future. I am hopeful this new policy will enable the Department of Defense to act more nimbly and effectively to counter and deter our adversaries’ ongoing cyber-attacks on the United States, attacks conducted with virtual impunity. However no such policy, however well crafted, will succeed unless U.S. Cyber Command develops and maintains the high level of cyber operational readiness required to implement it. With the elevation of Cyber Command to status as a fully unified command and the Cyber Mission Force’s achieving full operational capability in May, the Department’s cyber forces appear to have moved beyond adolescence. It is now vital that the current capability and operational readiness of the command fulfill the requirements entailed by these designations. I invited Senator Tillis and Senator Gillibrand, along with the remainder of the Personnel Subcommittee, because these shortfalls are not limited to traditional readiness measures of equipment and training. Indeed, a great deal of the Department’s cyber readiness issues revolve around the shortage of skilled, cyber-capable personnel. These shortfalls will only be aggravated if the Cyber Mission Force needs to be expanded in the future, and I am concerned that the current recruitment, pay, retention and career pathway structures in place are not equipped to manage this problem. I am thus eager to hear the Service or tactical level perspective from General Fogarty; the operational Cyber Command’s perspective from General Stewart; the more strategic and governance perspective from General Crall in OSD; and the CIO and civilian personnel perspective from Ms. Miller. I am also eager to explore the Department’s plans to correct these shortfalls with the senators of the Personnel Subcommittee today, and I am grateful to have their expertise at this table. An ongoing concern of the subcommittee, which I am sure the department shares, is that we preempt a hollow cyber force and that we have a cyber force that is adequately staffed and equipped and has the necessary tools, targeting capability and development capability to respond to operational needs. In particular, Cyber Command needs the indigenous capability, without overreliance on NSA, to surveil adversary networks for zero-day vulnerabilities, produce malware to exploit these vulnerabilities and implant this malware within a reasonable and realistic timeline. Such capabilities are necessary not only for its DODIN-defense and national missions but also for those conducted in support of the combatant commands. I am eager to hear about CYBERCOM’s current capacity and activity to assist in EUCOM’s, PACOM’s and CENTCOM’s operations. Each of our witnesses have an important role to play in this space: General Stewart, as Deputy Commander of Cyber Command, is most directly responsible for the readiness of the Cyber Mission Force; General Crall’s role in defining DOD cyber policy shapes and is shaped by the capabilities offered by the Cyber Mission Force; General Fogarty as Commander of Army Cyber Command is the executive agent for the Persistent Cyber Training Environment and must man, train and equip its cyber teams; and Ms. Miller and the CIO’s office generally retain responsibility for the cyber infrastructure—including that on which the Cyber Mission Force will fight and test their malware—across the Department. I will close by thanking our witnesses for their service and for their willingness to appear today before the subcommittee. ###
09.18.2018	09.18.18 Rounds Accepting Spring 2019 Internship Applications **Deadline to apply is Oct. 15** WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for spring 2019. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is Monday, Oct. 15, 2018. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than Oct. 15, 2018. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Kari Weller at kari_weller@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Kari Weller at (605) 336-0486. ###
09.17.2018	09.17.18 Rounds, Hirono Introduce Bill to Provide Transparency to Veterans Considering Enrolling in School WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced the GI Bill Comparison Tool Improvement Act. This bill would increase transparency for veterans when choosing where to enroll in school by adding a metric to the GI Bill Comparison Tool identifying which educational institutions allow veterans to stay enrolled in classes pending receipt of GI Bill funds. “We want all veterans to have the tools necessary to be successful after their service to our country, and choosing where to get your degree is an important decision,” said Rounds. “Our legislation would provide helpful information and transparency to veterans about which schools will allow them to stay in classes while their GI Bill funds are being disbursed. It is unfortunate that this type of legislation is even necessary, but it’s important that measures are taken to make sure veterans are not unfairly punished because the VA can’t pay its bills on time. Veterans should not be penalized if the VA takes too long to pay the school for the tuition that the veteran has earned through his or her service to our country.” “Veterans in Hawaii and across our country depend on their hard-earned GI Bill benefits to help them achieve their educational and professional goals,” said Hirono. “The GI Bill Comparison Tool Improvement Act will provide veterans with clear information on how higher education institutions manage delayed GI Bill payments, which will enable veterans to make informed decisions and avoid costly late fees, debt, or even disenrollment.” ###
09.17.2018	09.17.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Comprehensive Legislation to Address Opioid Epidemic WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after the Senate voted to pass the Opioid Crisis Response Act, a comprehensive bill to address the growing opioid epidemic in the United States: “The legislation we passed today takes an important step toward ending the heartbreaking issue of opioid addiction,” said Rounds. “Opioid addiction does not discriminate—it can affect men and women of all ages and of all races, in any town in the United States, including in South Dakota. Many times, addiction starts with a legal painkiller prescription from a doctor following surgery or to manage chronic pain. Because opioids are highly addictive, they can easily lead to abuse. When the prescription runs out, people attempt to buy them illegally on the street or turn to dangerous substances such as heroin or fentanyl. I’m pleased that we were able to pass the Opioid Crisis Response Act and I urge the president to sign it into law so those suffering from addiction can get the help they need as quickly as possible.” The Opioid Crisis Response Act will: Reduce use and supply by helping to stop drugs at the border and providing grants to states to better share monitoring program data; It will encourage recovery by providing support to states and tribes, establishing recovery centers and improving access to health professionals, tele-health services and long-distance care, and recovery housing services; It includes support for caregivers and families and promotes family-focused treatment and recovery; and It seeks to drive innovation and long-term solutions by supporting advancements in cutting-edge research to spur discovery and development of new non-addictive painkillers and address economic and workforce impacts, among other things. ###
09.12.2018	09.12.18 Rounds Statement on Executive Order to Protect Election Security WASHINGTON- U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Executive Order President Trump signed to impose sanctions on foreign countries or people who interfere in U.S. elections: “Free and fair elections are a cornerstone of our republic. Today’s executive order draws a clear line in the sand and puts our adversaries on notice that we will not tolerate any meddling in our election process. All sanction possibilities are on the table for individuals or countries attempting to interfere. This is an important step in the right direction as we in Congress develop a long-term cyber deterrent policy, particularly when it comes to protecting the integrity of our election process. I am also pleased to see that any necessary response will be completed in a timely fashion.” Rounds previously cosponsored the Secure Elections Act, which was introduced earlier this year by Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and James Lankford (R-Okla.). This legislation would strengthen America’s election cybersecurity and protect against the possibility of future foreign interference by streamlining cybersecurity information-sharing between federal intelligence entities and state election agencies and providing security clearances to state election officials. ###
09.10.2018	09.10.18 Rounds Nominates the Roth Family of Summerset for Angels in Adoption Award PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he has nominated Wes and Kimberly Roth of Summerset for this year’s Angels in Adoption Award, presented by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCAI), of which Rounds is a member. Wes and Kimberly have two adopted children, Kaleb and Elsie. “I’m honored to nominate Wes and Kimberly Roth to be this year’s Angels in Adoption,” said Rounds. “Wes and Kimberly have not only created a loving home for Kaleb and Elsie, but they give generously of their time to provide guidance and insight to other families in South Dakota looking into adoption. The Roth’s are an inspiration for all of us, and they are deserving of this award for all they do to help others realize their dreams of starting a family.” In 2011, the Roth’s brought home their son Kaleb from Ethiopia. A few years later, they were called to adopt their daughter Elsie from China. Wes has worked in the office of Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) since 2005 as a constituent services representative, where he has assisted many adoptive families with immigration applications and paperwork. Outside of work, he volunteers his time at adoption events at church and serves on the Board of Directors for Bethany Christian Services Rapid City branch. Kimberly volunteers at adoption events throughout the Black Hills and has held fundraisers for families going through the adoption process. Kimberly also runs a Facebook group for adoptive families to give advice and answer questions about the complex process. Each year, Members of Congress are invited to nominate an outstanding family or organization from their district to receive an Angels in Adoption award. CCAI is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe and loving homes through adoption. For more information, visit CCAI’s website. ###
08.29.2018	08.29.18 Rounds Statement on Decision to Block Proposed Tariffs on Newsprint PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) stopped the proposed tariffs on Canadian newsprint. Earlier this year, Rounds joined Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) in a letter to the ITC urging the organization to oppose these tariffs. “We support the ITC’s decision to block tariffs on newsprint imported from Canada, which many of South Dakota’s local newspapers rely on to print their publications,” said Rounds. “These tariffs would have dramatically increased the cost of printing newspapers, having a significant impact on our rural newspapers in particular. I thank the South Dakota Newspaper Association and the many daily and weekly papers in South Dakota for their advocacy on this issue. Our local newspapers play an important role in keeping the citizens of our communities connected with one another. “ Rounds cosponsored S. 2835, the Protecting Rational Incentives in Newsprint Trade (PRINT) Act of 2018. This legislation, introduced by Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Angus King (I-Maine), would have suspended the import taxes on uncoated groundwood paper while the Department of Commerce examined the effects of tariffs on the publishing and printing industry. ###
08.27.2018	08.27.18 Rounds Statement on Proposed Trade Agreement with Mexico WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the administration’s announcement that the U.S. has reached a two-year trade agreement with Mexico. “As South Dakota’s top two export markets, maintaining strong trade relationships with Mexico and Canada is vitally important. Today’s announcement that a two-year trade deal has been reached with Mexico is a step in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go to provide long-term trade stability for our producers and manufacturers. I’m pleased the administration continues to work on long-term trade negotiations on behalf of our producers.” BACKGROUND: Mexico is South Dakota’s number two export market, after Canada, and has a long history of being one of our most important trading partners. Last year Mexico was the largest market for U.S. corn and soymeal, second largest market for U.S. soybeans and third largest market for U.S. beef. ###
08.25.2018	08.25.18 Rounds Statement on the Passing of John McCain FORT PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on the passing of U.S. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.): “John McCain was a true American hero who spent his life serving our country,” said Rounds. “Our men and women in uniform had no better ally than John McCain, and I am grateful for the opportunity to have served alongside him on the Senate Armed Services Committee. He leaves behind a legacy of leadership we can all admire. Jean and I send our deepest condolences to Cindy and the entire McCain family during this difficult time.” # # #
08.23.2018	08.23.18 Rounds Statement on HQLA Interim Final Rule WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today issued the following statement after the announcement of the interim final rule regarding the treatment of certain municipal securities as high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency: “The ability to access capital is critically important for communities across South Dakota and throughout the United States. I’m pleased that our nation’s three main regulators took this important step forward to implement my legislation that would require our regulators to treat financially-sound municipal debt as level 2B high-quality liquid assets.” “I look forward to continue working with our regulators on implementing this and other provisions that were a part of the Senate’s Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act. Rolling back regulatory overreach and helping communities, individuals and businesses access capital is critically important for the health of our economy.” ###
08.22.2018	08.22.18 Rounds Touts Jon Kobes’ Sound Counsel, Wide Range of Experience During Confirmation Hearing to be Circuit Judge on the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit Jon Kobes, of Sioux Falls, has served as Rounds’ General Counsel since 2014 WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced Jonathan A. Kobes at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Kobes, of Sioux Falls, serves on Rounds’ staff as general counsel. If confirmed, he will replace Judge Roger Wollman as a Circuit Judge on the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. “It is through his experience and our interactions working together that I am confident he possesses the essential qualities needed to excel as a federal judge,” said Rounds. “Over the past two decades, Jon has served in all three branches of the federal government, he has litigated on behalf of both plaintiffs and defendants in court, has litigated both criminal and civil cases, and he has represented clients as counsel both outside and in-house. There are few with as wide a range of experience and as academically qualified as Jon.” Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: I want to thank Chairman Grassley and Ranking Member Feinstein for holding today’s hearing. And I thank Senator Tillis and Senator Durbin for chairing, as well as allowing me to introduce a fellow South Dakotan, Jonathan Kobes, who also happens to be an integral member of my staff. I also want to thank President Trump for nominating Jon as a Circuit Judge on the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. I enthusiastically support his nomination. Today, Jon is joined by his father Wayne, his wife, Beth, their four children, Madeleine, Bethany, Johannah and James, in addition to other extended members of their family. I welcome you all here today. One member of Jon’s family who is not with us is his mother Helen, who passed away earlier this year after a 19-month battle with ALS. Helen was a Dutch immigrant, landing at Ellis Island with her parents when she was just two years old. Her family moved around until they settled in Southern California, where her father found a job as a laborer on a dairy farm. Eventually, that immigrant, who came to the U.S. with nothing, while supporting a family of eight, was able to work his way up to owning and operating two successful dairy farms. Seeking her own path to success in America, Helen eventually moved to Iowa to attend college – a first generation college student – where she met Jon’s father, Wayne, and they settled down to raise their family. Helen was full of determination and grit whose own experience instilled Jon’s strong, unequivocal belief in the American dream. Today, Jon is a resident of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, where he has spent nearly two decades developing an impressive legal acumen that spans a broad range of legal experience. In addition to working in the private sector, his experience in public service spans all three branches of the federal government. Jon has diligently and reliably served as my general counsel since 2014. Before joining my staff, Jon served as Director of Corporate Compliance at Raven Industries, Inc., as Senior Regulatory Counsel for DuPont Pioneer, and as Senior Counsel to POET, LLC. In these positions, he managed a range of litigation, regulatory and administrative law matters. He also provided complex legal advice and analysis to those major agricultural businesses within South Dakota. Jon has also been a litigation associate in the Sioux Falls office of Murphy, Goldammer and Prendergast, where he appeared before both State and Federal Courts in South Dakota. In the public sector, Jon served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota, where he prosecuted narcotics offenses and violent crime on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. He also served as an Honors Attorney in the Litigation Division of the Central Intelligence Agency, the CIA, in Washington, D.C. But his first taste of public service was actually right here in the Senate, where, as a law student, he spent a summer working as an intern for this very committee. Mr. Kobes earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from Dordt College in Northwest Iowa and his Juris Doctorate from Harvard Law School, where he served as an editor and as the business manager of the Harvard Journal of Law & Public Policy. Upon graduation from law school, Jon served as a law clerk to Judge Roger L. Wollman, of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, the very judge we hope Jon will replace. Throughout his career, Jon has demonstrated his commitment to justice, the fair application of the law and the betterment of the community by providing pro-bono legal services to those in need. Before and during his time working for me, I have always been impressed with Jon’s experience, competence, temperament, and ability to get work done in a thorough and conscientious manner. As my general counsel, I have had the privilege of his superior writing skills, thoughtful analysis, and ability to explain and present several sides of an issue fairly. It is through his experience and our interactions working together that I am confident he possesses the essential qualities needed to excel as a federal judge. Over the past two decades, Jon has served in all three branches of the federal government, he has litigated on behalf of both plaintiffs and defendants in court, has litigated both criminal and civil cases, and he has represented clients as counsel both outside and in-house. There are few with as wide a range of experience and as academically qualified as Jon. I wholeheartedly support Jon’s nomination as a Circuit Judge to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and hope you will support his nomination as well. Thank you for holding this hearing. # # #
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Rounds Meets with EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler Urges Action on Year-Round Sales of E15, Presses for Answers on Small Refinery Waivers WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee and Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today met with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler to discuss a number of issues important to South Dakotans, including year-round sales of E15, small refinery waivers and the proposed rewrite of the Clean Power Plan. “I thank Acting Administrator Wheeler for meeting with me today for a candid conversation about EPA proposals that impact our state,” said Rounds. “I reiterated to him my support of year-round sales of E15, and we also discussed my concerns with the EPA’s decision to issue Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) waivers to small refineries. In issuing these waivers, the EPA helped the small refineries. It now must act to help our small ag producers. As I told Acting Administrator Wheeler again today, corn ethanol production has created thousands of jobs for South Dakotans and has increased American energy independence—two major goals of this administration. We also discussed the EPA’s new proposal to replace the previous administration’s costly Clean Power Plan, and I thanked him for taking steps to provide cheaper, cleaner and more reliable energy that will strengthen our economy. I look forward to continuing to work with Acting Administrator Wheeler to promote South Dakota’s energy and environmental priorities.” ###
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Rounds Statement on EPA’s Proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee and Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today issued the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule. The ACE rule, if adopted, would replace the previous administration’s Clean Power Plan (CPP) rule. “The previous administration’s costly and burdensome Clean Power Plan was a prime example of ‘government-knows-best’ rule-making. Not only did it threaten job creation and economic growth, it was a recipe for sky-high electricity costs for American families and businesses. We were glad to see the rule was halted by the Supreme Court after more than two dozen states called for it to be stopped. The new proposed ACE rule respects the rights of individual states in setting energy policies that work best for them. I support the current administration’s goal of providing affordable energy to South Dakota families while at the same time working to protect our environment and natural resources.” In January 2017, Rounds joined all Republican members of the EPW Committee in a letter to President Trump supporting repeal of the Clean Power Plan rule. In March 2017, President Trump issued an executive order to suspend, revise or rescind four actions related to the Clean Power Plan. The proposed ACE rule will be open for public comment for 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. More information on the proposed rule and the comment period can be found here. ###
08.13.2018	08.13.18 Rounds Statement on NDAA for Fiscal Year 2019 Being Signed Into Law Includes a number of Rounds’ provisions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee, today made the following statement after President Trump signed the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019 into law. “The NDAA is one of the most important pieces of legislation we pass each year, as it provides our military personnel with the tools they need to complete their missions and keep us safe,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased that this year’s NDAA includes a number of provisions I offered pertaining to cold spray repair technology developed in Rapid City that will be used to improve Department of Defense (DoD) repair processes, as well as additional measures to improve officer personnel management, transition of service members to civilian life, training ranges and high level maintenance. Additionally, it includes a provision that will allow the DoD to conduct clandestine cyber operations necessary to help keep Americans safe. This year’s NDAA was named for the first time in honor of SASC Chairman John McCain, an American hero and statesman who has always put the good of the country first.” The NDAA authorizes $716 billion in defense spending, prohibits a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round and provides a 2.6 percent pay raise to military members. ###
08.13.2018	08.13.18 Senator Rounds to Host Tele-Townhall on Wednesday PIERRE – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) is inviting all South Dakotans to join him in a live, toll-free tele-townhall on Wednesday, Aug. 15, 2018, at 7:55 p.m. CT/6:55 p.m. MT to discuss issues important to South Dakotans. During the tele-townhall, Rounds will be taking live questions from participants. “During my coffee and conversation in Sioux Falls last week, I enjoyed hearing firsthand from South Dakotans about their issues and concerns,” said Rounds. “This year, the Senate’s traditional August in-state work period was shortened so we can continue focusing on getting appropriation bills and nominations passed. This means I have to be working in Washington, D.C. In order to keep open the lines of communication with South Dakotans, I am hosting a live, toll-free telephone townhall this week. All are invited to participate in this event, and more information can be found on my website, www.rounds.senate.gov. I look forward to answering your questions and listening to your concerns!” You can participate in the tele-townhall by calling the number or clicking on the link below: What: Tele-townhall When: Wednesday, Aug. 15, 2018, at 7:55 p.m.—8:55 p.m. CT/6:55 p.m.—7:55 p.m. MT Call #: 877-229-8493 Pin #: 115923 Participate online: https://video.teleforumonline.com/video/streaming.php?client=15923 If you are unable to join the call but would like to leave a message for Senator Rounds, you can always contact him by calling one of his offices or emailing him on his website at www.rounds.senate.gov. **Please note that the phone line will go live approximately 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. ###
08.13.2018	08.13.18 8 South Dakota Students Nominated by Rounds in Class of 2022 at U.S. Service Academies Deadline for Class of 2023 applications due Oct. 1, 2018 PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that eight South Dakota students he nominated to the U.S. Service Academies have been accepted and are currently in the Class of 2022. He also announced that his office is now accepting applications for the Class of 2023. Those applications must be submitted by Oct. 1, 2018. More information about the academy application process can be found here. The following students were nominated by Rounds and are currently in the class of 2022 at their respective academies: U.S. Naval Academy Jennifer Chatwell, Sioux Falls Silvanus “Silas” Diaz, Rapid City Justice West, Piedmont U.S. Military Academy Cain Lounsbery, Brookings Coby Mack, Rapid City Jayden Pittmann, Baltic U.S. Air Force Academy Caleb Carnes, Beresford Ryan Habeck, Ft. Pierre Additionally, Rounds nominated Tessa Kimbler of Aberdeen to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy and she chose to attend the U.S. Military Academy. He also nominated Ryan Berry of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy and he chose to attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy as a member of the Class of 2023. Each year, Rounds is able to nominate South Dakota students to the U.S. service academies. Each academy then gives full and fair consideration to these nominations when selecting applicants. Questions about the academy nomination application process can be directed to our Sioux Falls office by calling (605) 336-0486 or by emailing Academy_Nominations@rounds.senate.gov. ###
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Rounds, Colleagues Urge Funding of Snowpack Monitoring System to Help Avoid Future Flooding Along Missouri River WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D) led a letter urging the conferees of the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to include a provision in the final conference report that clarifies that funds under the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) operation and maintenance account are available to implement a snowpack and soil moisture monitoring system. This language was included in the report accompanying the Senate-passed version of the bill at the request of Rounds. Rounds serves as Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, which has oversight jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. A snowpack monitoring system will help mitigate the possibility of a major flood event for those living and working along the Missouri River. “Prompted by the devastating flooding along the Missouri River in 2011, the Government Accountability Office released a report in September 2014 that concluded that the USACE’s flood prevention mission would likely benefit from the development and implementation of forecasting techniques,” wrote the senators. “Congress has taken action to facilitate USACE’s adoption of this program. Therefore, we respectfully request that you incorporate this report language into the final conference report.” In addition to Rounds, the letter was signed by Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and John Hoeven (R-N.D.) and Reps. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), Kevin Kramer (R-N.D.), Steve King (R-Iowa) and Sam Graves (R-Mo.). Since taking office, Rounds has called on the USACE to implement the snowpack monitoring system, which was first authorized in a 2014 water resources bill. Text of the letter is below: Dear Conferee, As the conference process moves forward for the fiscal year 2019 energy and water development appropriations legislation, we ask that you retain language from the Senate committee report in the final conference report. Language informing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) that the previously-authorized soil moisture and snowpack monitoring program is eligible for funding from the USACE’s Operation and Maintenance account was included in the Senate energy and water development appropriations legislation (S. Rept. 115-258): “Soil Moisture and Snowpack Monitoring Program.--Following the 2011 Missouri River Flood, the Government Accountability Office released a report concluding that increased soil moisture and snowpack monitoring could have mitigated the impact of the flood on communities along the Missouri River. Accordingly, WRRDA section 4003 authorized a soil moisture and snowpack monitoring program to be administered by the Corps in coordination with the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration, the Natural Resources Conservation Service, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the Bureau of Reclamation. Section 1179 of the WIIN Act identified the Corps as the lead agency for carrying out and coordinating this monitoring program. Activities necessary to carry out soil moisture and snowpack monitoring are eligible for funds provided in this account. The Corps is also encouraged to provide sufficient funding in future budget submissions for this program.” Prompted by the devastating flooding along the Missouri River in 2011, the Government Accountability Office released a report in September 2014 that concluded that the USACE’s flood prevention mission would likely benefit from the development and implementation of forecasting techniques. Congress has taken action to facilitate USACE’s adoption of this program. Therefore, we respectfully request that you incorporate this report language into the final conference report. Sincerely, ###
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Selection Process for United States Senate Youth Program is Underway WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) announced the annual statewide selection process for the United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) has begun. Two South Dakota high school juniors or seniors will join student delegates from around the country to participate in the USSYP’s 57th annual Washington Week, which will take place March 2-9, 2019, in Washington, D.C. “Participating in the U.S. Senate Youth Program is a great way for students to learn firsthand about the way our federal government works,” said Rounds. “I encourage any South Dakota high school student who has an interest in learning more about policy making and public service to apply to this unique, educational program.” “This program provides the opportunity of a lifetime for young leaders from South Dakota to get a firsthand look into the inner workings of the U.S. government,” said Thune. “On top of spending a week in the thick of the action in Washington, students participating in USSYP will also receive a scholarship to help further their educational pursuits. I encourage all student leaders across the state to apply.” Each of the student delegates will receive a $10,000 undergraduate college scholarship and an all-expense paid trip to Washington, D.C., for next year’s program. During their trip to Washington, student delegates will visit Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon, and the Supreme Court, among other locations, and will meet with policymakers, which in the past have included members of Congress, the president, and cabinet secretaries. Students interested in applying for next year’s program can find more information by visiting the South Dakota Department of Education website or by contacting Mark Gageby (mark.gageby@state.sd.us), the South Dakota selection administrator, or their school’s principal. The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, September 21, 2018, and the names of the students who have been selected will be formally announced in December. ###
08.06.2018	08.06.18 Rounds Announces New Northeast Area Regional Director PIERRE - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Jennifer Hieb has been hired to serve as his Northeast Area Regional Director. She replaces Josh Haeder, who is stepping down later this month, and is based in Rounds’ Aberdeen office. “Jen has served in a variety of marketing and leadership roles throughout her career,” said Rounds. “Her experience, along with her desire to serve others, will be a tremendous asset to my office and the Northeast region. I look forward to having Jen join our team as we continue to provide the best possible constituent services across the state.” Hieb most recently served as secretary for the School of Education at Northern State University. She previously worked as director of marketing for Aberdeen Wings of the NAHL and as Vice President for Advancement at Presentation College. A native of Tripp and graduate of Augustana University in Sioux Falls, Hieb has lived in Aberdeen with her husband, Jack, and their three sons for more than 20 years. ###
08.03.2018	08.03.18 Rounds, Whitehouse, Alexander, Booker Introduce IMAGINE Act to Spur Use of Innovative Materials in Rebuilding American Infrastructure WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.) have introduced the Innovative Materials for America’s Growth and Infrastructure Newly Expanded (IMAGINE) Act, to encourage research and deployment of innovative construction materials in transportation and water infrastructure projects nationwide. Investing in these new techniques and materials would help to extend the life of critical public works that draw increasingly poor ratings for condition and performance. The bill would take a number of steps to promote the use of advanced infrastructure materials. It would create a task force to examine standards and methods used to assess the federal government’s approval of materials for infrastructure projects. It would promote research into new materials and building techniques. And it would spur federal investment in vital bridge and water infrastructure projects that utilize innovative materials, prioritizing coastal and rural projects. “I strongly support investing in material research and the use of new technologies that can be used to improve our critical infrastructure,” said Rounds. “As we continue to work toward a long-term infrastructure plan that enhances public safety, creates jobs and strengthens our economy, our bill will help pave the way for a stronger, safer and more cost effective infrastructure system.” “American innovators have come up with materials with the potential to make our roads, bridges, water systems, and other important infrastructure far more resilient and safe. Using these materials in our public works will pay off big for the communities that rely on them and for the American taxpayer,” said Whitehouse, who has worked closely with Rhode Island’s vibrant composites manufacturing industry to explore the range of applications for advanced materials in America’s infrastructure. “I’m proud to join Senators Alexander, Rounds and Booker to help drive investment in the next generation of materials to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure.” “When I was governor, I proposed and Tennessee enacted three road programs, and our state’s highway system is now one of the best in the country. Good roads and zero road debt have helped attract manufacturing jobs and raise family incomes,” said Alexander. “Research universities and national laboratories are our country’s ‘secret weapons’ — and this bill will help them develop new materials to improve our nation’s roads and bridges so we can continue to create more good paying jobs.” The IMAGINE Act would encourage the development of materials such as high performance asphalt mixtures and concrete formulations, geo-synthetic materials, advanced alloys and metals, reinforced polymer composites, aggregate materials and advanced polymers. A section-by-section summary of the bill is available here. A copy of the bill is available here. A range of stakeholders from innovative materials industries cheered introduction of the bill. The American Chemistry Council, the American Coatings Association, the American Composites Manufacturers Association, the Geosynthetic Materials Association, LafargeHolcim, the National Asphalt Pavement Association, the Owens Corning Plastics Industry Association and the Vinyl Institute welcomed introduction of the bill in a letter to the senators sent this week. “For years, we have encouraged Congress to think outside the box to develop infrastructure legislation that incentivizes the increased use of innovative materials,” said Tom Dobbins, President of the American Composites Manufacturers Association. “The IMAGINE Act does exactly that, and our allies in Congress understand the urgency of this issue and will fight to ensure the bill passes.” “Federally-led research has led to the deployment of longer-lasting, sustainable, and cost-effective pavement materials being deployed across the country,” said Craig Parker, National Asphalt Pavement Association Chairman and Executive Vice President of Silver Star Construction Co., Inc. “This research has led to great advances in both the materials and construction techniques being used in America’s highway pavements. Federally funded research has the effect of bringing various stakeholders together to imagine the possibilities and develop useful, practical technologies that can be deployed in the field. While great strides have been made in developing pavement technologies that increase the use of recycled asphalt pavements and deploying warm-mix asphalt, the IMAGINE Act will lead the way in developing the next generation of pavements that will be even more safe, more sustainable and more economical. This is an important topic that Congress is finally addressing under the leadership of Senator Whitehouse and others and should be supported by all members of Congress.” One provision of the bill would call on the Transportation Secretary to form innovative material hubs throughout the country to continue to drive research into and development of innovative materials for use in infrastructure projects. The provision was inspired by the success of communities of materials manufacturers – like advanced composites makers in Rhode Island and the Institute for Advanced Composites Manufacturing Innovation in Knoxville, Tennessee – that have leveraged their innovations and expertise to grow their industry. Representatives Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), David Cicilline (D-RI) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA) will introduced companion legislation in the House on Friday. ###
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Rounds to EPA: You’ve Taken Care of Small Refineries, but What About Small Farmers? WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today at a hearing had the opportunity to discuss the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and exemptions issued for small refineries with Acting Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Andrew Wheeler. Excerpts of his remarks: Rounds on small refinery waivers: “You’ve taken care of the small refineries - what about the small farmers? What about the folks that are producing on a year-to-year basis, just enough to get by, at a time in which we’ve got trade issues in front of us, at a time in which they expected that a [Renewable Volume Obligation of 15 billion gallons] would be honored by the federal government…you’ve taken care of the small refineries but you haven’t taken care of the small farmers.” Rounds on the RFS: “It is critical that the Renewable Fuel Standard remain in effect and that it be honored, and that it be something that producers in the central part of the country can count on. They’ve invested billions of dollars in creating an ethanol industry and one that they had expected to be in until at least the year 2022. If we read this correctly, there clearly was the intent of Congress that there be for traditional ethanol production a 15 billion gallon allowance.” The RFS has provided the statutory certainty necessary for the corn industry to grow and thrive, and as a result corn ethanol has become a vital component of our nation’s fuel supply. Earlier this year, it was reported that the EPA is providing RFS waivers to refineries, thereby reducing the amount of ethanol required by the RFS and reducing the demand on corn and corn ethanol. Following these reports, Rounds sent a letter reiterating his strong support for the RFS and asked for more information regarding the unusually high number of small refinery waivers issued over the past two years. Acting Administrator Wheeler committed to responding to the letter during their exchange.
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Rounds: Senate Continues to Make Progress on Being More Accountable to American Taxpayers WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after the Senate passed H.R. 6147, a package of four Fiscal Year 2019 appropriation measures. “The Senate has been working under ‘regular order’ to finalize appropriation bills, which is what I have been calling for since I took office in 2015,” said Rounds. “I’m glad we are continuing to make progress by working in a transparent, bipartisan manner as we read and debate important funding bills. Getting back to regular order is a good way for Congress to keep its spending in check and be more accountable to American taxpayers.” The appropriation package passed by the Senate today will now go to conference with the House. It includes the following appropriation measures: Interior and Environment, Financial Services and General Government, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Agriculture. ###
07.31.2018	07.31.18 Rounds, Duckworth Introduce Options Markets Stability Act Legislation aims to facilitate liquidity in options markets by calling on bank regulators to tailor capital requirements WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, and Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) introduced the bipartisan Options Markets Stability Act. The Options Markets Stability Act would facilitate liquidity in options markets by calling on bank regulators to move toward a newer, internationally accepted risk-sensitive accounting standard. “The current bank risk exposure regulations have had the impact of directing capital away from centrally cleared options markets,” said Rounds. “This has had the effect of hampering liquidity and violates one of the principles of post-crisis regulation: strengthening centralized clearing and avoiding riskier over-the-counter trading. The lack of liquidity can, in the most extreme cases, lead to flash crashes, which threatens the broader stability of our markets. The Federal Reserve agreed in 2014 to move towards the internationally accepted, risk-sensitive standardized approach to counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR). Since that time, however, the Fed has delayed implementing the new standard. I’ve asked the Fed repeatedly about its timeline for adoption and received no response. American investors can’t continue to wait. Our commonsense legislation would modify current capital requirements to reflect actual risk and would strengthen and safeguard our economy.” “This bill will streamline the regulatory process to guarantee the viability of centrally-cleared options markets while maintaining the safety and soundness of our financial system. These are important steps to help businesses in Illinois and across the country grow and have access to capital,” said Duckworth. “I’m proud to work with Senator Rounds on this bipartisan legislation.” The Options Markets Stability Act has the support of the Chicago Board Options Exchange. The House Companion, H.R. 5749, was passed unanimously by the House of Representatives earlier this year. ###
07.25.2018	07.25.18 Senate Resolution Declares July 28 “National Day of the American Cowboy” Cosponsored by Rounds, Resolution Pays Tribute to the Men and Women who Helped Settle the American West WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) is a cosponsor of a resolution passed by the Senate unanimously that declares July 28, 2018, the National Day of the American Cowboy. This is a tribute to the hard working men and women that helped settle the American West. The resolution honors the culture, traditions and values of the American Cowboy way of life that are still alive today. The resolution states that “the cowboy embodies honesty, integrity, courage, compassion, respect, a strong work ethic, and patriotism,” and that the cowboy archetype “transcends ethnicity, gender, geographic boundaries, and political affiliations.” ###
07.25.2018	07.25.18 Rounds Meets with Supreme Court Nominee Judge Kavanaugh WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on his meeting with Judge Brett Kavanaugh, President Trump’s nominee to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court: “I appreciate the opportunity to meet with Judge Kavanaugh today. We had a wide-ranging discussion regarding privacy, states’ rights and regulatory overreach by the executive branch. Now more than ever, we need a strong justice who will uphold the Constitution as it was written. Judge Kavanaugh is a highly-qualified candidate who is committed to upholding the rule of law, rather than legislating from the bench. I look forward to supporting his nomination to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.”
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Senate Confirms Robert Wilkie to Lead VA WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today voted in favor of Robert Wilkie to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). He was confirmed by the Senate 86-9. “Mr. Wilkie is well-qualified to lead the VA at a time when the agency is attempting to return to its mission of serving our nation’s veterans. During his confirmation hearing, I shared with Mr. Wilkie my concerns regarding the VA MISSION Act and reiterated my interest in working directly with the VA to address them to make sure care for our veterans is priority number one. Mr. Wilkie is the right person at this time to lead the VA.” ###
07.18.2018	07.18.18 Rounds, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Cyber Subcommittee, Signs Onto Secure Elections Act WASHINGTON- U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee, today signed onto the bipartisan Secure Elections Act. This legislation would strengthen America’s election cybersecurity and protect against the possibility of future foreign interference by streamlining cybersecurity information-sharing between federal intelligence entities and state election agencies and providing security clearances to state election officials. “Free and fair elections are a cornerstone of our democracy,” said Rounds. “Countless Americans have died fighting for our ability to choose our leaders safely, freely and with high confidence in our system. Our adversaries are attacking our election system. While each state should continue to independently take responsibility for its own election process, we can help improve security by taking necessary steps to help safeguard our system and protect our democracy. Our legislation accomplishes this by streamlining information-sharing between intelligence agencies and providing states with additional tools to upgrade election security.” The Secure Elections Act was introduced earlier this year by Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and James Lankford (R-Okla.). In addition to Rounds, the bill is cosponsored by Sens. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), Kamala Harris (D-Cali.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.). ###
07.17.2018	07.17.18 Rounds Selected to Serve on NATO Observer Group WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced that he will serve on the Senate North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Observer Group. “The United States and our NATO partners continue to face new and emerging threats from our adversaries,” said Rounds. “By re-establishing the NATO Observer Group, the Senate will be able to obtain timely information on the important decisions being made and the threats we face. I look forward to being a part of this group as we work to further strengthen our strong bond with our NATO allies, promote peace and combat global security concerns.” The Senate NATO Observer Group was first established in 1997 to serve as a connection between the Administration, NATO and the U.S. Senate. The Senate NATO Observer Group has been re-established since, in 2002, but was disbanded in 2007 due to a lack of NATO enlargement rounds. It was re-established by Sens. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) earlier this year with the support of Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. The Senate NATO Observer Group has an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. ###
07.17.2018	07.17.18 Rounds Questions Fed Chair on Economic Growth During Banking Committee Hearing Expresses Concern About Instability in Trade Markets WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today questioned Jerome Powell, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, about the positive impact the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has had on our economy. The two agreed that the tax law, in addition to other policies, is having a positive effect on our economy. Rounds also expressed concern for the impact that trade instability is having on our ability to reach our full economic potential. Powell concurred, saying that businesses are clearly looking for stability. Rounds: “I just want to be clear. That tax bill had a positive impact, even if it’s the anticipation of the tax bill, it had a positive impact on our GDP growth, correct?” Powell: “This year, yes. Maybe last year too.” Rounds: “With regard to trade…there is perhaps some instability or questions on the part of our businesses and business around the world. Are businesses looking for stability with regard to trade pacts, or opportunity in instability?” Powell: “They’d clearly be looking for stability.” ###
07.16.2018	07.16.18 Rounds Statement on Trump-Putin Meeting WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee, issued the following statement about President Trump’s meeting with Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland, earlier today. “Make no mistake: Russia is not our friend. Our poor relations are a direct result of their continued destabilizing behavior throughout the world. It is clear that Russia attempted to directly influence the 2016 election process. There is value in seeking to improve relations with Russia, but the U.S. must make clear that their irresponsible behavior on the world stage will not be tolerated.” ###
07.11.2018	07.11.18 Delegation Urges President to Prioritize U.S. Agriculture During Trade Negotiations WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today strongly urged President Trump to make U.S. agriculture exports a priority with our trading partners around the world. Recent market uncertainty has already cost South Dakota producers hundreds of millions of dollars, and the delegation hopes this letter serves as a reminder to the president that this industry cannot afford to be further entangled in global trade disputes. “We appreciate and support your administration’s efforts to address a broad spectrum of trade inequities,” Thune, Rounds, and Noem wrote. “We do not support, however, making agriculture exports, which have been the exception to such trade inequities, bear the brunt of retaliatory actions in response to current U.S. trade policies … As you continue to pursue trade negotiations to address unfair trade practices and other trade barriers, we strongly urge you to make U.S. agricultural exports a priority of those negotiations and to negotiate with our trading partners to protect agriculture products from all existing and future tariffs.” Full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: Over the past several months, we have expressed serious concern that the steep drop in commodity and livestock prices linked to current U.S. trade policies and recently effectuated sanctions could push an alarming number of our state’s farms, ranches, and rural areas to the brink of economic collapse. According to a recent CoBank news release, “uncertainty around trade presents escalating concern to U.S. agriculture. Seventy percent of U.S. agriculture exports are to destinations that are in current negotiation or trade disputes, according to the most recent Rural Economic Review from CoBank’s Knowledge Exchange Division.” Further, a July 2, 2018, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Economic Research Service (ERS) report provides, “Lower commodity prices in the near future could likely further reduce farm receipts, making it more difficult for some farmers to meet their loan obligations and pay for production expenses.” Against this backdrop, the 2018 winter wheat harvest has begun in South Dakota, with other crop harvests to continue over the next four to five months. Harvest typically marks the beginning of a very critical period of economic uncertainty for farmers and ranchers in a normal year, as operating loans and production and harvest expenses are coming due before year’s end. Unfortunately, this uncertainty is now unnecessarily exacerbated by U.S. trade policies. Agriculture is South Dakota’s number one industry and the cornerstone of its economy. South Dakota ranks in the top ten states in producing cattle, hogs, corn, wheat, and soybeans with more than 11 million acres of these three crops planted in 2018. Because of our state’s dependency on agriculture exports, our producers can no longer continue to “wait and see” what happens with U.S. trade in the global arena. Trade uncertainty over just the past few months has cost South Dakota farmers and ranchers hundreds of millions of dollars they could not afford to lose. We appreciate and support your administration’s efforts to address a broad spectrum of trade inequities. We do not support, however, making agriculture exports, which have been the exception to such trade inequities, bear the brunt of retaliatory actions in response to current U.S. trade policies. Although you have stated that the agriculture sector will be taken care of through some form of USDA assistance, please keep in mind that U.S. export market share is diminishing daily at an alarming rate, and history has proven that once lost, export markets can take years, even decades to recapture. Given the already difficult market conditions for farmers and ranchers over the past several years, long-term damage to agricultural export opportunities is the last thing the industry needs. As you continue to pursue trade negotiations to address unfair trade practices and other trade barriers, we strongly urge you to make U.S. agricultural exports a priority of those negotiations and to negotiate with our trading partners to protect agriculture products from all existing and future tariffs. Sincerely, ###
07.11.2018	07.11.18 Rounds Joins Group of Senators in Introducing Resolution to Support ICE WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined a group of senators in introducing a resolution denouncing the radical calls for the dissolution of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agents play a vital role in the defense of our country,” said Rounds. “Not only do they work to safeguard our borders, they keep our communities safe and help rescue vulnerable children and human trafficking victims. Without the brave men and women of ICE, our borders would be essentially wide open for terrorists and other criminals who are intent on doing harm to Americans. Last year alone, ICE agents made approximately 5,000 gang arrests, seized nearly a million pounds of narcotics and rescued over 1,000 human trafficking victims and children subject to exploitation. I support our law enforcement officers at ICE who put themselves in danger every day to defend our borders and keep our communities safe.” The resolution, led by Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.), was also cosponsored by Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Roy Blunt (R- Mo.), Tom Tillis (R-N.C.) Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Steve Daines (R-Mont.) and Ron Johnson (R-Wis.). ###
07.10.2018	07.10.18 Rounds Statement on Committee Confirmation of Robert Wilkie to be VA Secretary Committee voted to send Wilkie’s confirmation to Senate floor WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today voted in committee to advance the confirmation of Robert Wilkie to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The full Senate will now have the opportunity to vote on his confirmation. “After meeting with Mr. Wilkie in my office recently, as well as questioning him during his confirmation hearing in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I voted to advance his confirmation to the Senate floor today,” said Rounds. “Mr. Wilkie is well-qualified to lead the VA at a time when the agency is attempting to return to its mission of serving our nation’s veterans. During his confirmation hearing, I shared with Mr. Wilkie my concerns regarding the VA MISSION Act and reiterated my interest in working directly with the VA to address them to make sure care for our veterans is priority number one. Mr. Wilkie is the right person at this time to lead the VA.” ###
07.09.2018	07.09.18 Rounds on Nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to Supreme Court WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) tonight issued the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy as an Associate Justice to the United States Supreme Court: “The president has announced his nominee, and now the Senate has a constitutional role of advice and consent. I take this responsibility very seriously. Confirming conservative, fair-minded judges who will adhere to the Constitution is one of the most important responsibilities of the United States Senate. I look forward to a thorough and rigorous confirmation process.” ###
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Rounds, Thune and Noem Express Support for New East River Veteran Cemetery Delegation requests consideration of new Sioux Falls cemetery through the VA Veterans Cemetery Grant Program WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today, in a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Undersecretary for Memorial Affairs Randy C. Reeves, expressed their support for the South Dakota Department of Veterans Affairs’ application to establish a new veterans cemetery in Sioux Falls. “We write in support of the South Dakota Department of Veterans Affairs’ (SDDVA) application for the establishment of a new veterans cemetery in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, through the Veterans Cemetery Grant Program,” the delegation wrote. “We respectfully ask that the National Cemetery Administration (NCA) give strong consideration to the SDDVA’s application when determining NCA’s priority list for fiscal year 2019. As the Congressional delegation for the state, we echo the hopes of regional veterans and their loved ones to one day establish a solemn testament to the service and sacrifice of South Dakota’s veterans.” ### Related Files E89C18D3DFD7FC3243DE43C22416B713.-untitled-.pdf
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Rounds on Meeting with CFPB Director Nominee Kathy Kraninger WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today issued the following statement following his meeting with Kathy Kraninger, nominee to be director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). “A product of Dodd-Frank, the CFPB was set up by the previous administration to be an unaccountable regulatory agency with no oversight from Congress,” said Rounds. “Under Acting Director Mick Mulvaney, the agency has charted a new course by rolling back harmful rules and bringing much-needed accountability and transparency to the agency. I believe Ms. Kraninger is an excellent choice to continue shaping this new path for the CFPB. If confirmed, I look forward to working with her in the future.”
06.26.2018	06.26.18 Rounds Statement on EPA’s RVO Proposal for 2019 WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), today made the following statement on the EPA’s Renewable Volume Obligation (RVO) proposed rule for 2019: “While I am pleased the EPA has proposed an increase in the RVO for 2019, until the agency answers how it intends to assure the 15 billion gallons in grain ethanol is met in light of reports of ‘hardship’ waivers being granted to small refineries, this is not something we can rely on. The ‘hardship’ waivers reportedly being granted exempt certain refineries from Renewable Fuel Standard compliance. These waivers have the potential to reduce domestic ethanol demand by billions of gallons, hurting South Dakota farmers and our state’s largest industry. “I wrote to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt earlier this year seeking more information on these reports, including how the EPA intends to make certain that despite these waivers, the demand for corn ethanol remains at 15 billion gallons annually. Making certain the EPA follows through on their obligation to corn and corn ethanol production remains a top priority.” The EPA’s 2019 RVO proposal would increase the total RVO by 3.1 percent over last year’s final rule, or 19.88 billion gallons. Conventional grain ethanol would remain the same, at 15 billion gallons. ###
06.26.2018	06.26.18 Delegation Encourages President to Quickly Approve South Dakota Disaster Declaration Gov. Daugaard Requested Declaration After Severe Thunderstorms and Flash Flooding on May 17 and 18 WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today, in a letter to President Trump, expressed their strong support for South Dakota Gov. Dennis Daugaard’s request for a major disaster declaration that would cover Campbell, McPherson, and Walworth counties in South Dakota. If approved, the federal disaster assistance would help communities recover from severe thunderstorms and flash flooding that occurred between May 17 and May 18, which caused significant damage. “We applaud the work of federal, state, county, and local entities in response to the storm system, as their efforts helped to mitigate the immediate impacts of the storm,” the delegation wrote. “However, the impact to public infrastructure across the three counties is severe. As Governor Daugaard indicated in his request, the storm was of ‘such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the state and the affected local governments, and supplemental federal assistance is necessary.’ This determination was reached on the basis of preliminary damage assessment completed by the state in cooperation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency.” ### Related Files 48BF8C3495DBBCB6A312011A6B14F0E7.-untitled-.pdf
06.25.2018	06.25.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Three Appropriation Bills WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after the Senate voted to pass the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriation bills: “Today, the Senate made a step in the right direction toward getting back to ‘regular order,’ where we debate appropriation bills individually,” said Rounds. “Responsible spending starts with a responsible appropriations process where Congress engages in thoughtful debate about how and where tax dollars are spent, rather than passing a two-thousand page long omnibus spending bill at the last minute.” “Since coming to the Senate, I've expressed my frustration with our broken appropriations system, which hasn't worked in 40 of the last 44 years that the current budget process has been in place. I’ll continue working with my colleagues in the Senate to push for open debate on each of the appropriation bills passed out of the Senate Appropriations Committee.” The legislation passed by the Senate today includes funding for the Long-Baseline Neutrino Facility and Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment at the Sanford Underground Research Lab in Lead. It also prioritizes funding for the snowpack monitoring system in the Upper Missouri River Basin for the Army Corps of Engineers so they can work to prevent flooding downstream in communities along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. Additionally, the package appropriates $15 million for a new National Guard Readiness Center in Rapid City. ###
06.21.2018	06.21.18 Rounds Statement on Supreme Court’s Decision on South Dakota v. Wayfair WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling on South Dakota v. Wayfair. The Supreme Court ruled in favor of South Dakota, paving the way for states to collect sales taxes from most online retailers. “Today’s ruling is a victory for brick-and-mortar stores across South Dakota, who now have an opportunity to be on a level playing field with online businesses,” said Rounds. “With online sales growing at four times the rate of retail sales in recent years, the state and local governments in South Dakota are losing between $48 and $58 million annually. By opening the door for states to collect online sales taxes, local governments will be able to receive additional resources to help pay for the education of our kids, maintain safety nets for individuals who can’t care for themselves and reinvest in our communities. “We congratulate South Dakota Attorney General Marty Jackley for his successful presentation before the United States Supreme Court.” Rounds has been a longtime advocate for granting states the right to require that out-of-state businesses collect state sales taxes on purchases sold in South Dakota. He is an original cosponsor of the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2017. Background: South Dakota v. Wayfair Today, The Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in favor of South Dakota, overturning a 1992 decision (Quill v. North Dakota) and paving the way for states to collect sales tax on goods sold within their borders from out-of-state online vendors. Quill v. North Dakota said that states could not collect sales taxes from retailers who do not have a physical presence in that state. Individuals who made purchases in the state, through out-of-state retailers, were still separately responsible to pay a use tax, but it would not be collected at the point of sale. The tax is often not paid, creating a tax loophole that treats out-of-state retailers different than local brick-and-mortar businesses, creating a price disadvantage. Some have argued that the complicated tax structures of state and local governments make it difficult for online vendors to comply, however there are web-based programs available to make this a smooth and simple transaction when paying for the online goods. ###
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Rounds: “Time is of the Essence” to Finalize Trade Deals WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) yesterday joined Bloomberg TV to discuss the need for the administration to finalize trade deals as soon as possible. “The president doesn’t think we’re getting good, fair trade deals and there are a lot of people in the United States who feel the same way,” said Rounds during the interview. “We’ll allow the administration time in which to put together their plan and their negotiations. But time is going to start running short - particularly in ag areas where we’re looking at this year’s production maturing. We’re looking at corn crops coming in, soybeans coming in. If we don’t have stability in this market in the near future, it’s going to start impacting our economy…We have to come to an agreement on how we move forward. Time is of the essence for many of us. We want to see our economy continue to grow.” ###
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Rounds, Colleagues Urge Senate to Pass the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined Sens. Mike Lee (R-Utah), Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.), John Kennedy (R-La.) and David Perdue (R-Ga.) in a press conference to urge their Senate colleagues to pass President Trump’s rescissions package, which seeks to cut approximately $15 billion in unused, unspent funds, or funds that cannot be used for the original purpose Congress intended. “While this legislation won’t fix our entire spending problem or dig us out of our $21 trillion debt, it does send a strong message that we are serious about getting our fiscal house in order and eliminating unnecessary spending by the federal government,” said Rounds. “Ultimately, our entire budget process needs to be reformed to truly get a handle on our budget crisis, but cutting $15 billion in unspent, unneeded spending is a commonsense step toward increasing our accountability to American taxpayers. I urge my colleagues to support this rescissions package, which has already passed the House and is supported by the president.”
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Rounds Statement on Family Separation at Border Agrees to cosponsor legislation to provide strong border security while keeping families intact during adjudication process WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement regarding the separation of families at the border: “Nobody wants to see families separated. Attempting to illegally enter the country is a crime that jeopardizes our national security. But we believe we can protect our borders while also showing compassion for the children who are in this situation through no fault of their own. The best course of action to stop family separation at the border is for Congress to act. There are already a number of commonsense solutions being considered that can both protect our borders and keep families intact, including the Cruz proposal which I have agreed to cosponsor.” Rounds agreed to cosponsor the Protect Kids and Parents Act, a proposal by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), which will: Double the number of federal immigration judges, from roughly 375 to 750. Authorize new temporary shelters, with accommodations to keep families together. Mandate that illegal immigrant families must be kept together, absent aggravated criminal conduct or threat of harm to the children. Provide for expedited processing and review of asylum cases, so that—within 14 days—those who meet the legal standards will be granted asylum, and those who do not will be immediately returned to their home countries. ###
06.18.2018	06.18.18 Vital National Security Legislation Passes Senate with Rounds’ Support WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, last week delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor regarding the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019. The NDAA passed the Senate tonight by a vote of 85-10. It now heads to a conference committee, where differences will be worked out with the House-passed NDAA. “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am pleased we as a committee have once again come together, in a bipartisan fashion, to advance the National Defense Authorization Act, a vital piece of legislation for our national security,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased we were able to put together legislation… that builds on last year’s efforts to provide adequate tools so our forces can fully rebuild our military and adequately address the challenges they face.” Video of Rounds' remarks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWndY9oFMh0&feature=youtu.be Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am pleased we as a committee have once again come together, in a bipartisan fashion, to advance the National Defense Authorization Act, or NDAA, a vital piece of legislation for our national security. I thank the chairmen and ranking members in both the House and Senate, for their leadership, Senator Inhofe, and the members on both sides of the aisle who have continued to work together on this important defense bill. Congress, as an institution, continues to come together each year to show our troops and their families that they have our full support. The federal government’s number one responsibility is to provide for the defense of our nation. This year’s NDAA, the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act, honors our Chairman who has dedicated his life to serving our country. Few people are more passionate about our troops and our military readiness than Chairman McCain and the courage he has exhibited during his years of service - and in his current battle – has inspired us all. I’m pleased we were able to put together legislation – bearing his name – that builds on last year’s efforts to provide adequate tools so our forces can fully rebuild our military and adequately address the challenges they face. But the most important capability we have is our people – the men and women in uniform who defend our nation - and the families who give them the strength to do so. That is why I am pleased this year’s NDAA includes a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops. We are also fortunate that the leader of our armed forces, Defense Secretary James Mattis, has provided us with a national defense strategy that clearly articulates the current and emerging threats we are facing. This strategy focuses on the central challenge facing our nation: the reemergence of long-term strategic competition with our near-peer competitors, such as Russia and China. It is our duty to provide Secretary Mattis and all of our troops with the tools they need to execute this strategy. The world is more dangerous than any time since the Cold War-era: China and Russia are both strategic competitors, great uncertainty remains on the Korean peninsula, Iran continues to threaten Middle Eastern stability, and our forces remain engaged in combat in Afghanistan and conducting counter-terrorism in multiple areas of operation. Our superiority in the maritime, air, ground, space and cyber domains – once taken for granted – are constantly challenged by our strategic and regional competitors. Even more concerning, the threat of sequestration and repeated Continuing Resolutions have prevented our troops from being fully equipped to prepare and defend against these threats. As a result, modernization, readiness and sustainment have all suffered. It is our duty to provide funding stability and avoid arbitrary budget caps that constrain defense spending below that which is required to protect our nation. Failure to provide adequate, stable funding disrupts planning, impacts responsible obligation of critical funding resources, degrades readiness and inhibits modernization. And there have been unimaginable real-world consequences. The high-operational demand with an insufficient fleet, over-burdened maintenance infrastructure, and an erosion of training all were factors in a string of recent Navy surface fleet incidents. The Marine Corps and Air Force have had their own serious readiness issues with the F-18 and B-1 fleets, which experienced multiple “Class A” accidents – some of which caused the loss of life. And, the shortage of pilot- in every service - is a strategic readiness concern that must be addressed. Our sailors, soldiers, airmen and marines deserve the very best in training and equipment. This year’s NDAA does that by providing a total of $716 billion dollars in fiscal year 2019 for national defense. Voting for this vital legislation is not an act of budget-busting. In fact, in 2010, we spent $714 billion dollars, just $2 billion dollars less than this year on national defense. But a dollar went a lot further back then. Adjusted for inflation, this bill actually authorizes more than $110 billion dollars less than in 2010. We are slowly digging ourselves out of a hole that has hollowed our armed forces. The real budget-busting is being done with mandatory spending. Since the Cold War, the stakes for failing to take decisive action have never been higher. This legislation will enable our armed forces to continue taking necessary steps to rebuild and restore our national security. For example, in the Navy, this year’s NDAA builds on last year’s bill to improve ship and aviation readiness and the infrastructure necessary to support the fleet – which directly addresses a significant problem the Armed Services Committee has examined in multiple hearings this year. Significantly, it improves the Navy's capacity to execute maintenance in Naval Shipyards by continuing to grow the workforce while investing in shipyard infrastructure, including facilities, equipment and information technology. This increase in workforce will help the Navy to meet scheduled ship maintenance, support additional ships, and reduce the backlog that has accumulated from over a decade of increased operational tempo. Similar plans to restore readiness will be executed across the force, so long as we honor our commitment to invest in a complete lifecycle acquisition system. As chairman of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am pleased that the NDAA includes important provisions that take steps to address the serious cyber threat our nation faces. This includes: providing the Secretary of Defense with the authority to conduct military operations in cyberspace, developing a program to establish cyber institutes at educational institutions, and investing in cyber programs in the defense industrial base. These are important steps we can take to defend the nation in the cyber domain. I am also glad that the bill we are considering today includes strategic measures I offered to improve officer personnel management and increase the capabilities of our training ranges throughout the DOD, to better support the objectives outlined in the National Defense Strategy. Today, a number of our personnel and training systems are outdated and fail to provide our forces with the tools they need on the modern battlefield. This bill changes that. While we champion this year’s bill, we must also extend our view beyond fiscal year 2019. We must be prepared for the future while reacting to the present, especially as it relates to funding. For the past three years, I have served as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, bearing witness to potential challenges that could threaten our national security if we do not address arbitrary budget caps placed on our defense. These arbitrary budget caps have forced the kind of false choices that are potentially so devastating for our armed forces. We must also avoid the false choice of paying for readiness while assuming risk for modernization or vice-versa. We cannot let the pursuit of the perfect modernization solution prevent us from implementing mature technologies – to address short-term capability gaps – now. The bill we are considering today avoids these choices. In closing, I thank Chairman McCain, Ranking Member Reed, Senator Inhofe and my other Armed Services Committee colleagues and everyone on staff for their work on this year’s NDAA. I look forward to getting this bill to the president’s desk in a timely manner as we continue our strong tradition of coming together, in a bipartisan basis, to support our troops and their families so that they can continue to keep us safe. ###
06.15.2018	06.15.18 Rounds, Jones Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Reform Living Will Submission Process for Financial Institutions WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Doug Jones (D-Ala.), members of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today introduced bipartisan legislation to reform the living will submission process. As a result of regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, large bank holding companies are required to prepare and submit ‘living wills’ to federal banking regulators that describe their resolution strategy in case of a crisis. The process prescribed by Dodd-Frank for submitting and evaluating living wills, however, has been so slow and complex that it has failed to make our banking system safer and detect true cases of systemic risk. “Making certain that financial institutions are prepared for times of crisis is vital to protecting customers, taxpayers and the American economy,” said Rounds. “However, the process to review living wills has been burdensome, inconsistent, and it is conducted behind closed doors. Without accountability and transparency in the ‘living will’ review process, we fail to achieve the goal of making our banking system safer. Our commonsense legislation follows guidance from Treasury and companion legislation unanimously approved by every Member of the House of Representatives to streamline the living will approval process without jeopardizing important protections.” “This bipartisan legislation makes common-sense updates to Dodd-Frank that will ultimately help make our banking system safer,” said Jones. “By allowing clear timelines for submission and feedback on living wills, this bill will help ensure that in the event of financial shock to our economy, banks have an approved plan for how they can be wound down – without requiring a taxpayer bailout. Having received unanimous support in the House of Representatives, I am hopeful the Senate will advance this legislation in the coming months.” This bill would require financial institutions to submit living wills on a two-year cycle, require federal banking regulators to provide feedback on living will submissions within six months and allow regulators to request additional information related to living wills on an as-needed basis. It also requires regulators to make public the process they use to review living wills. Companion legislation introduced by Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.) passed the House of Representatives 414-0 in January. ###
06.13.2018	06.13.18 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on Surplus Water Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered opening remarks at a hearing entitled “Oversight of the Army Corps’ Regulation of Surplus Water and the Role of States’ Rights.” Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing entitled “Oversight of the Army Corps’ Regulation of Surplus Water and the Role of States’ Rights.” Today, we are meeting to hear directly from stakeholders impacted by the regulatory decisions made by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Their testimony will provide the Subcommittee an opportunity to consider legislative changes available to Congress as well as the on-the-ground, real world consequences of decisions made by the Army Corps and their effect on states and municipalities. Section 6 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 authorizes the Army Corps to make available to states, municipalities and other entities surplus water stored in Army Corps reservoirs for municipal and industrial uses. The Flood Control Act also highlights the preeminent role of states and localities with regard to water rights, going so far as to state that it is the policy of the Congress to recognize the primary responsibilities of states and local interests with regard to water supply. In December 2016, in the waning days of the previous administration, the Army Corps published in the Federal Register a notice of proposed rulemaking entitled “Use of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Reservoir Projects for Domestic, Municipal & Industrial Water Supply.” This rulemaking sought to define “key terms” in the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the Water Supply Act of 1958. One of the key terms targeted by the proposed rule is “surplus water.” Surplus water appears undefined in Section 6 of the Flood Control Act. In the multi-decade period since the passage of the Flood Control Act, with the exception of the previous administration, the Corps has declined to define “surplus water.” In formulating the proposed rule, the Army Corps failed to take into account natural flows of the river system when defining surplus water. Congress clearly intended to recognize and reaffirm the constitutionally protected rights of states to the natural flow of water through these river systems. The proposed rule is an attack on these states’ rights and the states’ ability to access these natural flows. In the case of my home state of South Dakota, we live with a permanent flood as thousands of acres of productive farmland have been inundated to create the mainstem dams of the Missouri River. Last month, I was joined in a letter by South Dakota Governor Daugaard, Senator Thune, and Representative Noem in which we stated that 500,000 acres of our most fertile river bottomlands were permanently flooded as the reservoirs filled following construction of these dams. South Dakota’s citizens and tribal members were forced from their homes and communities. No one doubts the benefits of multi-use Army Corps projects, but they need to be taken into the proper historical context. In taking such an expansive view of what constitutes surplus water, and thus subject to federal control, the Army Corps clearly does not recognize the constitutionally protected rights of the states to the natural flows of the river system. Instead, the Army Corps is attempting to produce a system in which legitimate municipal and industrial projects cannot gain access to the water passing through the states by refusing to grant easements to gain access to these water resources. The Army Corps is currently creating barriers to legitimate water uses. Earlier this year, when South Dakota’s Game Fish and Parks Department requested access to an exceptionally small quantity of water from the Missouri River to construct a parking lot on government property adjacent to a reservoir, the Army Corps denied the request on the basis that this deeply flawed rulemaking had yet to be finalized. We all agree that the Army Corps has a legal right to regulate the use of water for authorized purposes such as flood control and hydropower generation. I am not seeking to divert any water away from congressionally authorized purposes. What I am concerned with, however, is the notion that the people do not have a right to access the water passing through their states outside of well-defined purposes authorized by Congress. Blocking access to such an important resource is in direct conflict with congressional intent. Preventing states from accessing the water they are entitled to is an attack on our federalist system of government. Let me be clear: it was never the intention of Congress to federalize all of the water in our country’s major rivers. Any rulemaking to the contrary is an attack on states’ rights and an unlawful taking by the federal government. My hope is that today’s hearing will shed light on this issue and motivate the Army Corps to consider promulgating rules more consistent with Congressional intent and the water rights of states. This also includes a review and discussion of the existing practice of the Army Corps denying access across their Take Land for legitimate purposes by the states and other approved users. ###
06.08.2018	06.08.18 Delegation Introduces Bills to Allow Tribal Grant Schools to Focus Resources to Improve Education Legislation would provide Federal Employee Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) eligibility for tribally operated grant schools WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today introduced Senate and House companion bills that would allow tribal grant schools to participate in Federal Employee Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) programs. This change would free up resources to improve recruiting and retention efforts for professional educators in rural communities by allowing schools to spend less on health care and more on education-specific items. The grant schools would be required to pay the government’s contribution toward the insurance premiums, and the employees would be responsible for the remaining balance. “Our legislation would allow employees at South Dakota’s 19 tribal grant schools to be eligible for federal health insurance programs,” said Rounds. “Under this bill, the schools would be required to pay the government’s contribution toward insurance premiums, and the employee would pay the remaining balance. This will save the schools thousands of dollars and improve teacher and administrator retention rates at tribal grant schools, which is an important factor in student success.” “We continue to work to ensure students in tribal communities have access to quality education, but meeting that goal comes with challenges,” said Thune. “This legislation makes an important investment in tribal youth by enhancing employee retention efforts and allowing tribal schools to prioritize funding for tangible education items to improve students’ overall learning experience.” “A good teacher can open the door to opportunity, hope, and upward mobility for students,” said Noem. “In many tribal communities, however, retaining good teachers is a challenge. By easing the financial burden on schools, I’m hopeful we can help them retain teachers with enhanced employee benefits while also preserving more resources for the classroom.” Currently, tribal schools are operated either directly by the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE); by tribes, through Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (P.L. 93-638) contracts; or through Tribally Controlled Schools Act (P.L. 100-297) grants, which are known as tribal grant schools. Currently, 129 schools nationwide operate as tribal grant schools, including 19 in South Dakota, while only one school operates through a 638 contract. BIE operates 53 tribal schools across the nation. ###
06.07.2018	06.07.18 Trump nominates Jon Kobes to Federal Judgeship WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the nomination of Jonathan Kobes to be a district judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Kobes currently serves as Rounds’ general counsel. “Jon’s wide range of experiences in both the public and private sectors provides a strong platform for this role as a judge,” said Rounds. “A lifelong conservative, he believes a judge's role is to make decisions based on the law as it is written, not to legislate from the bench. President Trump has done a tremendous job putting fair-minded, conservative judges on the bench, and nominating Jon Kobes upholds that standard. I’ve relied on Jon’s sound counsel and advice since coming to the Senate and look forward to supporting his nomination." ###
06.06.2018	06.06.18 DoT to fund Veterans Parkway Project in Sioux Falls Announcement Follows Rounds Request to Prioritize Project WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement regarding Department of Transportation (DoT) Secretary Elaine Chao’s announcement that the agency has proposed a $21 million grant to construct the Veterans Parkway Project in Sioux Falls. “I’m pleased Secretary Chao understands the importance of this project to Sioux Falls and Eastern South Dakota,” said Rounds. “This project will not only ease congestion and increase safety along the roads, it will allow for increased transport of goods and commodities – a surefire boon to the regional economy.” The Veteran’s Parkway Project will reconstruct the interchange on Interstate 90 at exit 402, rebuild the rural, two-lane highway into a four-lane divided highway and provide railroad-grade separation for the existing Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Ellis and Eastern Rail lines. Rounds sent a letter regarding the project. A copy of the letter can be found HERE.
05.31.2018	05.31.18 USDA Announces New Relending Pilot Program on Tribal Lands in South Dakota Decision Comes in Response to Delegation’s March 2018 Request for Implementation WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today welcomed U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue’s announcement that USDA, at the request of the delegation, will implement a new Section 502 relending pilot program on tribal lands in South Dakota. The USDA Rural Development (USDA-RD) Section 502 Direct Loan Program helps low-income families pursue home ownership. According to USDA, South Dakota and North Dakota are the only states that have been authorized for this pilot program. “Access to credit is critical for families who are trying to purchase a home,” said Rounds. “The USDA’s new Section 502 relending pilot program will help those living on tribal lands secure a home loan. We thank Secretary Sonny Perdue for his leadership on this initiative.” “Home ownership has always been part of the American Dream, and as a result of today’s announcement, more families throughout South Dakota will hopefully get the opportunity to see their own dreams realized, too,” said Thune. “I can’t think of a better place than South Dakota for this pilot program to be implemented and look forward to seeing the positive effect this will have on families living in tribal communities throughout the state. I want to thank Secretary Perdue for seeing the potential in this pilot program and taking quick action to see that it moves forward.” “Strengthening families is a direct investment into strengthening the future, and expanding home ownership opportunities is a key part of that,” said Noem. “I am thankful Secretary Perdue and USDA recognized the potential of South Dakota tribal communities for this pilot program. I am hopeful it will help ease the path to home ownership for tribal families in the years ahead.” “To thrive, rural America needs a creative and forward-thinking partner in USDA,” said Assistant to the USDA Secretary for Rural Development Anne Hazlett. “Under Secretary Perdue’s leadership, USDA is harnessing innovation so we can be a better, more effective partner to Tribal communities in building their futures.” In March 2018, the delegation requested this pilot program, which is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairmen’s Association and the South Dakota Native Homeownership Coalition, be implemented in South Dakota because while the current Section 502 program is highly utilized, only 23 of the 7,187 loans that were issued in fiscal year 2017 went to Native American families on tribal land. Under its current structure, USDA-RD lacks the adequate staff resources that are required to build relationships and deliver loans in tribal communities. Recognizing the lack of Section 502 direct loans in tribal communities, officials from USDA-RD, both in Washington, D.C., and South Dakota, collaborated with two Native American community development financial institutions (CDFIs) in South Dakota to develop this pilot program. Both CDFIs, Mazaska Owecaso Otipi Financial in Pine Ridge and Four Bands Community Fund in Eagle Butte, are institutions in good standing with USDA-RD and, as a result of today’s announcement, are now eligible lenders under Section 502. Each will receive $800,000 in Section 502 direct loan funding from USDA-RD and be responsible for contributing $200,000 in additional funds to the pilot project. These funds would be used to relend to Native American families in tribal communities in South Dakota and North Dakota that meet the program’s requirements. Families that are interested in learning more about this pilot program should contact the eligible CDFIs or one of the congressional delegation’s offices in Washington or South Dakota. ###
05.25.2018	05.25.18 Rounds Statement on Committee Passage of Annual Defense Authorization Bill Includes a Number of Provisions Authored by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) and Chairman of the Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the committee passage of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. It includes a number of Rounds’ provisions. The committee voted 25-2 to send the bill to the full Senate floor for consideration. “The NDAA is one of the most important pieces of legislation we pass each year, as it provides our military personnel with the tools they need to complete their missions and keep us safe,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased that this year’s NDAA includes a number of provisions I offered pertaining to cold spray repair technology, developed in Rapid City, to improve Department of Defense (DoD) repair processes, as well as additional measures to improve officer personnel management, transition of service members to civilian life, training ranges and high level maintenance. Additionally, it includes a provision that will allow the DoD to conduct covert cyber operations necessary to help keep Americans safe. This year’s NDAA was named for the first time in honor of SASC Chairman John McCain, an American hero and statesman who has always put the good of the country first.” The NDAA authorizes $716 billion in defense spending, prohibits a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round and provides a 2.6 percent pay raise to military members. A summary of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act can be found here. ###
05.24.2018	05.24.18 Rounds Supports Legislation to Provide Live Load Haulers with Additional Flexibility on ELD Rules WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today cosponsored legislation to give live load haulers additional flexibility and relief from the Electronic Logging Device (ELD) rules. The Transporting Livestock Across America Safely Act, introduced earlier this week by Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), would exempt live load haulers from federal hours of service requirements until crossing the threshold of 300 air miles away from their point of origin. Haulers would also be able to take a break at any point in their drive without it counting against their trucking time, which would be stretched from 11 to 15-18 hours. “While I continue to work with Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and her staff to address the concerns of live-load haulers, the Transporting Livestock Across America Safely Act would codify into law commonsense provisions to help haulers do their job safely and humanely. Providing live load haulers with additional flexibility regarding the ELD and hours of service rules is good for ranchers, good for haulers and good for the livestock and insects they transport.” Specifically, this legislation: Provides that hours of service and ELD requirements are inapplicable until after a driver travels more than 300-air miles from their source. Drive time for hours of service purposes does not start until after 300-air mile threshold. Exempts loading and unloading times from the hours of service calculation of driving time. Extends the hours of service on-duty time maximum hour requirement from 11 hours to a minimum of 15 hours and a maximum of 18 hours of on-duty time. Grants flexibility for drivers to rest at any point during their trip without counting against hours of service time. Allows drivers to complete their trip – regardless of hours of service requirements – if they come within 150-air miles of their delivery point. After the driver completes his or her delivery and the truck is unloaded, the driver will take a break for a period that is 5 hours less than the maximum on-duty time (10 hours if a 15-hour drive time). ###
05.24.2018	05.24.18 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Protect Tribes from Costly Obamacare Employer Mandate WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined Sens. Steve Daines (R-Mont.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) and James Risch (R-Idaho) to introduce legislation to protect Native American tribes from Obamacare’s employer mandate. “The federal government has a trust obligation to provide health care to Native Americans, yet tribal governments and tribal entities are being wrongfully forced to comply with the Affordable Care Act’s employer health care coverage mandate or risk paying expensive fines to the government for opting-out,” said Rounds. “In South Dakota, the fines issued by the IRS for failing to comply with the mandate could devastate tribal businesses. Our legislation would exempt tribal employers from the employer mandate so they will no longer be penalized for failing to comply with a mandate they never should have been subject to in the first place.” The Tribal Employment and Jobs Protection Act will exempt tribes and tribal employers from Obamacare’s employer mandate. The employer mandate places an undue burden on tribes, leading to lost jobs and increased unemployment. Instead of bolstering tribal economies, it drives out opportunities and wages. Tribal members were already exempt from the individual mandate in the original Obamacare law. This legislation upholds the United States' trust responsibility to Indian tribes while honoring the government-to-government relationship between tribes and the U.S. government. ###
05.22.2018	05.22.18 Rounds: Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief Bill Heads to President’s Desk Includes Seven of Rounds’ Provisions WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the House of Representative’s passage of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act. Rounds, an original sponsor of S. 2155, led seven different provisions included in the final legislation. It now heads to the president’s desk for signature. “Our smaller, local banks and credit unions – who had nothing to do with the financial crisis of 2008 – have been disproportionately affected by Dodd-Frank’s onerous rules and regulations,” said Rounds. “Our legislation begins to undo these unnecessary burdens so that our local banks and credit unions can focus on serving their customers. Making sure families and businesses have access to credit when they need it is critical as we work to grow a healthy American economy. I look forward to the president signing our bill into law as we continue to implement a pro-growth agenda that creates jobs and unleashes our full economic potential.” S. 2155 is supported by the Independent Community Bankers of South Dakota (ICBSD) and the South Dakota Bankers Association (SDBA): “We are very grateful for Senator Rounds as he continually works to champion issues most important to community banks in South Dakota. Regulatory relief is a great step in ensuring independent banks are able to continue do what they do best, support main streets all over America!” – Megan Olson, President and CEO, ICBSD “South Dakota’s bankers applaud the efforts of Chairman Crapo, Senator Rounds and their colleagues on both sides of the aisle for working together to develop and pass sensible legislation that will improve the regulatory framework for main street banks. Bankers strive every day to meet the needs of their customers and grow their local economy. S.2155 will help them do just that.”- Curt Everson, President, SDBA Rounds’ Provisions Included in S. 2155: The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, which provides small banks and credit unions with data reporting relief; Relief from Dodd-Frank capital rules that allows banks to count high-quality municipal bonds toward capital requirements, providing help to both banks and local governments that issue debt; Relief from the enhanced supplemental leverage ratio (eSLR) for custody banks that service organizations like mutual funds and state and local pension plans; Streamlining federal rules to help small, local federal savings associations (FSAs), or thrifts, expand their ability to offer loans to more families and businesses without going through a costly charter conversion process; Provisions in the Community Bank Access to Capital Act that would: Free small banks from having to complete arduous and expensive tests mandated by Dodd-Frank; Make it easier for banks with less than $3 billion in assets to raise capital and grow; The Protecting Veterans Credit Act, which protects the credit of veterans who are awaiting delayed payments from the VA Choice program; and Rural appraisal relief for cases when borrowers apply for a loan less than $400,000 and have trouble finding a qualified appraiser. ###
05.22.2018	05.22.18 Rounds Statement on EPW Committee Passage of Water Infrastructure Bill Comprehensive legislation passes committee unanimously, includes Rounds’ priorities WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds, a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), today issued the following statement after the EPW Committee voted unanimously to pass America’s Water Infrastructure Act. This legislation includes a number of Rounds’ priorities. “The water infrastructure bill we passed today will benefit all South Dakota communities,” said Rounds. “It includes language to update and maintain water infrastructure systems such as dams and levees, upgrade drinking and waste water systems and increase water storage to make certain all citizens have access to safe, clean water. It also gives state and local government leaders a seat at the table to prioritize Army Corps projects in their regions.” “Additionally, America’s Water Infrastructure Act will help grow our economy by cutting red tape and help protect against dangerous floods and droughts. “I’m pleased that this bill prioritizes the implementation of the Upper Missouri River Basin snowpack monitoring program that I’ve been calling for since taking office. This program will help mitigate the possibility of a flood event for those living near the Missouri River.” “We were also able to secure a provision for the Corps to carry out a project for shoreline stabilization on the Lower Brule Reservation. This much-needed project will help fix erosion that is threatening an entire community and the surrounding environment. “Lastly, we were able to secure a verbal commitment from the Chairman to work with us to fix an Obama-era proposal known as the ‘surplus water rule,’ which restricts South Dakotans’ access to water in Corps-controlled land. South Dakotans are legally entitled to use the water, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make certain we can better use our water along the Missouri River system.” “I’m happy we were able to pass this important bipartisan legislation, and I look forward to bringing it to the Senate floor soon.” America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 is: Fiscally Responsible Includes $7 billion in new deauthorizations – saving taxpayers’ dollars. Requires the Corps to responsibly manage non-Federal dollars by either applying excess funds to another project by the same sponsor or refunding the money. Holds the Army Corps financially accountable for any failures to complete studies and reports called for in the legislation in a timely manner. Reauthorizes the Water Infrastructure Flexibility Act (WIFIA) to promote leveraging millions in non-federal funds for water projects. Promotes Federalism Cuts bureaucratic red tape to ensure local communities have more control over which projects receive funding. Empowers states during the permitting process for new water storage projects by allowing states to challenge Corps decisions on the purpose of a project, or permit conditions. Authorizes or reauthorizes important water infrastructure programs and projects that benefit all 50 states. Pushes the Corps to complete feasibility studies for projects in two years. Protects Lives and Property Reduces flooding risks for rural communities. Invests in repairing aging drinking water and wastewater infrastructure. Gives small and rural communities the assistance they need to clean up and prevent pollution in their drinking water and wastewater systems. Assists in creating new standards to make water utilities and water storage more affordable for small and rural communities. Provides technical assistance to states to help complying with expensive and burdensome EPA regulatory standards that states cannot afford. Full text of the bill can be found here. ###
05.22.2018	05.22.18 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Rural Health Care Delivery WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined Sens. Doug Jones (D-Ala.) and Tina Smith (D-Minn.) to introduce the bipartisan Rural Health Liaison Act. This legislation would improve coordination among the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and other health care stakeholders through the creation of a rural health liaison. This legislation is supported by the National Rural Health Association. “Making sure all South Dakotans, including those in rural areas who live far away from a major hospital or clinic, have access to the same quality of care as those living in big cities is a priority of mine,” said Rounds. “Creating a position within USDA that is solely focused on improving health care in rural areas will help us address the unique health challenges facing our small, sparsely-populated communities. It will also help bridge gaps between USDA and other federal agencies like HHS.” “As the rural hospital closure crisis and the opioid epidemic escalate in rural America, we need to seek new ways to help struggling rural economies and increase opportunities for rural patients and providers,” said Alan Morgan, CEO, National Rural Health Association. “USDA has experience with working to keep struggling hospitals from closing and is the home to a number of programs critical in providing telehealth services and other rural health resources. Now more than ever, we need a Rural Health Liaison at the USDA to ensure better coordination and streamlining of rural health programs.” USDA plays a significant role in federal rural development efforts. The agency has the capability to finance the construction of hospitals, to implement telehealth programs, and carry out health education initiatives. The Rural Health Liaison Act would establish a rural health liaison to make sure USDA is fully coordinated and leveraged with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as well as other important stakeholders. Under the Rural Health Liaison Act, the newly established Rural Health Liaison would: Consult with HHS on rural health issues and improve communication with all federal agencies; Provide expertise on rural health care issues; Lead and coordinate strategic planning on rural health activities within the USDA; and, Advocate on behalf of the health care and relevant infrastructure needs in rural areas. ###
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Rounds Statement on Net Neutrality CRA WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on his vote against the Congressional Review Act (CRA) on net neutrality: “Sound, reliable internet service is a vital component of nearly everything we do today, and there is widespread support on both sides of the aisle to protect consumers from blocking, throttling and paid prioritization of internet traffic. However, net neutrality should be regulated through a light-handed approach that protects consumers while still encouraging innovation in the market. The CRA voted on today was a political vote that would resuscitate an Obama regulation to give the FCC total control of net neutrality. It is based on an outdated, 1930s-era approach that, in the two years it has been enacted, led to a fall in broadband internet investment for the first time outside of a recession. “Providing all South Dakota families with access to reliable, adequate internet service is vital as we continue to grow our economy and create jobs in the 21st century. We believe this is best achieved through a bipartisan approach in Congress, which has the tooth of law and can provide long-term certainty for both consumers and broadband innovators.” Background: Net Neutrality is the principle that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) should enable access to all content and applications regardless of the source, without favoring or blocking particular products or websites. When the Obama administration’s Federal Communications Commission (FCC) reclassified ISPs as common carriers under Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, ISPs became subject to a more burdensome regulatory framework. In the two years since the Obama administration's "Open Internet Order" was enacted, broadband investment has fallen for the first time in the internet era, outside of a recession. Last year, FCC Chairman Ajit Pai submitted the Restoring Internet Freedom order, which would nullify the Open Internet Order and restore the FCC’s light-touch approach. The “Restoring Internet Order” is scheduled to take effect on June 11. The FCC believes that by lifting these heavy-handed regulations, investment in rural infrastructure will begin to take off once again. The CRA voted on today would nullify the “Restoring Internet Order.” However, for the CRA to take effect, it will have to pass the House of Representatives and be signed into law by President Trump. ###
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Rounds-Thune-Enzi Bill to Double Size of Black Hills Veterans Cemetery Heads to President Years-Long Project Is One Step Closer to Completion WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.), and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) issued the following statements after the U.S. House of Representatives passed their bill, the Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act (S. 35), legislation that will facilitate a permanent land transfer of approximately 200 acres of Bureau of Land Management land to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery outside of Sturgis, South Dakota. The bill, which the senators reintroduced during the first week of the 115th Congress, passed the Senate by voice vote in December 2017. Their bill now heads to the president for his signature. “It’s important that South Dakota’s veterans know there will be space for them to rest peacefully at the Black Hills National Cemetery,” said Rounds. “I am pleased that our commonsense legislation to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery passed the House today, and will now head to the president’s desk to be signed into law.” “Our veterans deserve a resting place as majestic and solemn as the Black Hills National Cemetery, and I’m glad this important, years-long initiative that will help to continue honoring our heroes – now and for generations to come – is finally nearing the finish line,” said Thune. “It’s a small yet meaningful gesture for the men and women who gave far more than we’ll ever be able to repay.” “Wyoming is one of the few states without a VA National Cemetery, so I am glad that Congress was able to pass this legislation to ensure we are working to provide a resting place for Wyoming’s veterans,” said Enzi. “Veterans and their families deserve to know that there will always be a place where their families can honor their legacy for generations to come. I look forward to President Trump signing this legislation into law soon.” Under current law, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act limits transfers like this one to a lifespan of 20 years. The Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act will make this particular transfer permanent. ###
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Rounds Statement on Meeting with Army Corps WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today issued the following statement after meeting with R.D. James, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, regarding the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ management of the Missouri River. The meeting comes more than two months after Rounds requested an in-person briefing. “I appreciate the opportunity to meet with Assistant Secretary James today to share my concerns about the Army Corps’ management of the Missouri River. We had a good exchange and I found his interest in working with us refreshing. We have agreed to continue work to address our concerns about the high water levels along the river, as well as make certain an appropriate monitoring system is in place. Flood control is priority number one. We also discussed issues in South Dakota regarding access to water in Corps-controlled land, so we can better use our water along the river system. We will continue to keep a close watch on the Corps’ management practices along the river to help avoid another flood and make certain South Dakotans concerns’ are adequately addressed.”
05.10.2018	05.10.18 Rounds, King Introduce Bill to Allow Local Meat and Poultry Products to be Sold Across State Lines Bill would open up new markets for small producers and processers WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Angus King (I-Maine), today introduced the New Markets for State-Inspected Meat and Poultry Act. The bipartisan bill would allow meat and poultry products inspected by state Meat and Poultry Inspection (MPI) programs to be sold across state lines. Currently, there are 27 states with inspection programs, certified by the Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS), which meet or exceed federal inspection standards. However, products processed at these FSIS approved state MPI inspected facilities are not currently allowed to be sold across state lines. “At a time of economic downturn within the ag sector, opening up new markets for South Dakota producers is critically important,” said Rounds. “Currently in South Dakota, cattle, sheep, swine and goat products are limited to markets within the state even though they are required to go through inspection at an FSIS-approved state facility. Because the state inspection programs are required to be ‘at least equal to’ or better than the federal inspection standards, products that pass state inspection should be able to be sold across state lines. Our bipartisan, commonsense bill will create new markets for producers and give consumers more choices at the grocery store, while continuing to maintain the high quality and safety standards necessary to keep consumers healthy.” “Maine farmers and producers who meet or exceed high-quality state inspection standards for their meat and poultry should have the freedom to access new markets in other states,” said King. “It makes no sense that a local farmer should have to jump through extra federal hoops to compete outside of Maine if they have proven the quality of their product at a federally-approved state facility. This common sense legislation gives our state’s agricultural sector more flexibility to expand its customer base and bring Maine-made meat and poultry products to people throughout the country.” “We’d like to thank Senator Rounds for his commitment to the independent cattleman and processor,” said Kenny Graner, President of the United States Cattlemen’s Association. “The New Markets for State-Inspected Meat and Poultry Act of 2018 will strengthen local economies by allowing meat and poultry products inspected under State meat inspection programs to be sold across state lines. This opens access to new markets that were previously unavailable due to outdated federal regulations. Facilities operating under a State meat inspection program have to jump through the same hoops as those regulated under the federal meat inspection program. For South Dakota, this means that the 80 state-inspected establishments will be able to sell South Dakota beef across state lines to nearby Minnesota, Nebraska, Wyoming, and others. The idea that beef from approved South American countries may be sold across state lines in the United States, while state inspected products can’t go from South Dakota to North Dakota illustrates the inequities of our current law.” This legislation is supported by the United States Cattlemen’s Association, the South Dakota Farm Bureau, the Maine Farm Bureau, the South Dakota Pork Producers, the South Dakota Meat Inspection Program Director, South Dakota Governor Dennis Daugaard, the South Dakota Stockgrowers and the South Dakota Cattlemen’s Association. Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) is an original cosponsor of this legislation. Related Files Two-Pager The New Markets for State-Inspected Meat Act (002).pdf
05.07.2018	05.07.18 Sturgis Brown High School Graduate Accepted to U.S. Naval Academy Justice West was nominated to the United States Naval Academy by Senator Mike Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Sturgis Brown High School graduate Justice West has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, which he intends to accept. West, the son of Patrick and Cassandra West of Piedmont, received a nomination to the U.S. Naval Academy from Rounds. He currently attends the U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School in Newport, RI. “I congratulate Justice on his offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy,” said Rounds. “Justice is committed to giving back to his community, and has volunteered his time to work with the elderly, the local police department, the animal shelter and the United Way. He showed leadership skills as one of the varsity football team captains at Sturgis Brown High School and as a founding member of the Spanish Club. Throughout his academic career, Justice has worked hard and we commend him for his desire to serve our country in the Navy.” “I am very excited to begin my education at USNA and I will take full advantage of this amazing opportunity as I continue to pursue my goal of receiving a commission in the naval service,” said West. “I am very thankful to all my friends, family and community for their endless support in my journey thus far.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
05.03.2018	05.03.18 Rounds Honored with U.S. Chamber 'Spirit of Enterprise' Award SIOUX FALLS – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) received the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s ‘Spirit of Enterprise’ Award for his support of pro-growth economic policies in the first session of the 115th Congress. “It’s a good time to be doing business in America, thanks to a slate of legislative accomplishments that laid the groundwork for more economic growth and job creation,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “These efforts to advance commonsense, growth-oriented legislation will help Main Street American businesses thrive. We commend Sen. Rounds for his commitment to promoting and protecting American free enterprise and economic prosperity.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s How They Voted scorecard. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. Rounds scored an 86 percent. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. ###
05.03.2018	05.03.18 Rounds Accepting Fall 2018 Internship Applications **Deadline extended to May 21, 2018** PIERRE– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for fall 2018. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is May 21, 2018. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than May 21, 2018. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Kari Weller at kari_weller@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Kari Weller at (605) 336-0486. ###
05.02.2018	05.02.18 Rounds: Ellsworth to be one of Three Bases to be Considered to Receive the First B-21 Bombers PIERRE – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued the following statement on Ellsworth Air Force Base being named one of three bases evaluated to receive the first B-21 Raider Bombers. “I welcome today’s decision to include Ellsworth Air Force Base as a candidate to be the first base to receive the new B-21 Raider bomber,” said Rounds. “It reaffirms the vital role Ellsworth plays in our national defense. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue working with Secretary Wilson and others to make certain the Air Force fully considers the tremendous value of Ellsworth and the value to our nation of placing the B-21 there as soon as possible.” The announcement is formally expected later today. In addition to Ellsworth, Dyess and Whiteman Air Force Bases will also be evaluated, with a decision expected in 2019. Background on the B-21 Bombers and Ellsworth Connection: The B-21 was named the “Raider” after the heroic Doolittle Raid flown in World War II. This raid was a daring attack on the Japanese mainland that proved to be a pivotal point in the Pacific, and the brave airmen that flew those missions were part of the 34th and 37th Bomb Squadrons at Ellsworth Air Force Base. The men and women of these two combat squadrons continue to make us proud today, flying B-1B combat missions in the Middle East and they recently returned from operations in the Pacific. This decision by the Air Force cements a long and storied legacy of our great airmen and their accomplishments and I look forward to the day when the first B-21 lands at Ellsworth.” ###
05.01.2018	05.01.18 Family-Owned Dairy Queen in Madison Nominated to be Small Business of the Day for National Small Business Week Dairy Queen in Madison is owned by DeLon Mork PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today nominated Dairy Queen of Madison, owned by DeLon Mork, as the Small Business of the Day for National Small Business Week. The restaurant has been in the Mork family since it was purchased by DeLon’s parents in 1964. “I’m happy to nominate DeLon Mork and his small business as South Dakota’s Small Business of the Day during National Small Business Week,” said Rounds. “DeLon and his family are passionate about providing excellent service to their customers and giving back to the community that supports them. Each year, Dairy Queens across the country participate in Miracle Treat Day to raise money for the Children’s Miracle Network. For the past 11 years, DeLon’s Dairy Queen in Madison has sold the most Blizzards of any Dairy Queen in North America on Miracle Treat Day. Small businesses like DeLon’s play an important role in South Dakota’s economy, and with this nomination, we hope to shine a light on his good work.” “I appreciate Sen. Rounds nominating our Dairy Queen for National Small Business Week’s Small Business of the Day,” said Mork. “Being part of a strong community and being able to give back to that community is very rewarding. I thank Sen. Rounds and others who have supported small businesses by working on issues important to business owners across the country. This includes passing tax reform and rolling back unnecessary regulations. These policies will help us grow our small business so we can continue to support South Dakota’s economy and give back to our community.” Each year, the president issues a proclamation announcing National Small Business Week, a time to recognize the important contributions of America’s small business owners. As part of National Small Business Week, the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship highlights the impact of outstanding small business owners from across the U.S. ###
04.30.2018	04.30.18 Rounds, Thune Join Bipartisan Group of Senators in Pushing EPA Administrator Pruitt for Year-Round E15 Waiver WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today joined 16 of their Senate colleagues in writing to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt highlighting the benefits of year-round E15 sales. The letter comes weeks after the president indicated he supported such a waiver. Thune and Rounds want Pruitt to provide an expected timeline for an administrative Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) waiver, and they request that the agency allow for the sale of E15 during the upcoming summer driving season. “First, we ask you to provide an expected timeline of the rulemaking process to clarify how the agency will make this change to allow higher ethanol blends access to the market place,” the senators wrote. “Additionally, we ask that you provide immediate clarity to allow higher ethanol blends to be sold in the interim while the outdated regulation is being changed. Doing this will fulfill the president’s commitment to allow consumer’s access to these fuels year-round, expand consumer choice, and eliminate confusion at the pump.” In addition to Rounds and Thune, the letter was also signed by U.S. Sens. Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.). Full text of the letter is below: April 30, 2018 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We write today regarding President Trump’s recent commitment to allow for 15 percent ethanol blends (E15) to be sold year around. We also seek information and a transparent timeline from you on the regulatory pathway forward to address the Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) issue in the wake of the president’s announcement. Collectively, we are long-time supporters of the effort to address the RVP issue and make E15 available year around across the United States. Allowing an open marketplace with more fuel options for consumers encourages competition and drives down consumer fuel costs. Moreover, E15 lowers evaporative and tailpipe emissions when compared to 10 percent ethanol fuel, improving the environment. Resolving this issue also provides a pathway to increase farm income at a time when producers are struggling with a depressed farm economy, low commodity prices, and tight margins. Congress never intended the RVP waiver to effectively be a market cap on the amount of ethanol blended in gasoline. Rather, this provision was intended to provide a pathway for ethanol to grow and thrive in the fuel marketplace when it was passed in 1990. The current interpretation is outdated and has created an untenable regulatory barrier to E15 as a readily available option for motorists. As the fuel marketplace has changed over the past 28 years since the RVP waiver for 10 percent ethanol blends was first approved, this provision needs to change as well. First, we ask you to provide an expected timeline of the rulemaking process to clarify how the agency will make this change to allow higher ethanol blends access to the market place. Additionally, we ask that you provide immediate clarity to allow higher ethanol blends to be sold in the interim while the outdated regulation is being changed. Doing this will fulfill the president’s commitment to allow consumer’s access to these fuels year-round, expand consumer choice, and eliminate confusion at the pump. Should you require any further information, please let us know. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, ###
04.30.2018	04.30.18 Fort Pierre Student Accepted to U.S. Air Force Academy Ryan Habeck was nominated to the United States Air Force Academy by Senator Mike Rounds PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Stanley County High School student Ryan Habeck has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, which he intends to accept. Habeck, the son of Clint and Melissa Habeck of Fort Pierre, received a nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy from Rounds. “I congratulate Ryan on his offer of appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy,” said Rounds. “As Student Council president, Ryan has shown leadership skills that will serve him well at the Air Force Academy. He has also qualified for Junior Olympics multiple times as a competitive shooter. Ryan has worked hard to get to this point and I wish him all the best.” "Receiving an appointment to the Air Force Academy is the greatest achievement I have ever received,” said Habeck. “The official visit I took in September really opened up my eyes on where I wanted to go. I knew that the Air Force Academy was the place for me. I really want to make a difference and I know this is where I can do that." Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Baltic Student Accepted to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Jayden Pittmann was nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point by Senator Mike Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Jayden Pittmann of Baltic has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which he intends to accept. Jayden is the son of Jason and Kristen Pittmann, and is a senior at Baltic High School. He was nominated to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point by Rounds. “I congratulate Jayden on his offer of appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point,” said Rounds. “Jayden’s strong work ethic, desire to serve his country and leadership skills will help him as he begins this new chapter of life. Our service academies select the country’s top students to join their ranks, and we wish Jayden all the best at West Point.” “I am honored to be accepted into the United States Military Academy at West Point,” said Pittmann. “This would not have been possible without the support of my family, teachers, and friends. I greatly appreciate Senator Rounds’ nomination and look forward to serving my country.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
04.25.2018	04.25.18 Rounds Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Help Veterans Secure Good-Paying Jobs Legislation Would Improve the Process for Connecting Servicemembers with Education, Training and Job Opportunities when they Leave the Service WASHINGTON–U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, along with Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), today introduced the Better Access to Technical Training, Learning, and Entrepreneurship for Servicemembers Act (BATTLE for Servicemembers Act), to better connect servicemembers with resources to secure quality education and good-paying jobs as they transition from military service to civilian life. “The men and women who serve in the U.S. military are some of the smartest, brightest and best-trained individuals our country has to offer,” said Rounds. “Giving them the tools they need to utilize their talents as they transition into civilian life is but one way we can show our gratitude for their service.” The bill would increase participation in programs that help servicemembers transition to civilian life. Specifically, the service members would choose a two day training session on either higher education, technical training, or entrepreneurship. Instead of continuing with an opt-in option, the bill would make the training opt-out to encourage greater participation by servicemembers. According to a 2017 GAO report, only 14 percent of servicemembers completed at least one additional two-day training program after completing the three day required portion of the Transition Assistance Program (TAP). Currently, TAP training covers a curriculum that includes sessions on veterans’ benefits, financial planning, and post-service employment. The BATTLE for Servicemembers Act would supplement the current training and better tailor the sessions to fit the needs of servicemembers. The legislation is supported by Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Student Veterans of America (SVA), Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), the Millennial Action Project and the Bipartisan Center Action. ###
04.24.2018	04.24.18 Rounds Statement on EPA Rule to Increase Science Transparency Proposed rule would implement Rounds’ HONEST Act, which he introduced in the Senate earlier this year WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on steps that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is taking to increase transparency at the agency. Today, Rounds and House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith joined EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt as he signed a proposed rule that would make certain the regulatory science underlying EPA actions is fully transparent, and that the scientific information is publicly available in a manner sufficient for independent validation. It is similar to the HONEST Act, which Rounds and Smith introduced in their respective chambers earlier this year. “Sound, reliable science is vital to helping us make important policy decisions that impact the health of American families and their livelihoods. Inserting new levels of transparency in the EPA rulemaking process will help make the agency more accountable to the American people and help everyone understand the impact of EPA’s decisions. Today’s directive is a significant step toward making sure these decisions are not made behind closed doors with information accessible only to those writing the regulations, but rather in the full view of those who will be affected.” “The era of secret science at EPA is coming to an end,” said Pruitt. “The ability to test, authenticate, and reproduce scientific findings is vital for the integrity of rulemaking process. Americans deserve to assess the legitimacy of the science underpinning EPA decisions that may impact their lives.” “Administrator Pruitt’s announcement ensures that data will be secret no more,” said Smith. “For too long, the EPA has issued rules and regulations based on data that has been withheld from the American people. It’s likely that in the past, the data did not justify all regulations. Today, Administrator Pruitt rightfully is changing business as usual and putting a stop to hidden agendas.” The HONEST Act would preserve the integrity of the scientific review process by prohibiting the agency from proposing, finalizing or disseminating regulations or assessments based upon science that is not transparent or not reproducible. ###
04.24.2018	
04.11.2018	04.11.18 Rounds Receives “Award for Conservative Achievement” from American Conservative Union WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) this week received an “Award for Conservative Achievement” from the American Conservative Union (ACU) for consistently voting to uphold conservative principles. “We commend Senator Rounds for his support of conservative values, and applaud his votes to confirm conservatives such as Mick Mulvaney, Besty DeVos and Ajit Pai,” said Matt Schlapp, Chairman of the ACU. “His votes to pass comprehensive tax reform, repeal Obamacare, and confirm true conservatives are key examples of his leadership.” “Over the past 15 months, we’ve made significant progress enacting conservative principles that invite freedom and individual liberty,” said Rounds. “We’ve passed historic tax cuts, rolled back overreaching regulations and we’ve put conservative, fair-minded judges on the bench. I’m pleased to join my colleagues in achieving these successes and look forward to continuing to advance conservative principles for the American people.” ###
04.05.2018	04.05.18 Rounds Statement on China Tariff Proposal PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on China’s proposed tariffs on U.S. products, including corn, soybeans and beef products: “While I support the administration’s desire to negotiate better trade deals, I’ve continuously expressed my concern about retaliation from other countries. The new tariffs China is proposing on soybeans and other U.S. goods is a prime example. With planting season about to start and the farm economy still lagging, South Dakota farmers are rightly concerned about this announcement. As trade negotiations continue between the U.S. and China, I will continue to look at all avenues to prevent these proposed tariffs from becoming a reality. “I understand there is some time before these tariffs are imposed to allow for negotiations; however China’s tariff proposal is already having a real market effect. As the administration continues to negotiate trade, I encourage them to take both short and long-term implications into consideration. The best way to strengthen our negotiating position with China is to re-engage with trading partners in that region, specifically those in the TPP. This will give us a tremendous advantage as we seek the best deal for South Dakota producers. “Free and fair trade drives down prices for American consumers and creates jobs here at home. We need more trade deals with our allies to both expand our opportunities and lessen our dependence on China for trade. Over the past year, we’ve been able to substantially grow our economy through tax relief and reg reduction. As we continue to build on that success, we must open up new markets to U.S. products without hurting existing trade partnerships. Actions impacting our existing trade partnerships will negatively impact our economic growth.” Yesterday, China introduced a proposal to impose an additional 25 percent tariff on more than 100 U.S. goods, including soybeans, wheat, corn, beef and automobiles. China is currently the world’s largest importer of soybeans, with roughly one-third of their soybean imports coming from U.S. farmers. China accounts for 25 percent of all U.S. soybean sales and 60 percent of all soybean exports. In February, Rounds joined 25 of his colleagues in a letter to President Trump urging him to re-engage in Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. In a recent weekly column, Rounds wrote: “Increased economic engagement with the eleven countries currently in the TPP has the potential to substantially improve the competitiveness of U.S. businesses, including farms and ranches. It would also support millions of U.S. jobs, boost U.S. exports, increase wages and benefit consumers. Increasing access to a region and market that has a population of nearly 500 million—and is continuing to grow—is a smart move for our country. Additionally, U.S. participation in TPP could counter the influence of China in the Pacific Rim region.” ###
04.04.2018	04.04.18 Rounds Urges VA to Make Timely Payments to Community Providers PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today sent a letter to Acting Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Robert Wilkie to request the VA address its reimbursement process for community providers, and to reimburse old claims dating back to September 30, 2016, and older that the VA has rejected as ineligible. “According to the VA’s policy, claims from September 30, 2016, and older are no longer eligible for reimbursement,” wrote Rounds in his letter. “This is disappointing and unacceptable. Community providers deserve to be reimbursed for services provided at the VA’s direction, and TPAs [Third Party Administrators] must have clear and simple processes for community providers to follow for prompt payment.” “Despite a strong, patriotic desire to serve veterans, I am concerned that community providers may be reluctant to participate in the next VA community provider network due to their negative past experiences with the Veterans Choice Program. This may, in turn, impact our nation’s veterans’ ability to access health care, especially rural veterans.” Full text of the letter: April 4, 2018 The Honorable Robert L. Wilkie Jr. Acting Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Acting Secretary Wilkie: I write to you today with great concern over the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) efforts to improve timely payments to community providers. On January 3, 2018, the VA announced a series of immediate actions to improve the timeliness of payments to community providers. I welcomed this announcement as several South Dakota-based community providers have continuously struggled with receiving prompt reimbursements from the VA’s contracted Third Party Administrator (TPA) for services provided at the VA’s direction. However, I learned that a part of this VA effort included setting deadlines for Veterans Choice Program and Patient-Centered Community Care (VCP/PC3) claims from years past. I understand those deadlines were November 13, 2017, and October 2, 2017, for VCP/PC3 claims from January 1, 2016 - September 30, 2016, and VCP/PC3 claims with dates of service prior to January 1, 2016, respectively. In response, several constituent providers made efforts to resubmit old claims prior to the deadline. However, some providers had claims rejected again or did not receive feedback following a submission. During my exchange with then-Secretary Shulkin at the March 21, 2018, Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing, he stated that as a part of VA’s January 3, 2018, announcement, VA deployed “Rapid Response Teams” to assist community providers with outstanding claims. To date, I have not heard from a constituent community provider that has had contact with a VA Rapid Response Team to troubleshoot outstanding claims. Prior to this deadline, constituent community providers have anecdotally shared with me and my staff their countless efforts to troubleshoot and fix these older claims with their TPA contact, but without success. To compound this struggle, providers have been limited to troubleshooting only three claims at a time with a TPA representative, struggled with long wait times to reach a TPA representative and received deposits for services they did not provide. These issues must be remedied. According to the VA’s policy, claims from September 30, 2016, and older are no longer eligible for reimbursement. This is disappointing and unacceptable. Community providers deserve to be reimbursed for services provided at the VA’s direction, and TPAs must have clear and simple processes for community providers to follow for prompt payment. Due to the aforementioned issues experienced by community providers, I ask that the VA proactively reach out to community providers and provide an opportunity for them to be reimbursed for claims from September 30, 2016, and older. Further, I request that the VA provide clear feedback as to why a claim is not eligible for reimbursement and, if applicable, convey what needs to be corrected for reimbursement. Also, the TPA processes remain unclear, slow, bureaucratic and broken (e.g. deposits to providers for services they did not provide). These processes also need to be reviewed and improved. I understand the VA is looking forward to the next version of community care, but I insist that the current community care program is still in need of considerable attention. Despite a strong, patriotic desire to serve veterans, I am concerned that community providers may be reluctant to participate in the next VA community provider network due to their negative past experiences with the Veterans Choice Program. This may, in turn, impact our nation’s veterans’ ability to access health care, especially rural veterans. Thank you in advance for your prompt consideration to this request. Sincerely, M. Michael Rounds United States Senator CC Thomas G. Bowman, Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs ###
03.30.2018	03.30.18 Rapid City Resident Accepted to U.S. Military Academy at West Point PIERRE —U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Coby Mack of Rapid City has received a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which he intends to accept. Coby is the son of Heidi Bestgen and Troy Mack, the stepson of Branden Bestgen, and is a graduate of Andover High School in Andover, Mass. He was nominated to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point by Rounds. “I congratulate Coby on his offer of appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point,” said Rounds. “Coby has worked hard to achieve his dream of playing Division 1 hockey, and was recruited by the U.S. Military Academy to play on their hockey team. I wish him all the best as he takes on this challenge and commend him for his desire to serve our country.” "This entire process has truly been humbling. I would like to thank Senator Rounds for his kind words, and to his staff for helping me along with the process. I would without a doubt, not be where I am today without the unconditional and loving support from family and friends. I am incredibly honored to represent the state of South Dakota." Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here.
03.23.2018	03.23.18 Rounds: Omnibus Bill Includes Important South Dakota Priorities, Adequately Funds Armed Forces WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Senate passage of the omnibus appropriations bill to fund the government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018, which he supported: “While I continue to be frustrated with Washington’s broken budget process, I voted to support the omnibus because it includes a significant increase in military spending – the biggest increase since the War on Terror began. This increased funding will allow our armed forces to strengthen missile defense, fund new weapons systems and invest in measures to counter enemies such as ISIS and North Korea. It also includes a 2.4 percent pay raise for our troops – the largest single-year increase in nearly a decade. Adequate funding of our military has been a top priority of mine since coming to the Senate, and I’m pleased this omnibus finally includes the necessary funding to begin to restore the damage that arbitrary budget caps and the threat of sequestration have done to our readiness capabilities.” “In addition, this legislation includes a number of provisions that will benefit South Dakota families and the American people. South Dakotans will benefit from the bill’s measures that make new investments in our infrastructure, our border security, school safety and veterans’ care. It helps farmers by including a fix to Section 199A of the tax code to make certain co-ops and independent grain operators are on a level playing field. It also exempts livestock producers from onerous reporting requirements on livestock waste emissions, among other things. I’m pleased we were able to pass this legislation and avoid another short-term spending measure that essentially rubber stamps previous spending levels and destabilizes government programs, including our military.” Highlights of the Legislation: $61 billion increase in defense spending, the largest single-year increase in 15 years. 2.4 percent pay increase for our troops. $1.6 billion in funding for construction of a border wall system, which is the amount requested by President Trump. $95 million in funding for LBNF and Dune, so the scientists at the Sanford Underground Research Lab in Lead can continue their important research on neutrinos and dark matter. $12 million for the Air National Guard facilities at Joe Foss Field to help them replace aging structures and construct a new aircraft maintenance facility. Delays the Electronic Logging Device (ELD) rules for live-load truckers for the remainder of FY 2018. Provides a fix to section 199A of the tax code to protect producers and grain operators from unintended consequences of the recently-enacted tax reform law. Includes the FARM Act, which is legislation Rounds cosponsored earlier this year to exempt hundreds of thousands of farmers and ranchers and livestock markets from burdensome EPA reporting requirements on animal waste emissions. $81.5 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including an additional $2 billion for infrastructure programs to repair and enhance VA medical facilities and State Veterans Homes. Strengthens the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) to make certain federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report required criminal history records to NICS. Funds school security improvements and invests in early intervention and prevention programs to stop school violence before it happens. Provides nearly $4 billion to combat the opioid epidemic harming families in South Dakota and across America. # # #
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Rounds Pushes Senate to Include Health Care Market Stabilization Legislation in Omnibus WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor to urge his colleagues to support an amendment to the pending omnibus bill that would stabilize the health insurance market and lower premiums for South Dakota families. The amendment, which is being offered by Sen. Susan Collins and cosponsored by Rounds, was filed earlier today. If enacted, it will decrease premiums for those enrolled in Obamacare’s individual market by 20-40 percent. Additionally, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates it will lead to an additional 3.2 million Americans obtaining health insurance. “The American people did not ask for Obamacare, but they're the ones that are suffering because of the premium increases caused by this law in the first place,” said Rounds on the Senate floor. “What we're trying to do and what is hopefully an acceptable fashion, is find colleagues on the other side of the aisle who will once again join us in [supporting] this legislation, which they had previously supported, to find a way to step forward and to actually help fix a problem for real Americans.” The amendment includes the provisions of Alexander/Murray, which Rounds previously cosponsored, and a reinsurance program authored by Sens. Susan Collins and Bill Nelson. It has the support of President Trump, House Republicans and Senate Republicans, but Democrats in Congress have been opposed to because it includes protections under the Hyde Amendment. The Hyde Amendment is language that has been included in every appropriations bill since 1976 that prevents taxpayer dollars from funding abortions. From 1976 to today, including in the current omnibus bill, the Hyde Amendment has applied to Medicaid, Medicare, Children’s Health Insurance Program, TRICARE, Indian Health Service, Federal Employees Health Benefits Program and Veterans Affairs. “I'm a pro-life Republican, and by allowing the Hyde Amendment to prevail in this particular case, like it does with all of the other funding that we send back to the states, it cannot be used to fund abortions,” Rounds continued in his speech. “Then it allows us to still continue on to provide with a clear conscience the dollars necessary to provide health care for individuals that otherwise may not get it. What this particular proposal allows is for states to once again take charge of part of the health care that we want to see delivered at the local level.”
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Rounds Statement on 199A Fix in Omnibus Legislation Provision will “prevent our producers and grain operators from unintended consequences and help our ag economy flourish and grow.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the inclusion of a legislative fix to section 199A of the tax code in the omnibus: “Cooperatives and grain operators alike provide a vital service to our farming community and contribute significantly to South Dakota’s economy,” said Rounds. “The inclusion of Section 199A in the tax law was always to maintain the status quo for the agricultural sector, not to give an unfair advantage to cooperatives over independent grain operators. I thank Senators Hoeven, Thune and others for their leadership on this issue, as we have been working with our colleagues in Congress, co-ops, independent operators and producers on a legislative fix for some time. I am pleased it was included in the omnibus package. This fix will protect our producers and grain operators from unintended consequences and help our ag economy flourish and grow.” Text of the omnibus appropriations bill for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 was released last night. While Rounds and his staff continue to read and analyze the entire package, the inclusion of a fix to 199A is one of several encouraging provisions. The omnibus passed the House of Representatives earlier today, and a vote is expected in the Senate by the end of the week. ###
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Rounds Statement on H-2B Provisions in Omnibus WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the inclusion of language in the omnibus that provides a path for the administration to increase the number of H-2B visas by 69,000 for Fiscal Year 2018: “With one of the lowest unemployment rates in the nation, South Dakota’s workforce depends on temporary, H-2B visa workers to fill important short-term, seasonal jobs each year when employers are unable to find American workers to fill them. While the omnibus fix is not a guaranteed solution, it does provide a path for South Dakota employers to be able to fill jobs during the busy construction and tourist seasons. We will be working closely with the administration to urge them to lift the cap of H-2B visas – and quickly – so South Dakota employers can fill these important jobs as soon as possible.” The statutory cap on H-2B visas for Fiscal Year 2018 was filled January 1, 2018, leaving many South Dakota employers who rely on H-2B visas with no one to fill necessary, temporary jobs. Last week, Rounds joined a number of his colleagues in a letter urging the Senate to include language in the upcoming appropriations bill to reauthorize the returning worker exemption for the H-2B seasonal worker visa program. The returning worker program exemption essentially increases the H-2B cap by exempting those who came to the U.S. the previous year from the current year’s numbers. Additionally, Rounds wrote a letter last December requesting expanded access to H-2B visas for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 and beyond. Text of the omnibus appropriations bill for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 was released last night. Rounds and his staff continue to read and analyze the entire package, which passed the House of Representatives earlier today. A vote is expected in the Senate by the end of the week.
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Rounds Statement on Welcome Delay of ELD Rule for Live-Load Truckers in Omnibus WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the inclusion of language to exempt live-load truckers from ELD rules for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 in the omnibus: “I’m pleased that a delay to the ELD rule for live-load truckers was included in the omnibus spending bill currently being considered by the Senate,” said Rounds. “The ELD rule could have a significant impact on not only live-load truckers but the ag economy as a whole. I’ve been in contact with Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Ray Martinez to discuss the concerns of live-load truckers. This will give us time to work with the industry and the administration to find an appropriate long-term solution to this issue.” Text of the omnibus appropriations bill for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 was released last night. While Rounds and his staff continue to read and analyze the entire package, the inclusion of an additional delay of the ELD rule for live-load truckers is one of several encouraging provisions. The omnibus passed the House of Representatives earlier today, and a vote is expected in the Senate by the end of the week. ###
03.21.2018	03.21.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Bill to Provide Justice to Victims of Sex Trafficking WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement after the Senate voted to pass the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, legislation that would allow victims of sex trafficking to seek justice against websites such as Backpage.com that knowingly facilitate the crimes against them. Rounds is a cosponsor of this legislation. “Websites that make a profit by providing a platform for sex traffickers must be held liable,” said Rounds. “The legislation we passed today was narrowly crafted to prevent websites from evading legal repercussions for their criminal actions while at the same time allowing the internet to remain free and open. It also includes provisions to allow victims of sex trafficking to seek the justice they deserve.” This bill is the result of a two-year Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) inquiry which culminated in a report entitled “Backpage.com’s Knowing Facilitation of Online Sex Trafficking,” which found that Backpage.com knowingly facilitated criminal sex trafficking of vulnerable women and young girls and then covered up evidence of these crimes in order to increase its own profits. This narrowly crafted bill offers three reforms to the Communications Decency Act to help victims of sex trafficking. It would: Allow victims of sex trafficking to seek justice against websites that knowingly or with reckless disregard facilitated the crimes against them; Eliminate federal liability protections for websites that assist, support or facilitate a violation of federal sex trafficking laws; and Enable state law enforcement officials, not just the federal Department of Justice, to take action against individuals or businesses that violate federal sex trafficking laws. ###
03.21.2018	03.21.18 Ellsworth Air Force Base Leaders Provide Update to Delegation WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today received an update from Colonel John Edwards and Chief Master Sergeant Adam Vizi of the 28th Bomb Wing at Ellsworth Air Force Base. “Ellsworth Air Force Base plays a critical role in our national defense,” said Rounds. “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I continue to seek policies that protect Ellsworth and the men and women who are stationed there. I thank Colonel Edwards and Chief Master Sergeant Vizi for giving us an update on the good work they are doing to advance Ellsworth’s vital mission to our military capabilities.” “I want to thank Colonel Edwards and Chief Master Sergeant Vizi for taking the time to update us on what they’re working on at Ellsworth Air Force Base,” said Thune. “I’m grateful for their leadership, and I’m continually humbled by the men and women who serve there and the important work they do to keep South Dakota and our nation safe. I remain committed to working with the base and its leaders to ensure South Dakota maintains its strategic advantage in supporting our national defense today and into the future.” “Mission after mission, whether we need to respond to terrorists in the Middle East or deter a tyrannical North Korean dictator, America turns to the brave men and women at Ellsworth Air Force Base,” said Noem. “Ellsworth has a big role to play in the future as well. I want to thank Colonel Edwards for his leadership and for taking the time to brief us today. I’m optimistic about where we’re going and hopeful Ellsworth will continue to serve a mission-critical role in ensuring America’s national security.” ###
03.15.2018	03.15.18 Delegation Presses Veterans Affairs Secretary on Future of Hot Springs Facility WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin expressing continued concern with the VA’s misguided intention to realign services within the VA Black Hills Health Care System and halt any associated reduction in services at the Hot Springs facility until a national review of the VA’s footprint and delivery of care is completed. The delegation also requested that the secretary consider designating Hot Springs as a post-traumatic stress disorder Center of Excellence and encouraged him to visit the facility. “In order to restore confidence within the veteran community and uphold our solemn commitment to their care, we ask that you support steps to remediate the decline in quality factors at the Hot Springs VA, as well as consider its designation as a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Center of Excellence,” the delegation wrote. “The success stories of the Hot Springs domiciliary program speak for themselves, and we ask that you visit the campus to see first-hand the environment of healing fostered in Hot Springs. We believe a visit to Hot Springs would also prove informative as you contemplate the broader question of realignment, and we would be happy to help facilitate a meeting with local stakeholders.” In May 2017, the delegation met with Secretary Shulkin in Washington, D.C., and encouraged him to reverse former VA Secretary Robert McDonald’s decision to realign services within the Black Hills. Full text of the letter can be found below. Dear Secretary Shulkin, We write to request an update of your review of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) footprint and transition to a quality and outcome-based system. When you met with the South Dakota Congressional delegation last May, you discussed shifting to a quality-based system that would maintain services at facilities with top patient outcomes, while relying on community care in instances where the VA is not adequately meeting veteran needs. Accordingly, you said you would review the previous administration’s Record of Decision concerning the realignment of services within the VA Black Hills Health Care System and halt any associated reduction in services at the Hot Springs VA until you completed a national review of the VA’s footprint and delivery of care. We would like to reiterate our support for the tremendous care provided by the Hot Springs VA and again express our concern that the VA’s misguided intention to realign services will deny veterans the care they have selflessly earned, especially those in inpatient post-traumatic stress and addictive disorders services. As we discussed, the VA Strategic Analytics for Improvement and Learning Value Model (SAIL) data first released by USA Today on December 7, 2016, indicated the Hot Springs and Fort Meade VAs were two of only 16 five-star facilities in the third quarter of 2016.[1] The Hot Springs VA was also one of 14 that was also rated a five-star facility in the fourth quarter of 2015. We believe that this stellar performance should have given the VA pause before signing the Record of Decision to significantly reduce the services there. Unfortunately, subsequent quality of care ratings downgraded the Hot Springs VA to a four-star facility on September 30, 2016, and to a two-star facility on September 30, 2017.[2] We are concerned that this precipitous drop was a direct result of the continued uncertainty surrounding the facility’s future and subsequent hiring challenges, which have persisted at the hand of the VA. In order to restore confidence within the veteran community and uphold our solemn commitment to their care, we ask that you support steps to remediate the decline in quality factors at the Hot Springs VA, as well as consider its designation as a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Center of Excellence. The success stories of the Hot Springs domiciliary program speak for themselves, and we ask that you consider visiting the campus to see first-hand the environment of healing fostered in Hot Springs. We believe a visit to Hot Springs would also prove informative as you contemplate the broader question of realignment. We appreciate your continued engagement on this matter and look forward to continuing the discussion on how we can best provide for our veterans. Sincerely, ###
03.14.2018	03.14.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Bill to Provide Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Final Package Includes Seven of Rounds’ Provisions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate passage of S. 2155, The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act. Rounds, an original sponsor of S. 2155, led seven different provisions included in the final legislation. “The first major overhaul of our financial system since Dodd-Frank, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act begins to undo unnecessary regulatory burdens placed on our banks and credit unions,” said Rounds. “It will strengthen our financial system and allow smaller and midsized banks to focus on serving their communities, not complying with layers of bureaucratic demands. Making sure families and businesses have access to credit when they need it is critical as we work to grow a healthy American economy. Every step we can take to provide relief to our lenders is a win for families and businesses who rely on them to finance their businesses, buy a home or save for college.” S. 2155 is supported by the Independent Community Bankers of South Dakota (ICBSD) and the South Dakota Bankers Association (SDBA): “We are very grateful for Senator Rounds as he continually works to champion issues most important to community banks in South Dakota. Regulatory relief is a great step in ensuring independent banks are able to continue do what they do best, support main streets all over America!” – Megan Olson, President and CEO, ICBSD “South Dakota’s bankers applaud the efforts of Chairman Crapo, Senator Rounds and their colleagues on both sides of the aisle for working together to develop and pass sensible legislation that will improve the regulatory framework for main street banks. Bankers strive every day to meet the needs of their customers and grow their local economy. S.2155 will help them do just that.”- Curt Everson, President, SDBA Rounds’ Provisions Included in S. 2155: The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, which provides small banks and credit unions with data reporting relief; Relief from Dodd-Frank capital rules that allows banks to count high-quality municipal bonds toward capital requirements, providing help to both banks and local governments that issue debt; Relief from the enhanced supplemental leverage ratio (eSLR) for custody banks that service organizations like mutual funds and state and local pension plans; Streamlining federal rules to help small, local federal savings associations (FSAs), or thrifts, expand their ability to offer loans to more families and businesses without going through a costly charter conversion process; Provisions in the Community Bank Access to Capital Act that would: Free small banks from having to complete arduous and expensive tests mandated by Dodd-Frank; Make it easier for banks with less than $3 billion in assets to raise capital and grow; The Protecting Veterans Credit Act, which protects the credit of veterans who are awaiting delayed payments from the VA Choice program; and Rural appraisal relief for cases when borrowers apply for a loan less than $400,000 and have trouble finding a qualified appraiser. ###
03.13.2018	03.13.18 Rounds Statement on Additional Delay of ELD Rules for Agriculture Commodities Department of Transportation today announced additional 90-day delay WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DoT) decision to issue an additional 90-day delay of the Electronic Logging Device (ELD) rules for live-load truckers. Originally scheduled to take effect in December 2017, today’s announcement delays implementation until June 17, 2018. “I thank Secretary Chao and other DoT officials for recognizing the need for additional time to continue to seek stakeholder input regarding the ELD rules for live-load truckers. These new rules could have a significant impact on not only live-load truckers but the ag economy as a whole. I will continue to keep a close watch on the issue.” Last fall, Rounds joined a number of South Dakota truckers in Washington, D.C., to discuss these concerns with DoT officials. Since then, he has participated in multiple conversations with Secretary Chao, as well as Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Ray Martinez, regarding the concerns of live-load truckers. The ‘grace period’ for non-ag carriers, in which citations for failing to be ELD-compliant will not count against carriers’ Safety Measurement System scores, will expire as planned on April 1, 2018. Additionally, non-ELD compliant vehicles will not be able to remain in service at that time. # # #
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at Cybersecurity Subcommittee Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, today delivered his opening statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on the Department of Defense’s role in protecting democratic elections. “There is no dispute about what Russia did during the 2016 election cycle,” said Rounds in his opening statement. “There is clear evidence that Russia attempted to undermine our democratic process through the these issues with a hacking of independent political entities, manipulation of social media and use of propaganda venues such as Russia Today…The Department of Defense has a critical role to play in challenging and influencing the mindset of our cyber adversaries and defending the homeland from attacks—attacks that could include cyber-attacks by other nations against our election infrastructure. We look forward to the department approaching heightened sense of urgency.” Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: The Cybersecurity Subcommittee meets this afternoon to receive testimony on the Department of Defense’s role in protecting the U.S. election process. The witnesses are: Mr. Bob Butler, Co-Founder and Managing Director of Cyber Strategies LLC; Ms. Heather Conley, the Senior Vice President for Europe, Eurasia and the Arctic, and Director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; Dr. Richard Harknett, the Head of Political Science at the University of Cincinnati and a former Scholar-in-Residence at U.S. Cyber Command and the National Security Agency; and Dr. Michael Sulmeyer, the Director of the Cyber Security Project at the Harvard Kennedy School. At the conclusion of Ranking Member Nelson’s comments, we will ask our witnesses to make their opening remarks. After that, we will have a round of questions and answers. There is no dispute about what Russia did during the 2016 election cycle. There is clear evidence that Russia attempted to undermine our democratic process through the hacking of independent political entities, manipulation of social media and use of propaganda venues such as Russia Today. Evidence to date indicates that no polls or state election systems were manipulated to change the outcome of the vote. However, there was evidence of Russian probing of certain election systems in 21 states. The Department of Defense has a critical role to play in challenging and influencing the mindset of our cyber adversaries and defending the homeland from attacks—attacks that could include cyber-attacks by other nations against our election infrastructure. We look forward to the department approaching these issues with a heightened sense of urgency. The threat is not going away. Just a couple of weeks ago, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency warned that Russia will seek to influence the upcoming mid-term elections. The White House National Security Advisor stated in December that we have seen initial signs of Russian meddling in the 2018 Mexican presidential campaign. This is all in addition to Russian attempts to influence the elections in France and Germany last year. Each of us on this panel has been quite vocal about the need for a strategy that seizes the strategic high ground in cyberspace. Whether you call it deterrence or something else, we need a strategy that moves out of the trenches and imposes costs on our adversaries. The lack of consequences for the countless attacks over the past decade has emboldened our adversaries and left us vulnerable to emboldened behavior. The attacks we experienced during the 2016 election are just the latest rung on that escalation ladder. As long as our adversaries feel that they can act with impunity, they will press further. Our witnesses offer unique perspectives on the challenges we face. We look to them to help us understand why our posture of restraint has not worked, if we can reverse the damage already done and what it will take to develop and implement a strategy that limits our exposure and imposes costs on malicious behavior. We invited Dr. Richard Harknett to explain his theory of cyber persistence: specifically on how our failure to tailor our strategies to the uniqueness of the cyber domain limits our ability to confront the challenges we face. Our adversaries actively exploit us because they see great benefit and little consequence in doing so. I agree with Dr. Harknett that Cold War models of deterrence won’t work and look forward to hearing what he believes it will take to influence the mindset of our adversaries. In addition to his writings on cyber deterrence and election attacks, Dr. Michael Sulmeyer has focused a great deal of his research on the organizational challenges we face as a government. We understand that Dr. Sulmeyer is working on a paper addressing some of the challenges we examined during our full committee hearing in October on the whole-of-government approach to cybersecurity. We look forward to hearing more from Dr. Sulmeyer on the gaps and seams he sees in our organizational model and what lessons we can learn from allies like the British. Ms. Heather Conley provides an expertise in Russian politics and foreign policy. Russia has yet to face serious consequences, in the cyber or other domains, for its 2016 elections interference; we look forward to Ms. Conley’s testimony on how the United States can tailor and implement these penalties and how the department can best deter or dissuade further Russian elections meddling. We also look forward to the testimony of Mr. Bob Butler, who brings extensive cyber experience in both the Department of Defense and the private sector. Mr. Butler has been involved in numerous studies on cyber deterrence, including the recent Defense Science Board task force on cyber deterrence. Let me close by thanking our witnesses for their willingness to appear today before our subcommittee. ###
03.13.2018	03.13.18 Dakota Dunes Student Offered Appointment to U.S. Naval Academy Meredith Lammers was nominated to the United States Naval Academy by Senator Mike Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Dakota Valley High School student Meredith Lammers has been offered a fully qualified offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy, which she intends to accept. Lammers, the daughter of Gary and Lori Lammers of Dakota Dunes, received a nomination to the U.S. Naval Academy from Rounds. “I congratulate Meredith on her offer of appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy,” said Rounds. “Her desire to serve her country is admirable, and she has worked hard to gain admission to the Naval Academy. After attending the 2017 Naval Academy Summer Seminar, she knew that it would be a perfect fit. We wish her all the best as she takes on this opportunity.” “I am very appreciative to have received an offer of appointment to the United States Naval Academy,” said Lammers. “I am humbled to be accepted into such a prestigious institution. I look forward to serving my country with pride and dedication.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
03.09.2018	03.09.18 Bipartisan Senators: Our Country Needs a Cyber Deterrence Strategy Rounds, colleagues send letter to President Trump urging completion of cyber deterrence doctrine WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Cybersecurity Subcommittee, joined a group of bipartisan senators on the Senate Armed Services Committee in a letter to President Trump urging the completion and announcement of our nation’s cyber deterrence strategy. In the letter, the senators emphasized the urgent need for a cyber deterrence strategy, stating, “The lack of decisive and clearly articulated consequences to cyber-attacks against our country has served as an open invitation to foreign adversaries and malicious cyber actors to continue attacking the United States.” “Much like our nuclear deterrent, a strong cyber doctrine by the United States government would serve as a deterrent, which is not only necessary, but critical to our nation’s survival in the digital age,” the senators continued. “Our adversaries need to understand the boundaries of what is acceptable in the cyber domain, as well as the circumstances under which we would utilize offensive capabilities to retaliate against cyber-attacks.” “Our increased reliance on the internet has created new threats and vulnerabilities to our nation's infrastructure and our way of life. Critical infrastructure such as the electric grid, oil pipelines, air traffic control, and financial institutions all use the internet and can be manipulated, disrupted, and in some cases even destroyed. Beyond physical damage, state sponsored disinformation and data manipulation campaigns have sowed lines of division and discord within our country and have targeted the very foundation of our democracy – the electoral process.” The letter was signed by U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Angus King (I-Maine), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii). Full text of the letter: President Donald Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: We write to urge you to prioritize completion and announcement of our nation’s cyber deterrence strategy as soon as possible. The lack of decisive and clearly articulated consequences to cyber-attacks against our country has served as an open invitation to foreign adversaries and malicious cyber actors to continue attacking the United States. Section 1633 of the fiscal year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (Public Law 115-91), as well as the National Defense Authorization Acts for Fiscal Years 2014, 2016, and 2017 (Public Laws 113–66, 114–92, and 114–328) all require the executive branch to develop a national policy and strategy for deterring our adversaries in cyberspace. In congressional hearings over the course of several years, we have heard numerous government officials across party lines from the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, the State Department, and the National Security Agency each point to the White House when answering which government entity is in charge of formulating our nation’s cyber doctrine. To date, despite a rapid increase in cyber activity by both nation-states and non-state actors, no cyber deterrence strategy has been announced. Notwithstanding the good intentions of Congress and the executive branch, including eight years of the Obama administration and over a year into your administration, the United States has failed to formulate, implement, and declare a comprehensive cyber doctrine with an appropriate sense of urgency. We urge you to end this state of inaction immediately. Much like our nuclear deterrent, a strong cyber doctrine by the United States government would serve as a deterrent, which is not only necessary, but critical to our nation’s survival in the digital age. Our adversaries need to understand the boundaries of what is acceptable in the cyber domain, as well as the circumstances under which we would utilize offensive capabilities to retaliate against cyber-attacks. Our increased reliance on the internet has created new threats and vulnerabilities to our nation's infrastructure and our way of life. Critical infrastructure such as the electric grid, oil pipelines, air traffic control, and financial institutions all use the internet and can be manipulated, disrupted, and in some cases even destroyed. Beyond physical damage, state sponsored disinformation and data manipulation campaigns have sowed lines of division and discord within our country and have targeted the very foundation of our democracy – the electoral process. We urge you to provide us an immediate update on the status of the United States government’s cyber deterrence strategy including a timeline of its progress and an anticipated timeline for completion. Sincerely, Cc: Mr. Rob Joyce Special Assistant to the President and White House Cyber Security Coordinator ###
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Rounds Statement on Tariff Announcement Raises Concerns About its Impact on Ag Economy, National Security WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s tariff announcement: “While I appreciate the president’s attempt to bolster the U.S. steel and aluminum industries, I remain concerned about the negative consequences this policy change could generate. Producers in South Dakota are rightly concerned about disruptions in the trade market. If other countries decide to retaliate, it may impact our sales of corn, wheat, soybeans, livestock and other commodities during an already volatile time in the ag economy. “Additionally, as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am concerned about the tariff’s impact on our relationships with our allies throughout the globe. Maintaining strong relationships with our allies is vital as we seek to defend our nation and promote our shared democratic values and freedoms. Imposing tariffs must not alienate key partners that play a pivotal role in our national defense and international stability.” Rounds recently joined a number of his colleagues in a letter to President Trump to outline their concerns about the potential negative effects the tariff could have on international relationships and national security. Text of the letter can be found HERE.
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Rounds: FARM Act will Prevent Farmers and Ranchers from Being Subject to Needless EPA Regulations Stanley County Rancher Todd Mortenson Testifies at D.C. Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today held a legislative hearing on the Fair Agricultural Reporting Method (FARM) Act, which he introduced earlier this year with seven of his colleagues, and is now cosponsored by 33 other senators. One of the witnesses at the hearing was Todd Mortenson, owner and operator of Mortenson Ranch in Hayes, S.D. “Cattle producers pride themselves on being good stewards of our country’s national resources,” said Mortenson in his testimony, “We maintain open spaces, healthy rangelands, provide wildlife habitat and feed the world. But to provide all these important functions, we must be able to operate without excessive federal burdens…The FARM act will ensure that precious time and monetary resources are not siphoned from important cleanup efforts to address a paperwork requirement with no environmental or public health benefit.” “American farmers and ranchers are already required to comply with multiple federal regulations governing how they run their operations,” said Rounds in his opening statement. “Complying with these federal regulations require hours of paperwork, time, money and resources, all of which take them away from actually being able to work on their land. We should not make them subject to additional layers of bureaucracy that Congress never intended them to be subject to… The FARM Act prevents U.S. farmers and ranchers from being subject to needless regulations that have no environmental benefit.” Full text of Rounds’ remarks can be found here. ###
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on FARM Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered his opening statement at a hearing entitled “Legislative Hearing on S. 2421, the Fair Agricultural Reporting Method (FARM) Act.” Rounds introduced the FARM Act with a bipartisan group of senators earlier this year. “American farmers and ranchers are already required to comply with multiple federal regulations governing how they run their operations,” said Rounds in his opening statement. “Complying with these federal regulations require hours of paperwork, time, money and resources, all of which take them away from actually being able to work on their land. We should not make them subject to additional layers of bureaucracy that Congress never intended them to be subject to… The FARM Act prevents U.S. farmers and ranchers from being subject to needless regulations that have no environmental benefit.” Full video of opening remarks: HERE Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a legislative hearing on S. 2421, the Fair Agricultural Reporting Method, or FARM Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, was established to manage hazardous waste, and respond to environmental emergencies, spills and natural disasters. Under CERCLA, the owner or operator of a facility must report the release of a certain amount of a hazardous substance to authorities within 24 hours. This is to make certain that first responders have the information they need to adequately respond to a release of a hazardous substance into the environment and surrounding community. Although ammonia and hydrogen sulfide are both considered hazardous substances under CERCLA, and both are emitted into the air from animal manure, Congress never intended normal agricultural operations and American farmers to be subject to the reporting requirements under these laws. CERCLA was intended to make certain state and federal officials have the information they need in the event they have to respond to an emergency release of a hazardous substance. It is unlikely federal officials would be required to respond to an emergency release at a cattle operation or a poultry farm, particularly one resulting from animal waste or emissions. Further, it is unlikely the U.S. Coast Guard, which coordinates CERCLA reporting, has the resources to manage the nearly 200,000 farms that would be required to report their daily activities under this rule. This additional burden on resources could potentially hinder the ability of first responders to respond to real emergencies. Accordingly, in 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released a rule exempting animal waste at agricultural operations from CERCLA reporting. However, in 2017, the D.C. Circuit Court, in Waterkeeper Alliance v. EPA, vacated the EPA’s 2008 rule. This decision leaves approximately 200,000 American farmers subject to bureaucratic and burdensome reporting and paperwork requirements that may overwhelm first responders, while the benefits of this regulation are questionable at best. That is why I have worked with Senator Fischer, Chairman Barrasso, Ranking Member Carper and the rest of my bipartisan colleagues to introduce the Fair Agricultural Reporting Method, or “FARM” Act. This legislation would reinstate the CERCLA reporting exemption for air emissions from animal waste so that American farmers and ranchers will not be burdened by needless federal regulations, and can continue to do what they do best. American farmers and ranchers are already required to comply with multiple federal regulations governing how they run their operations. Complying with these federal regulations require hours of paperwork, time, money and resources, all of which take them away from actually being able to work on their land. We should not make them subject to additional layers of bureaucracy that Congress never intended them to be subject to. It should also be noted that CERCLA is the basis for EPA’s Superfund program. This law was intended to allow the EPA to coordinate cleanups of hazardous waste, or superfund sites. A U.S. farm or ranch is most certainly not a superfund site, and should not be regulated as such. The FARM Act prevents U.S. farmers and ranchers from being subject to needless regulations that have no environmental benefit. I’d like to thank Senator Fischer and Chairman Barrasso for their leadership on this issue. I am glad we are able to work in a bipartisan fashion to move this bill forward. Our witnesses today are members of the agricultural community with decades of experience in farming and ranching. They are well-versed in agricultural operations and how federal regulations affect their way of life and their ability to do business and provide the food that we all rely on. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being here with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ### Press Contact
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Rounds: Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act Will Strengthen America’s Financial System, Expand Economic Opportunities WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today spoke on the Senate floor in support of the bipartisan Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act, of which he is an original cosponsor. This legislation, which includes seven of Rounds’ provisions, will provide much-needed regulatory relief to community banks and credit unions, whose ability to serve their customers has been made more difficult since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. “Just in the last year, we enacted historic tax reform, we’ve undone burdensome and unnecessary regulations at a record pace, and we’re restoring the American people’s confidence at levels not seen in decades,” said Rounds in his speech. “Making sure American families and businesses have access to credit when they need it is critical as we work to further grow our economy and create jobs. The ‘Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act’ will strengthen America’s financial system and expand economic opportunities across the country, especially in rural areas, which are often the most underserved.” Full text of Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today in support of the “Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act,” which is being considered on the Senate floor this week. As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this important legislation, which will provide much-needed regulatory relief to our community banks and credit unions, whose ability to serve their customers has been made more difficult since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. Enacted in 2010, Dodd-Frank was an over-reaction to the 2008 financial crisis. Rather than actually addressing the underlying issues that caused the financial crisis, Dodd-Frank created a massive new bureaucracy and saddled our financial institutions with burdensome and onerous new regulations. It is 2,300 pages in length and created more than 400 new rulemakings, which led to more than 27,000 new federal mandates on American businesses. This limits the ability of our financial institutions to grow and serve their customers, especially for smaller banks in rural areas, such as my home state of South Dakota. Just last summer, the U.S. Department of Treasury reported that the regulatory burdens of Dodd-Frank have reduced economic growth and “Undermined the ability of banks to deliver attractively priced credit in sufficient quantity to meet the needs of the economy.” Without question, no one wants to repeat the events that contributed to the economic recession that began in 2008. We are only now beginning to lift out of that nearly decade-long economic slump, thanks to the tax relief law and President Trump’s focus on regulatory reform. Just in the last year, we enacted historic tax reform, we’ve undone burdensome and unnecessary regulations at a record pace, and we’re restoring the American people’s confidence at levels not seen in decades. But we must do more, which is why our bipartisan legislation is so important. Making sure American families and businesses have access to credit when they need it is critical as we work to further grow our economy and create jobs. The “Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act” will strengthen America’s financial system and expand economic opportunities across the country, especially in rural areas, which are often the most underserved. Of the many fatal flaws of Dodd-Frank, perhaps most damaging was its ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach. By taking a one-size-fits-all approach, Dodd-Frank imposed disproportionate compliance costs on our smaller, community banks and credit unions, especially given the improbability that these smaller institutions pose a significant risk to our financial system. This type of approach is particularly harmful to our smaller financial institutions which are so vital to our communities. With more than 6,500 community banks throughout the country supporting even the remotest areas, we must make certain we are helping - not hindering - their ability to serve their communities. Almost half of small businesses, which we all know are the driver of job creation and economic growth in America, are supported by small community banks. Providing these institutions with regulatory relief is critical, which is what our legislation does. Let me go through some highlights, which includes seven provisions or bills I introduced: It includes the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, which I introduced with Senator Heitkamp earlier this year, and will provide small banks and credit unions with data reporting relief. We also provide relief from Dodd-Frank capital rules that allows banks to count high-quality municipal bonds toward capital requirements, providing help to both banks and local governments that issue debt. Our legislation also streamlines federal rules to help small, local federal savings associations, known as FSAs or thrifts, expand their ability to offer loans to more families and businesses without going through a costly charter conversion process. It also includes parts of the Community Bank Access to Capital Act, which would: Free small banks from having to complete arduous and expensive tests mandated by Dodd-Frank; and Make it easier for banks with less than $3 billion dollars in assets to raise capital and grow. I’m also pleased it includes my provision to protect the credit of our nation’s veterans, so that vets who are waiting on delayed payments from the VA Choice Program cannot lose credit ratings because of it. It also protects seniors by removing liability for financial services institutions and professionals reporting suspected fraud of senior citizens to the authorities. We also provide relief to small public housing agencies in rural areas by reducing regulatory burdens on, and increasing flexibility for these entities. This bill also provides rural appraisal relief for cases when borrowers have trouble finding a qualified appraiser. Our bill also gives the Federal Reserve flexibility in designating banks as systemically important, exempting banks with less than $100 billion in assets from several Dodd-Frank provisions that apply to Systemically Important Financial Institutions, or SIFIs, including reporting requirements, limits on lending and limits on mergers and acquisitions. It would also allow banks with assets between $100 billion and $250 billion dollars to receive relief from the tighter oversight applied by Dodd-Frank. This would exempt 15 regional and midsize banks from these more stringent rules. Meanwhile, more than a dozen of the country’s largest banks will still have to comply with SIFI requirements. We also eliminate barriers to jobs by allowing mortgage loan originators to work temporarily in a new state or for a new financial institution while their applications for new licenses are pending. Our bill also requires the Treasury to study and report on the risks of cyber threats to our financial institutions and capital markets. Finally, our bill provides regulatory relief from the enhanced supplemental leverage ratio for certain banks that service organizations like mutual funds and state and local pension plans. This benefits countless local governments across the country that do business with these banks. In my home state alone, this includes the State of South Dakota, the South Dakota Retirement System, Rapid City Regional Hospital, the city of Vermillion and the Watertown School District, just to name a few. While this provision will not help all banks, it will affect some banks, which benefits consumers. And in the future, perhaps we can give the same relief to ALL banks that offer these services. These provisions, along with the many others of our bill, will strengthen our financial system in the U.S. and reduce the unnecessary burdens on smaller and midsized banks so they can focus on serving their communities, not complying with layers of bureaucracy. Making sure families and businesses have access to credit when they need it is critical as we work to grow a healthy American economy. Every step we can take to provide relief to our lenders is a win for families and businesses who rely on them to run their businesses, buy a home or save for college. Small community banks don’t think of banking in terms of ‘derivatives’ and ‘default swaps’ like they do on Wall Street; they think of banking in terms of how they can best serve their communities – their friends, neighbors, store owners and job providers. Our bipartisan “Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act” will help these lenders focus on doing just that. I thank Chairman Crapo and the other 24 sponsors of this legislation for their commitment to working together to provide much-needed relief that will enhance our ability to grow our economy. Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ###
03.05.2018	03.05.18 Rounds Asks Army Corps for Update on Steps it is Taking to Avoid Flood WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, wrote to Army Corps Assistant Secretary R.D. James to ask for a briefing on the 2018 Missouri River management plan. Recent reports show that mountain snowpack is already above average in the Upper Missouri River Basin, with most of the snowpack expected to accumulate in the coming months. The melting snowpack in the spring and corresponding runoff can pose a significant flood risk along the Missouri River. “These snowpack levels so early in the season are concerning and in the following months it will be vital that the Corps carefully monitor these levels, properly manage winter and spring releases along the Missouri River and frequently and effectively communicate with the communities in the Missouri River basin,” wrote Rounds in the letter. Additionally, Rounds asked for an update on the Missouri River Snowpack and Drought Monitoring Program, which was authorized in 2014 to enhance monitoring efforts that can help mitigate potential disasters along the river. “The Missouri River Snowpack and Drought Monitoring Program was created to make certain the U.S. Army Corps has the information and the tools necessary to manage the Missouri River in a way that protects communities from flood threats posed by the annual runoff,” Rounds wrote. “As the lead agency, the Corps should take all necessary steps to quickly and fully implement this program.” Full text of the letter: Dear Assistant Secretary James, I am writing to request a briefing on the 2018 Missouri River management plan and an update on the implementation of the Missouri River Snowpack and Drought Monitoring Program. As you know, in 2011, due to large levels of snowfall in the Rocky Mountains and the Northern Plains, extensive flooding impacted tributaries and the mainstream Missouri River. This flooding caused more than $2 billion in damage and thousands of people were forced to evacuate their homes. In many areas, the flooding and subsequent damage it caused continued for months. In my opinion, failure to appropriately respond in a timely fashion led to significant increase in flooding and damage. Following the flood, a 2014 Government Accountability Office concluded that improving existing hydrological data and collecting additional soil moisture and plains snowpack data could assist the Corps in making future release decisions and improving long-term forecasting models. In response to the lack of remote field condition information prior to the 2011 Missouri River Flood, Section 4003 of the 2014 Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) law authorized the Corps to coordinate with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric (NOAA), Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) to create a soil moisture and snowpack monitoring network in the Upper Missouri River Basin. In 2016, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (PL 114-322) authorized the U.S. Army Corps to become the lead agency for implementing this program. However, it is my understanding that the Corps has not yet fully implemented this monitoring program. Recent reports indicate that mountain snowpack to date is 129 percent of average above Fort Peck, and 135 of average from Fort Peck to Fort Garrison, with most snowpack expected to accumulate in the following months. In the spring, this melting snowpack and the corresponding runoff can pose a significant flood risk to the Northern Plains states. These snowpack levels so early in the season are concerning and in the following months it will be vital that the Corps carefully monitor these levels, properly manage winter and spring releases along the Missouri River and frequently and effectively communicate with the communities in the Missouri River basin. Further, the Missouri River Snowpack and Drought Monitoring Program was created to make certain the U.S. Army Corps has the information and the tools necessary to manage the Missouri River in a way that protects communities from flood threats posed by the annual runoff. As the lead agency, the Corps should take all necessary steps to quickly and fully implement this program. At your earliest convenience, I am requesting a briefing on the Corps’ plans to manage the Missouri River and corresponding releases in light of these recent snowpack levels and an update on the status of the implementation of the Missouri River Snowpack and Drought Monitoring Program. I appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to hearing from you. # # #
02.21.2018	02.21.18 Rounds, Colleagues Urge President to Re-Engage in TPP WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined 25 of his colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump supporting his recent comments about re-engaging in Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade negotiations. “Reducing barriers to trade and investment, protecting American intellectual property rights and leveling the playing field for U.S. businesses, manufacturers, farmers, fishermen and ranchers is of utmost importance, and we ask that you prioritize engagement with the TPP so that the American people can prosper from the tremendous opportunities that these trading partners bring,” wrote the senators. They continued, emphasizing that an “improved TPP would therefore bolster and sustain the economic growth America has experienced over the past year facilitated by the regulatory reductions and reforms enacted by your Administration and the substantial tax cuts that you signed into law.” The letter was sent prior to President Trump’s scheduled meeting with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull at the White House later this week. The two leaders are expected to discuss trade and ways to promote economic growth for both nations. Rounds joined Senators Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), James Risch (R-Idaho), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), and Richard Burr (R-N.C.). ### Related Files 021618 Letter to POTUS on TPP1.PDF
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Provide Certainty for Farmers and Ranchers Bipartisan Legislation Would Exempt Ag Producers from Reporting Requirements for Animal Waste Emissions WASHINGTON –U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, along with seven of his Senate colleagues, today introduced the Fair Agricultural Reporting Method (FARM) Act. The bipartisan bill would protect farmers, ranchers and livestock markets from burdensome Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reporting requirements for animal waste emissions. These requirements were not intended to affect animal agriculture and instead were meant to address dangerous industrial pollution, chemical plant explosions and the release of hazardous materials into the environment. “Treating farms, ranches and small livestock operations like Superfund sites is not what Congress intended when it passed CERCLA,” said Rounds. “These programs were enacted to clean up land that has been identified by the EPA as hazardous or contaminated and make certain America’s communities can safely manage hazardous substances. They were not intended to be imposed on family farming operations, who are working to use the best science in order to produce enough food and fuel for a growing global population. Our bill codifies this intent into law to prevent activist interest groups from attempting to redefine congressional intent related to CERCLA in the future.” The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) are laws on the books that require entities to notify authorities when they release large quantities of hazardous materials. In 2008, the EPA published a final rule exempting most livestock operations from the laws’ reporting requirements. In April 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ruled EPA did not have the authority to create this exemption for agriculture, creating confusion and uncertainty for America’s ag producers. The FARM Act would: Maintain the exemption for certain federally registered pesticides from reporting requirements within CERCLA. Exempt air emissions from animal waste on a farm from reporting requirements under CERCLA. Provide agriculture producers with greater certainty by reinstating the status quo producers have been operating under since EPA’s 2008 final rule. ###
02.13.2018	02.13.18 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at Cybersecurity Subcommittee Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, today delivered his opening statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on the Department of Defense’s role in protecting democratic elections. “There is no dispute about what Russia did during the 2016 election cycle,” said Rounds in his opening statement. “There is clear evidence that Russia attempted to undermine our democratic process through the these issues with a hacking of independent political entities, manipulation of social media and use of propaganda venues such as Russia Today…The Department of Defense has a critical role to play in challenging and influencing the mindset of our cyber adversaries and defending the homeland from attacks—attacks that could include cyber-attacks by other nations against our election infrastructure. We look forward to the department approaching heightened sense of urgency.” Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: The Cybersecurity Subcommittee meets this afternoon to receive testimony on the Department of Defense’s role in protecting the U.S. election process. The witnesses are: Mr. Bob Butler, Co-Founder and Managing Director of Cyber Strategies LLC; Ms. Heather Conley, the Senior Vice President for Europe, Eurasia and the Arctic, and Director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; Dr. Richard Harknett, the Head of Political Science at the University of Cincinnati and a former Scholar-in-Residence at U.S. Cyber Command and the National Security Agency; and Dr. Michael Sulmeyer, the Director of the Cyber Security Project at the Harvard Kennedy School. At the conclusion of Ranking Member Nelson’s comments, we will ask our witnesses to make their opening remarks. After that, we will have a round of questions and answers. There is no dispute about what Russia did during the 2016 election cycle. There is clear evidence that Russia attempted to undermine our democratic process through the hacking of independent political entities, manipulation of social media and use of propaganda venues such as Russia Today. Evidence to date indicates that no polls or state election systems were manipulated to change the outcome of the vote. However, there was evidence of Russian probing of certain election systems in 21 states. The Department of Defense has a critical role to play in challenging and influencing the mindset of our cyber adversaries and defending the homeland from attacks—attacks that could include cyber-attacks by other nations against our election infrastructure. We look forward to the department approaching these issues with a heightened sense of urgency. The threat is not going away. Just a couple of weeks ago, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency warned that Russia will seek to influence the upcoming mid-term elections. The White House National Security Advisor stated in December that we have seen initial signs of Russian meddling in the 2018 Mexican presidential campaign. This is all in addition to Russian attempts to influence the elections in France and Germany last year. Each of us on this panel has been quite vocal about the need for a strategy that seizes the strategic high ground in cyberspace. Whether you call it deterrence or something else, we need a strategy that moves out of the trenches and imposes costs on our adversaries. The lack of consequences for the countless attacks over the past decade has emboldened our adversaries and left us vulnerable to emboldened behavior. The attacks we experienced during the 2016 election are just the latest rung on that escalation ladder. As long as our adversaries feel that they can act with impunity, they will press further. Our witnesses offer unique perspectives on the challenges we face. We look to them to help us understand why our posture of restraint has not worked, if we can reverse the damage already done and what it will take to develop and implement a strategy that limits our exposure and imposes costs on malicious behavior. We invited Dr. Richard Harknett to explain his theory of cyber persistence: specifically on how our failure to tailor our strategies to the uniqueness of the cyber domain limits our ability to confront the challenges we face. Our adversaries actively exploit us because they see great benefit and little consequence in doing so. I agree with Dr. Harknett that Cold War models of deterrence won’t work and look forward to hearing what he believes it will take to influence the mindset of our adversaries. In addition to his writings on cyber deterrence and election attacks, Dr. Michael Sulmeyer has focused a great deal of his research on the organizational challenges we face as a government. We understand that Dr. Sulmeyer is working on a paper addressing some of the challenges we examined during our full committee hearing in October on the whole-of-government approach to cybersecurity. We look forward to hearing more from Dr. Sulmeyer on the gaps and seams he sees in our organizational model and what lessons we can learn from allies like the British. Ms. Heather Conley provides an expertise in Russian politics and foreign policy. Russia has yet to face serious consequences, in the cyber or other domains, for its 2016 elections interference; we look forward to Ms. Conley’s testimony on how the United States can tailor and implement these penalties and how the department can best deter or dissuade further Russian elections meddling. We also look forward to the testimony of Mr. Bob Butler, who brings extensive cyber experience in both the Department of Defense and the private sector. Mr. Butler has been involved in numerous studies on cyber deterrence, including the recent Defense Science Board task force on cyber deterrence. Let me close by thanking our witnesses for their willingness to appear today before our subcommittee. ###
02.12.2018	02.12.18 Rounds, Colleagues Urge VA to Honor Veterans’ Emergency Care Claims Senators Urge VA to Reimburse Veterans for Their Emergency Treatment Claims Before Recent Court Decision WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, along with 11 of his Senate colleagues, today sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin to request that the VA reimburse veterans who were billed for emergency treatment at private hospitals. In January, the VA announced that it would not retroactively reimburse veterans for their emergency treatment despite a court decision that ruled the VA is responsible for emergency medical costs at private, non-VA hospitals. In response, the Senators wrote to VA Secretary David Shulkin urging him to reimburse veterans who filed a claim for emergency medical costs before the court ruling. “Between 2010 and April 16, 2016, the VA erroneously denied thousands of veterans’ claims for emergency treatment,” the senators wrote. “With the VA’s recent interpretation of this ruling, veterans who filed claims before April 16, 2016, would see no relief from the VA’s wrongful application of the law and would be stuck paying medical bills that Congress intended that the VA pay. We ask that the VA include those veterans whose claims were decided before April 16, 2016, so that all veterans can fully take advantage of a benefit Congress intended they receive.” The Expansion of Veteran Eligibility for Reimbursement Act, enacted in 2010, directed the VA to pay for veterans’ emergency treatment at non-VA facilities unless the veteran has another form of insurance that entirely covers their medical costs. Since 2010, the VA has denied thousands of claims because a veteran’s other insurance partially paid for their treatment, leaving veterans to cover the difference for costly emergency care. The U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims ruled on April 16, 2016, that the VA’s interpretation of its responsibility for non-VA emergency treatment was wrong and ordered the VA to begin paying these claims. Despite that, the VA has chosen not to pay veterans who filed before the 2016 court ruling. The VA released its new policy regarding payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment at private hospitals on January 9, 2018. The VA will only pay for new claims or those not decided prior to April 16, 2016. Sens. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) also signed the letter to Secretary Shulkin. ### Related Files 2_9_18 Staab letter to Shulkin from Tester, Rounds et al.pdf
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Rounds Statement on Judge Wollman WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on Judge Roger Wollman’s decision to take senior status on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and will soon complete his regular active service. “I thank Judge Wollman for his service to our state and his lifetime commitment to our legal system,” said Rounds. “Originally appointed by President Ronald Reagan, Judge Wollman has spent his career faithfully upholding the principles of the Constitution. I wish him all the best as he continues to serve South Dakotans as a Senior Circuit Court Judge.”
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Providing Obamacare Relief for South Dakotans Obamacare premiums rose 20 percent for South Dakotans this year, and I continue to hear stories of fewer health care options and out-of-control health care costs as a result of the ill-advised Affordable Care Act. While repealing Obamacare and replacing it with a consumer-driven, truly affordable system remains a top priority for me, we continue to take meaningful steps to provide Americans relief from this law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act helped relieve Americans from Obamacare, by including provisions to delay the Medical Device Tax and the Cadillac Tax for two years and by delaying the excise tax on health insurance plans for one year. Importantly, this legislation also repealed Obamacare’s individual mandate, so that nobody will be forced to pay a tax penalty if they don’t want to purchase health care coverage that they don’t want or need. The individual mandate was an unpopular tax in an unpopular law that disproportionately hurt low-income families. We’re glad to see it go away. We were also able to successfully repeal Obamacare’s Independent Payment Advisory Board, which is a special panel of unelected bureaucrats tasked with finding savings in Medicare by rationing health services for seniors. The Trump administration has also taken steps to give states more flexibility in administering federal mandatory spending programs. Most recently, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced it will give states more flexibility regarding work requirements for certain Medicaid beneficiaries. This will allow governors and state government leaders to shape state Medicaid policies that work best for their state rather than following rules issued by Washington bureaucrats. Already, a number of states have applied or intend to apply for work requirement waivers, including in South Dakota. President Lyndon B. Johnson created Medicaid in 1965 as part of his War on Poverty. The intent of the program was to provide health services for low-income children, seniors in need, individuals with disabilities and pregnant mothers. It was designed to be a pathway out of poverty. As Americans, we take care of the most vulnerable in our society—the very young, the very old and those who cannot take care of themselves. The Affordable Care Act opened up Medicaid to include healthy, able-bodied, working-age men and women, which has added to the high cost of the program. In 2015, an estimated 70 million people were enrolled in Medicaid. That is 21 percent of our entire population! Medicaid and other mandatory spending programs like Medicare and Social Security are on an unsustainable path. In the long-term, Congress needs to reform the federal budget process so that it can exercise greater control over the sustainability of mandatory spending. In the short-term, giving states the flexibility to manage Medicaid in new, innovative ways will help make Medicaid more manageable. These are important steps toward our goal of eliminating the unpopular aspects of Obamacare, but the fact remains that premiums are still too high, insurance companies are leaving the marketplace and millions of Americans have been forced off plans they liked. I will continue to work with my colleagues to relieve hardworking families from Obamacare’s perils as we seek to make health care truly affordable and accessible for all Americans.
02.06.2018	02.06.18 Rounds: Defense Appropriations Bill Brings Much-Needed Stability to Defense Department and Improves Military Readiness WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today spoke on the Senate floor to urge his colleagues to support the defense appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018. During last month’s continuing resolution negotiations, Rounds pushed to schedule a vote on the defense appropriations bill and received assurances from leadership that it would be brought to the floor in a timely manner. “Providing long-term funding stability for our armed forces is vital to their ability to adequately train, equip and maintain the force,” said Rounds in his speech. “In particular, under short-term, stopgap funding measures known as continuing resolutions, the Defense Department is restricted from starting new programs which is deeply concerning in today’s rapidly-changing threat environment. If we are to adequately recover readiness levels that were lost over the last eight years as well as modernize our armed forces in this increasingly dangerous and complex world, we must give them the funding stability and certainty that continuing resolutions fail to provide.” Full text of Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the defense appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018. I’d like to start by thanking the Majority Leader for bringing the defense appropriations bill to the Senate floor. Providing long-term funding stability for our armed forces is vital to their ability to adequately train, equip and maintain the force. In particular, under short-term, stopgap funding measures known as continuing resolutions, the Defense Department is restricted from starting new programs which is deeply concerning in today’s rapidly-changing threat environment. If we are to adequately recover readiness levels that were lost over the last eight years as well as modernize our armed forces in this increasingly dangerous and complex world, we must give them the funding stability and certainty that continuing resolutions fail to provide. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness, I am pleased that the subcommittee has held two hearings this year on our services' readiness posture. Today, I would like to share a few examples of readiness issues facing our military force. The first are issues plaguing our navy, and both demonstrate the need to adequately fund not only our Navy but all branches of our armed forces. The first issue concerns the F/A-18 Hornet aircraft. Vice Chief of Naval Operations Admiral William Moran has stated that our legacy F/A-18A and D Hornets today take twice as many man hours as originally planned for repairs and maintenance. He has also stated that "on a typical day in the Navy, about 25 to 30 percent of our jets and our airplanes are in some kind of depot maintenance," and overall just over half are unavailable for operations today. To sum up the Admiral’s comments, the navy is putting in twice the maintenance man hours to maintain a fleet that is less than 50 percent available. In a crisis situation, the Vice Chief said that, again I’m quoting, "We can and we do put ready airplanes and ready air crew’s forward," but "there's no depth on the bench behind them if we had to surge forces." The Marine Corps is also experiencing serious readiness issues with its F-18 fleet. And there is a human cost. On December 8, 2016, the Marine Corps announced that yet another pilot had been killed as a result of a training accident in the F/A-18 Hornet. This was the third Marine Corps F/A-18 Hornet “class A” mishap, which is defined as an accident resulting in a death or the complete loss of aircraft, over a month-and-a-half time period. In the previous 22 months, the Marine Corps had experienced seven “class A” mishaps flying legacy F/A-18 Hornets. Sadly, some or all of these mishaps might have been avoided with the additional training and maintenance that would have been forthcoming with additional funding. Returning to the Navy, its maintenance-related readiness concerns extend to its attack submarine fleet. Admiral Moran recently mentioned that attack submarines are sometimes sent to private shipyards for maintenance because government shipyards are already at capacity with higher priority work, specifically on aircraft carriers and ballistic missile submarines. But the private shipyards do not have the capacity to take on extra repair work. This lack of shipyard capacity is severely impacting our attack submarine fleet. For example the USS Albany attack submarine spent 48 months in the repair yard due to repeated delays as the workforce focused its attention on aircraft carriers and ballistic missile submarines, meaning an entire crew spent years waiting for a deployment that never came. Worse still, the USS Boise attack submarine wasn't even put into the shipyard last summer because the shipyard workload was so far over workforce capacity. As a result, that boat is currently sitting in Norfolk, Virginia, and is not certified to dive while it awaits maintenance. In fact, the Boise will not be able to rejoin the fleet until 2020 or even later. That means that this vital navy asset will be unavailable for at least 48 months. In fact a maintenance backlog has docked 15 nuclear-power attack submarines for a total of 177 months, or almost 15 years. Further, while I am discussing some serious navy readiness challenges, all of our services face readiness challenges. Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson recently said that “the fiscal 2018 continuing resolution is actually delaying our efforts to increase the readiness of the force, and risk accumulates over time. We are stretching the force to the limit, and we need to start turning the corner on readiness.” With a shortage of nearly 2000 pilots of about 20,000 total, Secretary Wilson went on to say that current active duty pilots were burning out because the Air Force was too small for what the nation is asking. “Our biggest need right now is for a higher and stable budget to provide security and solvency for the nation,” she said. According to Defense Secretary James Mattis, operating under a continuing resolution for 2018 runs the risk of delaying vital projects and increasing their costs, including 37 Navy projects, 16 Air Force projects and 38 Army projects. The projects that could be impacted include progress on new trainer aircraft, weapons systems and important training programs. The most important things that congress can do to solve these problems are provide funding stability, and avoid arbitrary budget caps that constrain defense spending below that which is required to protect our nation. This bill does both. More specifically, only by removing these caps can we avoid the Department of Defense having to make difficult choices that are so devastating for our armed forces. In particular, we must avoid their having to make the false choice of paying for readiness while assuming risk for modernization or vice-versa. The American people expect us to adequately defend America next year and for every year to come. This requires us to put an end to Continuing Resolutions and remove arbitrary budget caps and the threat of sequestration. Only by doing so, can congress fulfill its number one responsibility – keeping Americans safe. I conclude by again thanking the majority leader for bringing the Fiscal Year 2018 defense appropriations bill to the floor. I ask all of my colleagues to support it, get it to the president’s desk as soon as possible and finally bring an end to the defense component of a CR that, with arbitrary budget caps, is so severely impacting the readiness of our armed forces. ###
02.06.2018	02.06.18 Rounds Introduces Bill Incentivizing Community Banks to Provide Credit to Small Businesses and Farms WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today introduced the Access Business Credit Act of 2018. This legislation would incentivize community banks to provide loans to small businesses and farmers by excluding from a lender’s income interest earned on small business loans and loans secured by farm land. “South Dakota’s community banks provide the capital that small business owners and family farmers rely on to grow their businesses and support jobs in cities and towns across our state,” said Rounds. “By making it easier for community banks to provide capital, South Dakota’s small businesses will be able to focus on expanding, creating more jobs and investing in their communities. Additionally, family farmers and ranchers can focus on production and improving efficiencies during a time in which the farm economy has seen a significant downturn. Fewer barriers to accessing credit can provide them with a much-needed boost.” “Congress took a great step forward last year in promoting economic development by approving sweeping changes to the federal tax code,” said Curt Everson, President of the South Dakota Bankers Association. “South Dakota’s bankers applaud Senator Rounds for introducing the Access Business Credit Act, providing additional tax relief in support of lending by main street banks to their small business and farm customers.” “This provision is a wonderful way to help small businesses in South Dakota stimulate growth and reinvest into our communities,” said Megan Olson, President and CEO of the Independent Community Bankers of South Dakota. “Small business and community banks have the exact same mission in mind, to see a successful main street. This helps to achieve that!” Under this legislation, banks are allowed to deduct two types of qualified interest from their income, provided that neither type of interest exceeds $5 million. This includes interest incurred in the ordinary course of business of a small business and any interest secured by land used or held by a small business in conjunction with farming operations. This legislation would benefit nearly every community bank in South Dakota and is supported by the South Dakota Bankers Association and the Independent Community Bankers of South Dakota. A companion bill has been introduced in the House by Rep. Rod Blum (R-Iowa). ###
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Rounds Statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Trump laid out a long-term vision for our country,” said Rounds. “Last year during his address to Congress, the president discussed his ideas for what we want our country to look like in the year 2026, America’s 250th birthday. I, too, have shared my vision for our country in 2026, and I am pleased tonight’s speech continued to build on a long-term vision. We all want a freer, more united country in which government is less intrusive and the American dream is possible for everyone. We’ve made strides in the past year by enacting historic tax cuts, reducing burdensome regulations and restoring balance to the courts by confirming fair-minded judges who adhere to the Constitution as it was written. I am proud to be a part of that effort.” “While we have much progress to be proud of, we also have much work to do, and it will take hard work from both parties in both chambers and the White House to accomplish our goals. I look forward to continue working with the president and my colleagues as we address the most pressing issues before us, including national security, growing our economy so Americans have greater economic security, our growing national debt and failed appropriations process, immigration reform which includes border security, and so many other issues important to South Dakotans. With just eight years until America’s 250th birthday, we must not let up on our efforts as we continue to make progress on our vision for America in which we are freer, safer and more prosperous for generations to come.”
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Rounds Joins 35 Senators in Letter to President Outlining Benefits of NAFTA WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with 35 of his colleagues, today sent a letter to President Trump highlighting the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to the United States and outlining how President Trump can improve the agreement. “NAFTA supports 14 million jobs, representing thousands of jobs in each of the 50 states,” the senators wrote. "Despite all of its benefits, however, we can do better and there are opportunities to improve the agreement. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, expand energy exports to maximize domestic energy production and including provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce will make this agreement even more beneficial to the United States.” The letter was led by Sen. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and in addition to Rounds, was signed by Sens. Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). Full text of the letter: Mr. President: We write today to reaffirm the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and congratulate you on efforts to modernize the agreement and put America first. You have the opportunity to unleash the American economy like no President has done before and fuel historic growth. NAFTA has driven U.S. trade with Canada and Mexico to approximately $1.3 trillion annually. Whether manufacturers, farmers, or insurance providers, a wide range of industries in the U.S. have benefitted from this agreement and American consumers are reaping those benefits, too. Canadians and Mexicans buy nearly $500 billion worth of U.S. manufactured goods each year, translating to $37,000 in export revenue for every American factory worker, and U.S. agricultural exports to the two countries have quadrupled under the agreement from $8.9 billion in 1993 to $38.1 billion in 2016. NAFTA supports 14 million jobs, representing thousands of jobs in each of the 50 states. Despite all of its benefits, however, we can do better and there are opportunities to improve the agreement. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, expand energy exports to maximize domestic energy production and including provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce will make this agreement even more beneficial to the United States. Mr. President, your leadership has jump-started our economy. The recent tax reform bill is already leading to economic success across all industries and the stock market is at record highs. The next step to advance the economy requires that we keep NAFTA in place, but modernize it to better reflect our 21st century economy. We look forward to working with you and your Administration to make that modernization a reality and bring Americans even greater economic success. ###
01.29.2018	01.29.18 Rounds Statement on Senate Vote on Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), an original cosponsor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, today made the following statement after it failed to receive enough votes to advance in the Senate: “We have an obligation to defend the dignity of all life, from conception to natural death,” said Rounds. “Unborn children feel pain at the 20 week mark of pregnancy, and are even able to begin to hear at that point in the second trimester. The United States is one of only seven countries, including China and North Korea, which allows abortions after 20 weeks. I am proud to have been an original cosponsor of this legislation. Despite today’s failed vote, I will continue fighting for an end to this inhumane practice.” The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would limit abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, as it has been found that unborn children can feel pain at that stage of pregnancy. Exceptions are included for rape, incest or to save the mother’s life. Rounds was also an original cosponsor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act when it was introduced during the previous congress. ###
01.26.2018	01.26.18 Rounds Nominates Sioux Falls Student Ryan Berry to U.S. Military Academy at West Point WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he has nominated Sioux Falls student Ryan Berry to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Berry is the son of Thomas and Laurie Berry of Sioux Falls and attends Holy Family High School in Broomfield, CO. He is one of 23 students Rounds has nominated to the service academies for the 2018 school year. “It’s an honor to nominate Ryan to the U.S. Military Academy,” said Rounds. “Ryan worked hard to maintain high academic standards and has proven leadership skills. We believe he will be successful at West Point. He also attended the West Point Summer Leaders Experience in 2017. We wish him all the best.” "I am honored to have the opportunity to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point,” said Berry. “I greatly appreciate Senator Rounds' consideration and nomination. I look forward to serving my country." Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. A full list of Rounds’ 2017 nominees can be found here. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
01.24.2018	01.24.18 Rounds Introduces Bill to Enhance Recreation on Federal Land WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today introduced the Guides and Outfitters Act (GO Act) in the Senate. The GO Act streamlines the recreation permitting process and allows for increased public access and recreation opportunities on federal lands. “In South Dakota, outdoor recreation is part of who we are,” said Rounds. “Whether camping in the Black Hills, hunting in Brown County or fishing on the Missouri, we greatly value the natural resources that allow us to enjoy outdoor activities with family and friends. The GO Act will streamline the permitting process on federal lands, reducing the cost and complexity of applying for recreation and special-use permits. By getting rid of excessive red tape and bureaucracy, outdoor enthusiasts will have an easier time accessing federal land for the recreational activities we greatly cherish.” The GO Act was written in close consultation with recreation groups across the country and passed the House of Representatives earlier this Congress. In addition to streamlining the permitting process, the GO Act caps permit fees, prevents federal agencies from imposing fees outside of federal lands and provides categorical exclusions for previously studied uses to eliminate duplicative studies that delay permits. # # #
01.20.2018	01.20.18 Rounds Statement on Government Shutdown WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement on the government shutdown: “For the 19th time in the 44 years since the modern budget process has been in place, the federal government has once again shut down because Congress could not get its work done on time. South Dakotans sent me to Washington to make informed policy decisions and be a responsible steward of taxpayer dollars. Continuing resolutions, which are just extensions of last year’s budget levels, fail to provide long-term certainty and stability, while government shutdowns waste taxpayer dollars. Reform of the budget process is absolutely necessary, however our immediate responsibility is to deal with the current government funding crisis. I will work with my colleagues to end this unnecessary shutdown as soon as possible. I have encouraged the bipartisan immigration reform efforts because the H2B visa program is important to many South Dakota businesses, and our economy in general. I support strengthening our border security as a priority. Progress is being made on this effort and we believe an agreement can be reached within a February timeframe. Unfortunately, while our Democrat colleagues have filibustered the continuing resolution, which includes Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) funding, and bear responsibility for the current government shutdown, I believe there are a number of them who are very serious about finding a solution. This is important to South Dakotans because there are over 16,000 kids eligible for the Children’s Health Insurance Program in our state. This program is currently in jeopardy. I’ve been a vocal critic of the continuing resolution process, particularly regarding its effect on our military, but I agreed to vote for it this time because I have received assurances that a vote on defense appropriations will occur in the Senate. I’ll continue to push for improvements to our budget process – but this is not a balanced way to govern.” ###
01.19.2018	01.19.18 Rounds Statement on CR Vote WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today made the following statement on his decision to vote for the current Continuing Resolution (CR): "Since coming to the Senate, I've expressed my frustration with our broken budget system, which hasn't worked in 40 of the last 44 years that the current budget process has been in place. Continuing Resolutions are ineffective and destabilize government programs. I am particularly concerned about the negative impact CRs have on our military personnel and readiness. Military leaders have repeatedly warned of the negative impact short-term CRs have on their ability to adequately train, equip and maintain the force. I have agreed to support the current Continuing Resolution after receiving assurances that legislation to adequately fund our troops will be considered in both the House and Senate in a timely manner. While not ideal, I am encouraged by this commitment to return to regular order by considering defense appropriations legislation in the near future so we can provide the necessary resources for our troops to conduct operations around the globe.” ###
01.18.2018	01.18.18 Rounds Statement on Meeting With DHS Secretary Emphasized the Importance of H2B Visas to South Dakota’s Tourism and Construction Industries WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today met with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to discuss ongoing border security and immigration reform efforts. “Secretary Nielsen and I had a great discussion about our shared goals of increasing border security, permanently fixing DACA, strengthening e-verify and – most importantly for South Dakota – increasing the cap on the number of H2B visas allotted annually so our seasonal construction and tourism industries can thrive,” said Rounds. “With one of the lowest unemployment rates in the nation, South Dakota’s workforce depends on temporary, H2B visa workers to fill important seasonal jobs. I thank Secretary Nielsen for her time and look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues to get results on much-needed reforms to our border security and immigration systems.” ###
01.18.2018	01.18.18 After Decades of Waiting, World War II Veteran to Receive Purple Heart At Rounds’ request, Sylvan Vigness of Flandreau to receive Purple Heart 73 years after U.S.S. Hinsdale attack in Pacific Theater WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Senate Armed Services Committees, today announced that Sylvan Vigness of Flandreau, S.D., will receive the Purple Heart Medal for his service in World War II. Vigness and his family have been seeking to obtain the Purple Heart for two decades, but were denied every time. “It is an honor to help Mr. Vigness obtain his Purple Heart Medal, especially knowing how many years he and his family spent seeking to obtain it,” said Rounds. “Mr. Vigness is a hero who bravely served our country during World War II, where he suffered an eye injury during a kamikaze attack onboard the U.S.S. Hinsdale on April 1, 1945. He is deserving of this honor, and my only wish is that he could have been recognized for his service and the injuries he sustained earlier. We are forever thankful to Mr. Vigness for the sacrifices he made to defend our country.” The Purple Heart Medal is awarded to members of the armed forces who are wounded by an instrument of war at the hands of the enemy. Mr. Vigness was injured by shrapnel onboard the U.S.S. Hinsdale in a kamikaze attack during the Battle of Iwo Jima on April 1, 1945. His family spent two decades working with previous congressional offices in an attempt to obtain the Purple Heart, but were denied time and again. The case was brought to Rounds’ attention last year, and he felt strongly that Mr. Vigness should be awarded the Purple Heart. After talking firsthand to the Secretary of the Navy, Rounds was able to help Mr. Vigness successfully obtain his Purple Heart Medal, 73 years after the attack on the U.S.S. Hinsdale. An award ceremony honoring Mr. Vigness and his family will be scheduled as soon as practicable, likely within the next week. We will share that information with you as soon as a date is scheduled. ###
01.18.2018	01.18.18 ICYMI: Rounds: Continuing Resolutions Hurt Military Readiness, Lead to Uncertainty WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined his colleague Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) on CNN to discuss their concerns with short-term continuing resolutions (CR) to fund the government. This week, Congress is considering another CR, the fourth in four months. “It has been 44 years since we actually had a budget act that was workable, “said Rounds in the interview. “In the last 44 years, only three cases have we actually gotten this budget and appropriations process done on time. That’s a terrible message to send…We’ve had four months with four separate continuing resolutions, with a threat of a shutdown each time. It’s not changing and there is no stability.” ###
01.16.2018	01.16.18 Reminder: Last Week for South Dakota Truckers, Stakeholders to Offer Comments on ELD Rules Department of Transportation accepting public comments until Friday, Jan. 19 WASHINGTON—South Dakota truckers and other citizens who may be negatively affected by Electronic Logging Device (ELD) rules have until Friday, Jan. 19, 2018, to voice their concerns via public comment period. Late last year, the Department of Transportation (DoT) announced a 90-day delay of its ELD rules for live load truckers, which were originally scheduled to take effect Dec. 18, 2017. DoT is accepting public comments regarding agricultural commodities HERE through Friday, Jan. 19, 2018. “The ELD rules could have significant, real-world implications for live load truckers and the agricultural economy,” said Rounds. “This new rule brings to light the hours-of-service challenges for truckers who transport agricultural commodities and have long wait times at grain elevators and livestock barns. I’m grateful DoT Secretary Elaine Chao has recognized the need to seek additional input from stakeholders and encourage South Dakotans to voice their concerns.” # # #
01.12.2018	01.12.18 Rounds Statement on Section 199A of Tax Code WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement regarding ongoing efforts to address concerns related to Section 199A of the tax code: “The inclusion of Section 199A in the tax law was always to maintain the status quo for the agricultural sector. It has come to our attention that some producers are concerned that the law, as written in the new tax code, gives an unfair advantage to cooperatives over independent operators. This was never the intent and I am pleased there is widespread support among producers and Congress to address this concern. We have been working with our colleagues and stakeholders from both sides on a legislative fix. Those conversations have been productive and we look forward to finding a solution in a timely manner.”
01.11.2018	01.11.18 Delegation Introduces Bill to Transfer Federal Land to Custer County, South Dakota WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today introduced Senate and House companion versions of the Custer County Airport Conveyance Act, legislation that would transfer approximately 66 acres of Black Hills National Forest System land to Custer County, South Dakota. The U.S. Forest Service (USFS) has agreed to sell this land to the Custer County Airport, giving it full ownership of all acres that the airport occupies. A portion of the Custer County Airport currently occupies USFS land under a longstanding USFS agreement. Both parties have agreed to the terms of the property sale and transfer that are specified in the legislation. “After consulting with Custer County Commissioners, the airport, and the U.S. Forest Service, we concur with the Forest Service and Custer County that this legislation is the quickest and most efficient means to transfer this land,” said Rounds, Thune and Noem. “We are pleased that all of the parties negotiated in good faith and arrived at this agreement, which would give Custer County Airport full ownership of all land on which the airport operates.” This land transfer is necessary so Custer County can make additional improvements to its airport. Custer County has agreed to pay the USFS the appraised value of the land and all costs associated with the conveyance. Click here for legislative text. ###
01.11.2018	01.11.18 Rounds Statement on VA Rule Change to Begin Reimbursing Veterans for Emergency Care WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today made a statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced it has revised its regulations related to payment or reimbursement to veterans who have had to seek emergency care at a non-VA facility. “After seven years of an improper rule being on the books and thousands of veterans being denied reimbursement by the VA, this announcement is a significant step in the right direction,” said Rounds. “The majority of the veterans impacted by this rule change are elderly veterans, many of whom live on a fixed income and have limited resources to pay their medical bills. These men and women have made incredible sacrifices for our country, and I’m glad the VA has taken action to fulfill its legal obligation to cover their emergency care costs. We will continue to review the revised rule to make certain the VA is acting in the best interest of our veterans.” This rule change complies with the Emergency Care Fairness Act (ECFA), which was enacted in 2010 and directs the VA to cover veterans with private health insurance when that insurance doesn’t cover the full amount of non-VA emergency care. Previously, the VA had not been paying these costs despite its legal obligation to do so, denying hundreds of thousands of veterans’ claims. The new rule directs the VA to pay claims submitted on or after April 8, 2016, which is the date that the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims reversed a Board of Veterans’ Appeals decision in Staab v. McDonald. Rounds has been working to get the VA to comply with its legal obligation to pay for these costs for over a year. During a June 2017 Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing, VA Secretary David Shulkin told Rounds of the VA’s decision to withdraw its appeal and begin writing rules to cover these costs. The rules released yesterday are a result of that announcement. More information on the revised regulation can be found here. ###
01.04.2018	01.04.18 Rounds Accepting Summer 2018 Internship Applications PIERRE– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for summer 2018. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is Feb. 15, 2018. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than Feb. 15, 2018. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Rebecca Herman at rebecca_herman@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Rebecca Herman at (605) 224-1450. ###
12.22.2017	12.22.17 Bill to Double Size of Black Hills Veterans Cemetery Passes Senate WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) issued the following statements after the Senate passed their bill, the Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act (S. 35), legislation that would facilitate a permanent land transfer of approximately 200 acres of Bureau of Land Management land to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery outside of Sturgis, South Dakota. A companion version, which was introduced by U.S. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), passed the House Representatives earlier this year. “It is important for South Dakota’s veterans to know that the Black Hills National Cemetery will have space for them for generations to come,” said Rounds. “I’m glad our legislation to expand the cemetery’s boundary passed the Senate and look forward to rectifying our bill with the House-passed version so we can get it to the president’s desk in a timely manner.” “I’m glad the Senate unanimously approved this commonsense legislation that will allow the Black Hills National Cemetery to continue being a place for military families to remember and honor loved ones who have served,” said Thune. “By expanding the cemetery’s boundary, we can ensure that our military heroes will have a place to rest in peace for generations to come. We still have some work ahead us, and I’m hopeful we’ll be able to get this bill to the president as soon as possible.” “I applaud the Senate for passing this legislation to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery,” said Enzi. “Since Wyoming is one of the few states that does not have a VA National Cemetery, it is important that surrounding states have the capacity to ensure an honorable resting place for Wyoming’s veterans for years to come. That is why it is critical that Black Hills National Cemetery can continue to serve the region for decades as a place for military families to honor their loved ones.” Under current law, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act limits transfers like this one to a lifespan of 20 years. The Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act would make this particular transfer permanent. ###
12.21.2017	12.21.17 Rounds Statement on CFPB Decision to Delay HMDA Enforcement WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today issued the following statement on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) announcement to delay enforcement of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act: “As the Senate sponsor of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, I am keenly aware of the burden that HMDA data reporting requirements pose for small banks and credit unions in South Dakota. Today’s decision to delay penalties for the collection of HMDA data will give the Senate enough time to consider the Senate Banking Committee’s economic growth legislation, which includes my provision that would provide a long-term fix for this problem. This will allow banks to focus on servicing consumers rather than on complying with unneeded federal reporting regulations. I thank Acting CFPB Director Mulvaney for his leadership on this issue and look forward to getting our economic growth legislation signed into law.” Today, the CFPB announced it will not require HMDA data resubmission unless errors are material, nor will the CFPB assess penalties with respect to errors for data collected in 2018 and reported in 2019. The Bureau also announced it intends to open a rulemaking to reconsider changes made to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act by the Dodd-Frank Act. Senator Rounds’ Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, S. 1310, provides an exemption from new HMDA data reporting requirements for small financial institutions that originate 500 closed-end mortgage loans or 500 open-end lines of credit. # # #
12.20.2017	12.20.17 Rounds Statement on Passage of Tax Reform Conference Report WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after the Senate voted to pass the tax reform conference committee report: “Our tax relief bill will create a healthy, more vibrant economy that we can pass onto our kids and grandkids,” said Rounds. “This legislation puts American businesses back on a level playing field with the rest of the world so we can once again be globally competitive. Businesses will be incentivized to remain here in the United States, which will keep good-paying jobs from going overseas.” “It will greatly improve the quality of life for South Dakota families, especially lower-and middle-income families who haven’t seen a pay raise in nearly a decade. We look forward to seeing it signed into law by the president before Christmas.” A conference committee is a group of Senate and House negotiators who are tasked with reconciling differences in legislation between the two chambers. Bill text and a summary can be found HERE. ###
12.20.2017	12.20.17 Rounds Encourages South Dakota Truckers, Stakeholders to Offer Comments on ELD Rules WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today encouraged South Dakota truckers and other citizens who may be negatively affected by Electronic Logging Device (ELD) rules to voice their concerns. Last month, the Department of Transportation announced a 90-day delay of its ELD rules for live load truckers, which were originally scheduled to take effect Dec. 18. DoT is now is accepting public comments regarding agricultural commodities HERE until Jan. 19, 2018. “The ELD rules could have significant, real-world implications for live load truckers and the agricultural economy,” said Rounds. “This new rule brings to light the hours-of-service challenges for truckers who transport agricultural commodities and have long wait times at grain elevators and livestock barns. I’m grateful DoT Secretary Elaine Chao has recognized the need to seek additional input from stakeholders and encourage South Dakotans to voice their concerns.” The intent of the delay is to give DoT officials more time to hear the concerns of truckers who transport live-loads and other agricultural products. The announcement came a month after Rounds joined a number of South Dakota truckers in Washington, D.C., to discuss these concerns with DoT officials.
12.12.2017	12.12.17 Rounds Statement on NDAA Being Signed into Law Includes 8 of Rounds’ provisions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued a statement after President Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2018 into law. The NDAA includes 8 provisions authored by Rounds. “The NDAA is one of the most important pieces of legislation that we pass each year,” said Rounds. “It authorizes funding for the Department of Defense (DOD) so our armed forces are able to successfully carry out their missions. The NDAA authorizes nearly $700 billion for defense programs, and specifies where funds should be spent once the defense appropriations bill is passed. I’m pleased that eight of my provisions were included in the NDAA this year.” Rounds’ provisions included in the NDAA: Requirement for a comprehensive plan for sharing depot-level maintenance best practices. Requirement for statutorily-mandated caregiver counseling for service members pending separation from the DOD. Requirement for expedited evaluation and treatment for prenatal surgery under the TRICARE program. Required report on what acquisition authorities afforded the armed services should also be afforded to U.S. Special Operations Command. Expanded role for the service chiefs in decisions regarding acquisition programs for new weapons. A resolution on the use of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program and DOD Information Technology Exchange Program to hire personnel with cyber skills and abilities for the DOD. Requirement for a report on progress made in implementing the Cyber Excepted Personnel System. Authority for military officers to opt-out of promotion board consideration. ###
12.08.2017	12.08.17 Rounds Opposes Continuing Resolution WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement after voting no on the Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government through December 22, 2017: “The federal government’s budget process hasn’t worked in more than four decades. I have been a vocal critic of the current system, which largely rubber-stamps federal spending with very little debate or discussion. This year, working within this broken system, we gave negotiators extra time to work out a compromise on spending. Now we are one day from their extended deadline and yet no closer to a deal than they were three months ago. So they are asking for more time to negotiate, with a new deadline just before the holidays, hoping it will add pressure for Members to accept conditions they may otherwise disagree with. This is not good policy. “A number of us have worked on proposals to modify our current budget ‘process’ – a term I use loosely – so that we can actually do the work we were sent here to do: make informed policy decisions and make certain the federal government is being a responsible steward of taxpayer dollars. Yet Congress continues this pattern of passing short-term, stopgap spending bills. “I cannot, in good conscience, lend my support to this continuing resolution that merely continues federal spending and whose lone policy change could actually end up hurting South Dakota families. If we are ever to get our spending under control, eliminate wasteful programs and provide much-needed stability for our military, we must reject the status quo. “This practice will not change until more of us send the message that we must either repair this broken system or we get our work done on time. The American people expect no less. “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am concerned about the impact continuing resolutions have on military readiness. Military leaders have repeatedly warned our committee of the dangers that these short-term, stopgap spending bills have on their ability to adequately train, equip and maintain the force. In particular, under continuing resolutions, the Defense Department is restricted from starting new programs which is deeply concerning in today’s rapidly-changing threat environment. An example is the mounting cyber threat to our armed forces and our civilian critical infrastructure. If we are to adequately recover readiness levels that were lost over the last eight years as well as modernize our armed forces in this increasingly dangerous and complex world, we must give them the funding stability and certainty that continuing resolutions fail to provide.” ###
12.07.2017	12.07.17 Rounds Joins Bipartisan Group of Senators in Letter Urging Extension of Secure Rural School Program Impacts Black Hills Area Schools WASHINGTON.— U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined a bipartisan group of 32 senators in sending a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), urging them to include a reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) Program in any end-of-year legislation. SRS supports public schools, public roads, forest health projects, emergency services and many other essential county services for more than 775 counties across the country. “The SRS program continues to be a critical safety-net for forest counties as we work to diversify rural economies, improve forest management and forest health, strengthen historic forest revenue sharing with local governments, and ensure that our forests provide a range of values such as clean water, jobs, and wood fiber for local economies,” the senators wrote. “In the interest of working together in a bipartisan way to support local rural communities, we ask that you include a reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools in any end-of-the-year legislation. We appreciate your assistance with this matter.” The SRS program expired on September 30, 2015, and it has not been reauthorized since. Forest counties and schools received their last authorized SRS payment in 2016. Without SRS, existing revenue-sharing payments are not sufficient to support critical services these counties must provide. Full text of the letter: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer: We write to strongly urge the inclusion of at least a two-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program, which enjoys tremendous bipartisan support, in any end-of-the-year legislation. On U.S. Forest Service land, the federal government has historically shared 25 percent of timber harvest revenues with counties to compensate for federal ownership. On certain land managed by the Department of Interior, the Bureau of Land Management shares 50 percent of the revenue from federal timber sales with counties. Due to declining timber harvests, a critical source of funding for rural counties, sometimes referred to as “forest counties,” has seen significant decreases, often decimating impacted county budgets. In 2000, Congress passed SRS with broad bipartisan support as a fiscal solution to help fund essential services resulting from the reduced revenue-sharing receipts. Since then, SRS has been a critical lifeline for over 775 counties in over 40 states across the country by helping fund more than 4,400 schools, road maintenance, law enforcement, and search and rescue operations. However, SRS authorization lapsed last year and rural counties are now back to simply receiving the timber revenue-sharing receipts. These receipts are up to 80 percent less than what forest counties received under SRS. We are now witnessing firsthand the hardships rural counties face as a result of SRS authorization lapsing. Without the certainty of SRS payments, schools, libraries, and jails are closing. Schools that remain open will see a reduction of teachers. Roads go unpaved and become unsafe. Mental and physical health services are scaled back or even ended. Fewer and fewer law enforcement officers are forced to patrol larger and larger areas. The SRS program continues to be a critical safety-net for forest counties as we work to diversify rural economies, improve forest management and forest health, strengthen historic forest revenue sharing with local governments, and ensure that our forests provide a range of values such as clean water, jobs, and wood fiber for local economies. In the interest of working together in a bipartisan way to support local rural communities, we ask that you include a reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools in any end-of-the-year legislation. We appreciate your assistance with this matter. Sincerely, ###
12.06.2017	12.06.17 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on Natural Disaster Clean Ups WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered his opening statement at a hearing entitled “Challenges Facing Superfund and Waste Cleanup Efforts Following Natural Disasters.” “Today this subcommittee will conduct a review of the response, remediation and recovery challenges faced by states and public officials tasked with securing superfund sites and managing waste debris in the aftermath of these natural disasters,” said Rounds in his opening remarks. “Our goal today is to conduct oversight on the agency coordination among federal, state, and local officials following these destructive events. We will also hear about the preparations that were made to secure superfund sites in advance of these natural disasters occurring, and hear suggestions on how the planning and preparation for natural disasters can be improved.” Rounds’ remarks as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing entitled “Challenges Facing Superfund and Waste Cleanup Efforts Following Natural Disasters.” In the past four months, three major hurricanes brought record-setting flooding and rainfall in Texas, the Gulf Region, and the Caribbean. They also threatened the dozens of contaminated superfund sites that were located in their path. Further, in October, deadly wildfires scorched over 245,000 acres in California. These wildfires left an estimated $85 billion dollars of economic damage in their wake. This hearing is especially appropriate today as California again finds itself facing wildfires in Southern California. These ongoing fires have forced tens of thousands of people to evacuate their homes. Natural disasters such as these not only cause loss of life, but also billions of dollars in damage to the economy, infrastructure, and homes. They also have the potential to expose communities and the environment to hazardous chemicals stemming from contaminated superfund sites that could be damaged by the storm. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, also known as CERCLA, was created to manage hazardous substances and to respond to environmental emergencies, spills, and natural disasters. As the lead agency, the EPA coordinates cleanups, hazardous waste management, and emergency responses with various other federal agencies, such as FEMA and the U.S. Army Corps, as well as state and local officials. Throughout Hurricane Harvey, the EPA worked with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality to secure dozens of superfund sites in the Houston area and monitor for potential leaks from the sites. Following the hurricane, the EPA used aerial imaging to conduct assessments of these sites but state and federal officials faced significant challenges in accessing these sites for testing. Of the thirteen sites the EPA identified as being possibly damaged, only two were immediately accessible for sampling. The remaining eleven were inaccessible due to flood waters, requiring officials to wait until the waters receded before the sites could be evaluated. Shortly after Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma threatened 22 current or former National Priority List sites within Florida’s southernmost 100 miles. In anticipation of the hurricane, technical staff in the EPA Region 4 office reviewed sites to secure any potential vulnerabilities and many of these sites remained secure after Irma made landfall. Two weeks later, as Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands as a category 4 storm, nineteen superfund sites were at risk. Of these, five sites in Puerto Rico were deemed especially hazardous to human health and the environment. Today, nearly two and a half months after Hurricane Maria made landfall, the relief and remediation effort in Puerto Rico is ongoing. In addition to these deadly hurricanes, throughout the month of October, California experienced some of the deadliest wildfires in its history. These wildfires necessitated a federal cleanup effort that involved hundreds of EPA staff and a weeks-long effort to remove thousands of hazardous waste products, largely consisting of household chemical products, from the area. Today this subcommittee will conduct a review of the response, remediation and recovery challenges faced by states and public officials tasked with securing superfund sites and managing waste debris in the aftermath of these natural disasters. Our goal today is to conduct oversight on the agency coordination among federal, state, and local officials following these destructive events. We will also hear about the preparations that were made to secure superfund sites in advance of these natural disasters occurring, and hear suggestions on how the planning and preparation for natural disasters can be improved. In general, CERCLA provides substantial discretion to the EPA to expand requirements for disaster planning and post-disaster response. But while CERCLA does provide the EPA with flexibility in disaster planning and remedial actions, there are few statutory requirements for proactive disaster planning and response. I am hopeful that today’s hearing will provide suggestions for improvement to disaster planning and post-disaster response so we can make certain that in the event of a natural disaster, these sites remain secure and pose no threat to the surrounding communities and environment. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
12.04.2017	12.04.17 Rounds Announces Nominations to U.S. Service Academies Nominated 23 South Dakota Students WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he has nominated 23 South Dakota students to our nation’s service academies for the 2018-2019 school year. “It is an honor to nominate South Dakota’s best and brightest students to our nation’s service academies each year,” said Rounds. “This year, I was fortunate to receive nomination applications from an outstanding group of students. Each of the students I nominated possesses the leadership qualities and academic excellence to succeed at our nation’s service academies. I wish them all the best.” Each year, members of Congress are allowed to nominate students from their state to the U.S. service academies. Each academy then gives full and fair consideration to these nominations when selecting enrollees. More information about the academy application process can be found here. Rounds’ principal nominees to the service academies, who are guaranteed admission if they meet all of the requirements of the academy to which they are nominated include: Caleb Carnes of Beresford to the U.S. Air Force Academy Jennifer Chatwell of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Naval Academy Cain Lounsbery of Brookings to the U.S. Military Academy Competitive nominee with a letter of assurance of acceptance: Silas Diaz of Rapid City to the U.S. Naval Academy Rounds competitive nominees to the service academies: Ryan Berry of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy Alexander Crowson of Brussels, Belgium (South Dakota resident) to the U.S. Military Academy Grady Dehler of Rapid City to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Isaac Doten of Sturgis to the U.S. Naval Academy Tyler Eberle of Rapid City to the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy Ryan Habeck of Ft. Pierre to the U.S. Air Force Academy Tigh Hight of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy Tessa Kimbler of Aberdeen to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Meredith Lammers of Dakota Dunes to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy Ryan Maertz of Watertown, SD to the U.S. Air Force Academy Alexander Miller of Brandon, SD to the Merchant Marine Academy Jayden Pittman of Baltic to the U.S. Military Academy Alexia Scott of Aberdeen to the U.S. Air Force Academy Madison Skinner of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Mark Springman of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy Arianna Stangohr of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Brock Walker of Sioux Falls to the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy Justice West of Piedmont to the U.S. Naval Academy Brighem Williams of Lead to the U.S. Naval Academy Competitive nominations are submitted to the academies, along with nominees from other states, and selected by the academy on a limited, competitive basis. ###
12.01.2017	12.01.17 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on the Senate passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act overhauls our tax code in a manner that will allow businesses to flourish again and families to keep more of their hard-earned dollars. It will provide more jobs, bigger paychecks and a fairer tax system, especially to lower- and middle-income Americans who haven’t seen a pay raise in nearly a decade. Additionally, businesses will have the stability they need to confidently grow their companies, hire more workers, increase wages and reinvest back into the economy. This will lead to a healthier, more prosperous America that we can be proud to pass on to our kids and grandkids.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act must now be reconciled with the House-passed version, where final differences will be worked out. ###
11.30.2017	11.30.17 Rounds' RESPECT Act Passes Senate Bill Repeals a Number of Outdated Statutes that are Still Part of Current Law Related to Native Americans WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on the Senate’s unanimous passage of his Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions Encouraging Conciliation with Tribes (RESPECT) Act. “Passing the RESPECT Act out of the Senate is the first step toward getting it signed into law,” said Rounds. “Our legislation will eliminate a number of outdated, offensive laws against Native American citizens in the United States that are still on the books today. Though we can’t rewrite the past, we can work toward mending relations and furthering respect for future generations. The RESPECT Act is one way to show healing, understanding and progress.” Rounds reintroduced the RESPECT Act this year, and it passed out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee unanimously. The RESPECT Act is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association and is cosponsored by Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.). ###
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Rounds Supports Bipartisan Agreement on Economic Growth Legislation Bill Includes Six of Rounds’ Provisions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, is an original cosponsor of a bipartisan proposal released by the committee this week to improve our nation’s financial regulatory framework and promote a healthy economy. “In South Dakota, our banks and credit unions play a vital role in helping businesses thrive,” said Rounds. “They help families fulfill their dreams of homeownership, buying a new car or saving for the future. Relieving our financial institutions from unnecessary regulatory burdens will increase credit access for South Dakotans across the state. Our proposal would begin the process of rolling back some of Dodd-Frank’s ‘one-size-fits-all’ regulations that are hurting our financial institutions and would allow them to once again be able to grow and support their communities.” The proposal includes six provisions that Rounds has introduced: The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, which provides small banks and credit unions with data reporting relief; Relief from Dodd-Frank capital rules that allows banks to count high-quality municipal bonds toward capital requirements, providing help to both banks and local governments that issue debt; Relief from the supplemental leverage ratio (SLR) for custody banks that service organizations like mutual funds and state and local pension plans; Provisions in the Community Bank Access to Capital Act that would: Free small banks from having to complete arduous and expensive tests mandated by Dodd-Frank; Make it easier for banks with less than $3 billion in assets to raise capital and grow; The Protecting Veterans Credit Act, which protects the credit of veterans who are awaiting delayed payments from the VA Choice program; and Rural appraisal relief for cases when borrowers apply for a loan less than $400,000 and have trouble finding a qualified appraiser. In addition to Rounds, the bipartisan agreement is co-sponsored by Sens. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), John Kennedy (R-La.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Angus King (I-Maine), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) and Gary Peters (D-Mich.). ###
11.16.2017	11.16.17 Rounds Bill to Help Address Veterans’ Opioid Abuse Passes Senate The VA Prescription Data Accountability Act would expand VA’s authority to share prescription drug data with state monitoring programs WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today praised the Senate’s passage of the bipartisan VA Prescription Data Accountability Act, which he introduced with Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) earlier this year. The bill now heads to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “Opioid abuse is widespread throughout the United States,” said Rounds. “Sadly, many of our veterans suffer from addiction to prescription painkillers prescribed to them by doctors to treat pain or injuries stemming from their service to our country. Our bill updates current law to give the VA authority to securely share patient data with state prescription drug monitoring programs. These are crucial systems that reinforce safe prescribing practices to cut down on opioid abuse and protect our veterans. I am pleased to see this bill head to the president’s desk to be signed into law.” The bill would clarify current law to allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to share data with state Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) for patients who are prescribed opioids by VA providers, including both veterans and their dependents. This legislation, for example, would enable the VA to share data with Indiana’s prescription drug monitoring program, INSPECT. VA is currently only sharing prescription data on veterans, not their dependents or others treated by VA providers, due to technical issues related to the VA’s health records system. As a result, a significant amount of VA prescription data is not being shared with the state’s prescription drug monitoring program. The VA Prescription Data Accountability Act is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Association of the United States Navy. The Congressional Budget Office has scored the House companion as having no added cost to taxpayers. ###
11.14.2017	11.14.17 Delegation Meets With Indian Health Service Director Nominee Delegation expresses concern about Great Plains IHS facilities, necessary steps for improvement U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today met with Robert Weaver, the president’s nominee to be director of Indian Health Service (IHS). Weaver, who was nominated for the position in October, has nearly two decades of experience in hospital, mental health administration, and entrepreneurship. Weaver is a member of the Quapaw Tribe of Oklahoma and is currently a consultative representative to U.S. Government Relations for his tribe in the area of health care. “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with Mr. Weaver today,” said Rounds. “For years, Indian Health Service has failed to fulfill its trust and treaty obligation to provide adequate health care to tribal members. The quality of care at IHS facilities in the Great Plains Region is simply unacceptable. During our meeting, we had the chance to talk about my proposed legislation to require an assessment of the financial, administrative and quality problems at the agency, and I was pleased that he agrees on the necessity of such an assessment. He also agreed on the importance of consultation with tribal leaders. If confirmed, I look forward to working with him and tribal leaders to identify and fix the many problems at IHS.” ###
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Rounds Statement on Senate Tax Reform Proposal WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on tax reform proposal introduced by the Senate Committee on Finance. “The release of the Senate’s tax reform proposal today is another step toward delivering relief to American families and small businesses,” said Rounds. “We are committed to a tax reform plan that will provide more jobs, bigger paychecks and a fairer tax system for South Dakotans. I look forward to reading the bill in its entirety and working with my colleagues in the Senate to advance legislation that will boost our economy and put more money in American workers’ pockets.” ###
11.08.2017	11.08.17 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement on his IHS Assessment Bill WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke in support of his legislation, S. 465, the Independent Outside Audit of the Indian Health Service Act of 2017, during a Senate Committee on Indian Affairs hearing. Since taking office in 2015, Rounds and his staff have analyzed the IHS and its shortcomings, concluding there are three primary areas of concern: there is no funding allocation strategy for the 12 IHS regions, there is no standard of quality measurement and there is high turnover of staff resulting in low accountability amongst management. Rounds’ assessment legislation is the first step toward setting us on a path to address the agency’s longstanding failures. “For years, tribal members in my home state of South Dakota have dealt with unimaginable horrors in dealing with IHS facilities,” said Rounds in his opening remarks. “Tribal members are suffering and even dying due to inadequate and disgraceful care. IHS will only continue to fail unless we take a close look into the operations, funding, quality of care, and management at IHS. I believe that a comprehensive assessment of IHS is a necessary first step toward making calculated and systematic changes at IHS.” Rounds’ remarks as prepared for delivery: Good afternoon, I first want to start off by thanking Chairman Hoeven, Vice-Chairman Udall and the members of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs for their dedicated service to the Native American communities. Today, I am introducing my bill to provide for a comprehensive assessment of the Indian Health Service, S.465. As you know, the IHS is the agency responsible for providing health care for American Indians and Alaska Natives as required by federal treaty agreement. For years, tribal members in my home state of South Dakota have dealt with unimaginable horrors in dealing with IHS facilities. Upon taking office in 2015, my staff and I have spent significant time trying to learn more about these problems. In our research, we found four primary areas of concern: there is no funding allocation strategy for the 12 IHS regions, there is no standard of quality measurement, there is high turnover of staff resulting in low accountability amongst management and there is no consultation with tribes. The IHS serves approximately 2.2 million Native Americans, who are members of 567 federally recognized tribes. For fiscal year 2017, IHS was appropriated just under $5 billion dollars in discretionary funding and $147 million dollars in mandatory funding from the Special Diabetes Program. This does not include third-party collections of approximately $1.1 billion dollars. Despite a large user population and an annual appropriation of $5 billion, IHS does NOT have a funding formula. Regional allocations are not based upon the number of people who received healthcare through IHS, regional user population growth or types of services offered. While many believe that IHS is underfunded, from my standpoint, investing more taxpayer money into a dysfunctional system will only compound the problem. IHS lacks an efficient system and accountability; this needs to be addressed before we consider funding. Then, I agree it will be time to talk about adequate funding. Furthermore, there are no consistent qualitative measurements. The most recent qualitative measurements are from 2008 – nearly a decade old – so it’s unclear if IHS management has a sense of which regions are successful or failing. IHS divides itself into 12 service areas in the United States. IHS’s Great Plains Area, which serves South Dakota tribal members, has the worst health care disparities of all IHS regions, including: Lowest life expectancy, Highest diabetes death rate, 5 times the U.S. average, Highest TB death rate, and Highest overall age adjusted death rate. To give you an idea of some of the things we are seeing and hearing in our area: The Wall Street Journal reported in June 2017, “At the Indian Health Service hospital in Pine Ridge, South Dakota, a 57-year-old man was sent home with a bronchitis diagnosis—only to die five hours later of heart failure.” When a patient at the federal agency’s Winnebago, Nebraska, facility stopped breathing, nurses responding to the “code blue” found the emergency supply cart was empty, and the man died. In Sisseton, South Dakota, a high school prom queen was coughing up blood. An IHS doctor gave her cough syrup and antianxiety medication; within days she died of a blood clot in her lung. And just this August, IHS officials announced that patients who have recently received care at the podiatry clinic in the Winnebago IHS Hospital may have been exposed to HIV and hepatitis. Because there are not standard of quality expectations and a methodology to measure quality; these facilities are failing very basic quality performances that our people deserve. In fact, the quality problems have become so pervasive, that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, accreditation of several IHS facilities are in jeopardy. Throughout the past year-and-a-half, the Rosebud and Pine Ridge Hospitals in the Great Plains Region have been operating under a Systems Improvement Agreement with CMS trying to regain their accreditation status. Thankfully, the Systems Improvement Agreement at Rosebud was completed on September 1st of this year. However, our office was made aware of multiple timeline extensions in Pine Ridge because these IHS direct-care facilities continued to fail CMS surveys. Just last Friday, the Pine Ridge IHS Hospital was deemed not in compliance with CMS’s conditions of participation for emergency services. By issuing a final notification for the Pine Ridge IHS Hospital, the facility is in immediate jeopardy status and hospital’s provider agreement will be terminated at the end of next week. Termination means that IHS can no longer bill Medicare for services, impacting Medicaid funding as well. Further, future third-party revenue available to IHS to fund services, maintenance projects and other necessary costs will likely be reduced. Finally, there is high turnover throughout the entire IHS organization. For example, within my home state’s Great Plains Region, we’ve had 5 different area directors in the last 21 months. That’s an average tenure in this important management position of roughly 4 months. And as you may know, nationally there has not been a permanent director leading IHS since February of 2015. Tribal members are suffering and even dying due to inadequate and disgraceful care. IHS will only continue to fail unless we take a close look into the operations, funding, quality of care, and management at IHS. I believe that a comprehensive assessment of IHS is a necessary first step toward making calculated and systematic changes at IHS. S. 465 would accomplish this goal and set us on a path to address the long standing failures of IHS. My legislation would require the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to conduct an assessment of IHS’s health care delivery systems and financial management processes only at direct-care facilities. Let me be clear, this assessment is not proposed for tribes with 638 Agreements in place; only direct IHS facilities. This assessment I am proposing is a proven model for identifying potential reforms. We all remember the problems in 2014 in Veterans Administration health care. To address this issue Congress passed legislation calling for the Secretary of the VA to conduct an overall and systematic assessment of VA healthcare. The integrated report was completed within the mandated timeframe of less than a year, and was officially submitted to the Secretary of the VA in September 2015. The assessment provided feedback and recommended changes that could lead to improvement in health outcomes. The same should be done for the Indian Health Service. Thank you. ###
11.01.2017	11.01.17 Rounds Urges UN Ambassador to Address North Korea Cyberattacks WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, today joined his colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations (UN) Nikki Haley, urging her to work with members of the UN Security Council to pass a resolution to more aggressively deter and punish North Korea’s cyberattacks. While the UN has repeatedly condemned North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, the country’s regime continues to reap substantial revenue from cyberattacks around the world. This letter comes ahead of President Trump’s visit to Asia later this week. “Recent estimates indicate that North Korea’s cyberattacks provide the North Korean government with as much as $1 billion per year – a staggering figure equivalent to one-third of the country’s exports,” wrote the Senators. “North Korea’s ransomware attacks and cyber-attacks on banks around the world are producing funding streams that we must cut off immediately. Tough rhetoric must be backed up by practical measures that make it clear to North Korea that their behavior cannot continue…we must do more to confront those countries who enable North Korea and incentivize them to crack down on North Korean hackers and prevent access to their networks.” In addition to Rounds, the letter was signed by Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). Full text of the letter: Dear Ambassador Haley: We write to urge you to continue expanding efforts to hold North Korea accountable with the international community through the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). As a permanent member of the UNSC, the United States plays a leading role in developing and passing increasingly stronger resolutions to restrict North Korea’s exports in an effort to exact international economic pressure on this rogue regime for its nuclear ambitions. While these resolutions continue to make it more difficult for North Korea to fund its nuclear program, we must also consider lucrative funding streams beyond its exports, including revenue it reaps from cyberattacks. Of the eight UNSC resolutions related to North Korea passed since 2006, none have specifically addressed its use of cyberattacks that wreak international havoc. As such, we urge you to work with members of the UNSC to pass a resolution to more aggressively deter and punish North Korea’s cyberattacks in order to cut off this illicit funding stream. Recent estimates indicate that North Korea’s cyberattacks provide the North Korean government with as much as $1 billion per year – a staggering figure equivalent to one-third of the country’s exports. North Korea’s ransomware attacks and cyberattacks on banks around the world are producing funding streams that we must cut off immediately. Tough rhetoric must be backed up by practical measures that make it clear to North Korea that their behavior cannot continue. North Korean hackers often operate from abroad, notably in China as they rely on its internet structure. As such, we must do more to confront those countries who enable North Korea and incentivize them to crack down on North Korean hackers and prevent access to their networks. As the targets of these attacks and the impacts of these heists reverberate around the world, the international community must work together to combat them. For instance, last year the Lazarus Group, a North Korean-linked cybercrime ring, stole $81 million from a Bangladesh Central Bank account at the New York Federal Reserve, which would have been $1 billion except for a spelling error. They have been tied to the WannaCry attack earlier this year that impacted over 200,000 victims in 150 countries, as well as the Sony attack in 2014. Last month they were also linked to a $60 million theft from a Taiwanese bank. Without stronger condemnation and efforts to limit North Korea’s cyber abilities, these attacks will continue unabated. As a world leader, the United States must do everything in its power to choke off any flow of funding to North Korea to prevent it from advancing its nuclear weapons program. As the international community has begun to unite its position on this issue, we urge you to use this opportunity to identify and address cyber concerns in an effort to more aggressively pursue North Korea’s finances. We look forward to working with you on this important national security issue. ###
10.31.2017	10.31.17 Rounds Statement on EPA Advisory Committee Directive WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today joined Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt in announcing a directive to improve the independence, transparency and diversity on EPA federal advisory committees. “Sound, reliable science is vital to helping the EPA make important policy decisions that impact the health of American families and their livelihoods,” said Rounds. “The work conducted by scientists at the EPA should be able to stand the test of time, not be subject to partisan politics. Today’s directive is a significant step toward making certain EPA scientific advisory committees are comprised of independent and diverse individuals who can provide EPA with a variety of perspectives on the best way to accomplish its mission. It was an honor to attend today’s announcement and I thank Administrator Pruitt for his continued commitment to restoring order at the EPA.” Pruitt’s directive will strengthen advisory committee member independence, increase state and local government participation, and enhance geographic diversity. Key advisory committees at the EPA include the Science Advisory Board, the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee and the Board of Scientific Counselors.
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Rounds Statement on Alexander/Murray Legislation Is one of 24 Senators - 12 Republican and 12 Democrat - to Cosponsor Bipartisan Bill; Similar Provision had Support from 49 of 52 GOP Senators WASHINGTON— Following months of discussions between U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Angus King (I-Maine), Rounds made the following statement on the bipartisan Alexander/Murray legislation, which will give states additional flexibility to tailor their health insurance market to fit their individual needs. It also temporarily authorizes Cost Sharing Reduction (CSR) payments, which will protect consumers from even higher premiums and help stabilize the market in the near-term. “Obamacare is a rapidly sinking ship,” said Rounds. “Our agreement will give us time to stabilize the market and provide meaningful flexibility and relief to states while we continue our efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare with a competitive, market-based health care system that is actually affordable. In the meantime, we protect low-income families from even higher premiums by temporarily continuing the CSR payments for two years. Meanwhile, we are making meaningful, permanent reforms to the 1332 waiver process, which will provide much-needed relief to states and allow them to tailor their health insurance markets to fit their individual needs. Empowering the states with new opportunities to innovate and strengthen their health insurance market is a significant step in the right direction.” CSR payments are essentially a government subsidy for low-income individuals. Last week, President Trump announced the administration would stop making the monthly CSR payments, citing a May 2016 federal court ruling which found the payments were unconstitutional because Congress had not appropriated money for this purpose. This legislation would provide permanent, significant reforms to Obamacare’s ‘1332 waivers.’ Due to House and Senate rules, the 1332 waiver changes outlined in the Alexander/Murray legislation are not eligible to be included in “budget reconciliation” legislation, which is the vehicle being used to repeal and replace Obamacare by congressional Republicans. Those efforts will continue. Alexander/Murray also modifies the affordability guardrails in a way that maintains patient protections but allows states to innovate and develop cheaper ways to cover more Americans. It would also legally authorize the administration to temporarily continue CSR payments for two years, similar to the provisions of the Better Care Reconciliation Act, in which 49 GOP members of the U.S. Senate supported earlier this year. Reforms to the 1332 Waiver Process Would: Amend the law to provide meaningful flexibility for health plan designs; Streamline the waiver approval process by letting governors apply for waivers without requiring state legislatures to pass an authorization law; Allow for automatic approval of waivers if a state’s application is substantially similar to one already approved by federal authorities; Cut the approval time at Health and Human Services (HHS) in half; Provide additional fast-tracking opportunities for waivers in emergency circumstances; and Allow for waivers to last longer than under current law (six years v. five years today). # # #
10.18.2017	10.18.17 Rounds Accepting Spring 2018 Internship Applications Deadline Extended to Nov. 1 WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for spring 2018. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is Nov. 1, 2017. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than Nov. 1, 2017. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Rebecca Herman at rebecca_herman@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Rebecca Herman at (605) 224-1450. ###
10.17.2017	10.17.17 Rounds, Blunt Introduce Bill to Allow Community Banks to Better Serve Rural Areas WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, and U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) introduced legislation to support and strengthen lending in local communities. The Community Bank Access to Capital Act of 2017 would roll back burdensome financial regulations to make it easier for community banks to serve their customers, who often reside in rural areas with fewer available lending options. “Community banks are a vital resource for small businesses and families in rural areas like South Dakota,” said Rounds. “Relieving community banks from unnecessary regulatory burdens will increase credit access for South Dakota families across the state. Our legislation would roll back some of the ‘one-size-fits-all’ federal regulations so community banks are once again able to grow and support their communities.” “Missouri’s community banks play a critical role in keeping our state’s small businesses thriving,” said Blunt. “This bill will rein in excessive red tape and allow these banks to expand access to credit for Missouri families and local business owners. I urge all of my colleagues to support this measure and help strengthen economic growth in our small and rural communities.” The Community Bank Access to Capital Act of 2017 would: exempt community banks with $50 billion or less in assets from the Basel III capital rules; exempt community banks with less than $1 billion in assets from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal control attestation requirements; broaden the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation D rule to make it easier for community banks to raise capital; and make it easier for small banks to raise capital that can be used to help finance expansions. A significant portion of this legislation was introduced by Rounds and Blunt during the previous session of Congress. It is supported by the Independent Community Bankers Association and the Independent Community Bankers of South Dakota. ###
10.16.2017	10.16.17 Rounds Statement on EPA Decision to End “Sue & Settle” Practices WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today made the following statement on the decision of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to end the controversial “sue and settle” practices at the EPA. “During the previous administration, ‘sue and settle’ practices resulted in new environmental regulations drafted by special interest groups behind closed doors,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased with EPA Administrator Pruitt’s decision to end this practice and shed more transparency on the processes that federal agencies use to draft new regulations.” Last Congress, Rounds held a subcommittee hearing on EPA’s “sue and settle” practices. In that hearing, he found that the “sue and settle” process utilized by special interest groups leads to a rushed and reckless rulemaking process that does not follow the proper regulatory process or allow for adequate public participation. He has also introduced an amendment to end “sue and settle” practices. Both the Clean Air Act and the Endangered Species Act contain clauses that allow citizens to file citizen suits against a regulatory agency to prompt the agency’s compliance with federal statutes. Often, these citizen suits are used to perpetuate the “sue and settle” process, which overwhelms regulatory agencies and results in rushed settlement agreements and consent decrees requiring agencies to promulgate major regulations behind closed doors within an arbitrarily imposed timeline. ###
10.06.2017	10.06.17 Rounds Lists Priorities for Upcoming Farm Bill After Close Consultation with Producers Across the State, Sends letter of South Dakota Priorities to Senate Ag Committee Leaders WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) sent a letter to Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Ranking Member Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), outlining a list of priorities for the upcoming farm bill. After closely consulting with South Dakota farmers and ranchers, these priorities emphasize the need to provide producers with the tools necessary to weather tough economic conditions and unforeseen emergencies that can hinder their operations. “I appreciate the bipartisan discussions you have been conducting with farmers and ranchers across the country as you work to determine necessary policy changes that will empower our agriculture sector to continue to lead the world in food and fuel production,” Rounds wrote to the Chairman and Ranking Member. “With your leadership, over the next year we have a unique opportunity to improve existing farm programs and provide much-needed stability to farmers and ranchers across the country.” Rounds lists the following priorities in his letter: Adequately support and maintain the federal crop insurance program. With 290 million acres insured nationwide, 17 million acres in South Dakota, crop insurance is the main tool for farmers to protect themselves and their livelihoods. Allow a re-enrollment option for producers utilizing commodity programs under Title I, specifically Price-Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agricultural Risk Coverage (ARC). Increase the cap for Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres to at least 30 million, compared to 24 million by fiscal year 2018. During the time period covered by the proposed 2018 farm bill, South Dakota is expected to lose 57 percent of its existing CRP acres. By increasing the cap and targeting marginal production acres, we have the ability to lock in land for conservation for 10 years at 2018 land values while saving money for the federal crop insurance program by getting the more marginal acres out of production. Establish a foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) vaccination bank to combat economic, food and national security concerns. According to a recent study by Iowa State University economists, an outbreak of FMD could cost potentially as much as $197 billion over 10 years if producers were not able to combat the disease with vaccines. Increase the individual cap for USDA’s Farm Service Agency’s (FSA) guaranteed farm ownership loans and farm operating loans. Update the authorization for FSA’s direct loan programs and increase total authorization for FSA’s guaranteed loan programs. This would mirror legislation I introduced, the FSA Loan Guarantee Enhancement Act. ### Related Files Rounds to Roberts-Stabenow RE top priorities for the farm bill.pdf
10.05.2017	10.05.17 Rounds Introduces FSA Loan Guarantee Enhancement Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced legislation to enhance the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) farm loan programs. The Farm Service Agency (FSA) Loan Guarantee Enhancement Act would assist lenders in supporting producers during times of economic downturn within the ag sector. “The FSA Loan Guarantee program provides financial assistance to farmers and ranchers who want to expand and improve their operations,” said Rounds. “Increasing both the individual cap for these loans and the total amount of money available for lending will allow a greater number of producers to utilize the program. Farming and ranching has become increasingly costly. The FSA Loan Guarantee Enhancement Act would more accurately reflect inflation and the increasing costs of agriculture production today, and make sure lenders have the flexibility to allow farmers and ranchers to weather times of economic downturn.” Specifically, Rounds’ legislation would: raise USDA guaranteed ownership and operating loan guarantee from $1.4 million to $3 million, increase authorized private-sector loan offerings for guaranteed operating and ownership loans from $3 billion to $8 billion and raises the authorization for direct loans up to $3 billion, to match current funding levels. provide spending assurance, rather than have these programs depend on annual appropriations. Since it was established in 1979, the authorization amounts and funding for FSA loans have never been increased. The FSA Loan Guarantee Enhancement Act would increase and update the authorization of resources available for these loans for the first time in nearly 40 years. It is supported by the Independent Community Bankers Association (ICBA), SD ICBA, the American Bankers Association and the Farm Credit Council. # # #
10.04.2017	10.04.17 Rounds: Fairer, Lower, Simpler Tax Code Will Unleash the Full Potential of the American Economy Video Available WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered remarks on the Senate floor calling for a simpler, lower, fairer tax code that will improve our economy, create new jobs and increase wages for the American people. “It is our intention to deliver policies that will jolt our economy, allow hard-working families to keep more of their paychecks and provide financial opportunities to lower and middle-class families,” said Rounds on the Senate floor. “I am encouraged by the ongoing discussions and progress being made to alleviate the tax burden on American businesses and hardworking families, and I will continue to work with anyone serious about lowering taxes and reforming the code to provide a much-needed jolt to our sluggish economy.” Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today regarding our country’s need for tax reform. Reforming our tax code remains a top priority for myself, many of my colleagues and the president. We are committed to delivering tax reform that will provide more jobs, bigger paychecks and a fairer tax system to the American people. Over the eight years of the previous administration, economic growth averaged 1.5 percent annually, about half the post-World War II average. This anemic growth has led to stagnant wages, and according to the Joint Economic Committee, has cost families an average of $8,600 in income annually. It’s no wonder half of Americans say they are living paycheck-to-paycheck. This is unacceptable. Even more concerning, the Congressional Budget Office is projecting economic growth to remain under 2 percent over the next 10 years if we do not act. We cannot let that happen. It is our intention to deliver policies that will jolt our economy, allow hard-working families to keep more of their paychecks and provide financial opportunities to lower and middle-class families. And tax reform is a vital component of this. Our current, overly-complicated tax code, is more than 74,000 pages in length and takes Americans more than 8.1 billion hours each year to file their taxes. A fairer, simpler tax code will grow the economy, increase wages for American families, improve American competitiveness overseas and provide much-needed certainty for our business community. It has been more than 30 years since our tax code was last reformed. Since that time, other countries have lowered their rates to become more competitive, while our tax code has barely even changed. The average corporate tax rate in the U.S. today is 39 percent, compared to 25 percent by our foreign competitors. This puts American businesses at a disadvantage right out of the gate. We must reform the tax rate to one that incentivizes businesses to remain here in America and keep good-paying jobs from going overseas. Doing so will unleash the full potential of the American economy. Now while we all want a simpler, fairer tax code and comprehensive overhaul, I have also been working on legislation that would simply reduce taxes for all Americans. One thing we can all agree on is that taxes are too high and tax rates – no matter who you are – should be lowered. Lowering the tax rate is one step we can take that will provide direct, immediate relief to hardworking families and jolt our economy. I introduced a proposal in May that would lower the rate in each tax bracket - individual, corporate and capital gains - by two points. This approach would put more money in the pockets of every single American family – money that they can use to help them buy a car, take a vacation, pay off bills or use how they see fit – instead of the American government. In South Dakota, this would mean a 16 percent tax cut for the average family of four making $68,000 a year. But no matter what the income level, everyone will see a cut. Allowing all American families to keep more of their hard-earned dollars by taking it out of the hands of Washington and back into their own pocketbooks will result in a more prosperous American economy. And when our economy is healthy, every American will feel the positive effects. I am encouraged by the ongoing discussions and progress being made to alleviate the tax burden on American businesses and hardworking families, and I will continue to work with anyone serious about lowering taxes and reforming the code to provide a much-needed jolt to our sluggish economy. The American people deserve better than the stagnant growth and uncertainty still lingering from the previous administration. Thank you Mr. President, I yield the floor. ###
09.28.2017	09.28.17 Rounds, Colleagues Submit Comments in Support of Proposed Withdrawal of the WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), along with 10 of his colleagues, sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt and Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army Douglas Lamont in support of the proposed withdrawal of the 2015 “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule. The letter applauds Administrator Pruitt’s efforts to remove the problematic rule and highlights the need for its withdrawal. In the letter, the senators emphasize that the 2015 WOTUS rule is contrary to law. “The courts have been clear that a federal agency may not exceed the statutory authority granted to it by Congress,” wrote the senators. “The indefensibility of the 2015 rule also is a justification for its withdrawal. In addition to the grounds stated by the courts staying the 2015 WOTUS rule, it’s notable that the Corps raised similar concerns before the final rule was issued.” The senators close the letter by calling on the agencies to reissue a new rule that more accurately defines the Waters of the United States. “We urge EPA and the Corps to develop a replacement WOTUS rule as soon as possible. The definition of waters of the United States has been the subject of many years of litigation, which could be brought to rest by a scientifically sound WOTUS rule that respects the intent of Congress.” ### Related Files 9.27.17-wotus-comments-letter.pdf
09.28.2017	09.28.17 Rounds Asks EPA Administrator for Continued Support of Renewable Fuel Standard Sends letter asking for release of 2018 Renewable Volume Obligations by statutory deadline WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to thank him for his support of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and encourage him to release the final 2018 Renewable Volume Obligations (RVO) by the statutorily-mandated Nov. 30, 2017, deadline. Additionally, he requested Pruitt use all of the resources and most recent information available to make sure the required volume levels are in accordance with congressional intent when the Renewable Fuel Standards program was signed into law. “For more than a decade, the RFS has been a cornerstone of our nation’s fuel and agriculture policy,” wrote Rounds in the letter. “In particular, corn ethanol has proven a reliable, domestically-produced fuel and the corn ethanol industry has been able to grow and thrive as a result of the opportunities presented by the RFS. In 2016, the U.S. ethanol industry contributed $42 billion dollars to the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and supported over 340,000 jobs in the United States...I look forward to continuing to work with the administration to promote a stable regulatory environment that will allow for the continued success of the U.S. biofuels industry.” Full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., SE Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt, I am writing to thank you for your continued support of the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) and the U.S. biofuels industry. I encourage you to release the final 2018 Renewable Volume Obligations (RVO) by the statutorily-required November 30th deadline and make certain the required volumes of cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel, advanced biofuel and total renewable fuel are in accordance with statutory requirements under the law. For more than a decade, the RFS has been a cornerstone of our nation’s fuel and agriculture policy. In particular, corn ethanol has proven a reliable, domestically-produced fuel and the corn ethanol industry has been able to grow and thrive as a result of the opportunities presented by the RFS. In 2016, the U.S. ethanol industry contributed $42 billion dollars to the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and supported over 340,000 jobs in the United States. American consumers depend on products being readily available at an affordable price. In order for the corn ethanol and biofuels industry to continue to grow, provide fuel products to Americans and create American jobs, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must adhere to statutory requirements and make certain there is a stable regulatory environment where American businesses are able to thrive. In order to provide this regulatory certainty for stakeholders, I encourage you to take steps to make certain the final 2018 Renewable Volume Obligations are released by the November 30th statutory deadline. Further, when setting the renewable fuel volume levels, I encourage you to use all of the resources and most recent information at your disposal to make certain the required volume levels are in accordance with congressional intent when the Renewable Fuel Standards program was signed into law. I appreciate your continued support of the Renewable Fuels Standard and corn ethanol. I look forward to continuing to work with the administration to promote a stable regulatory environment that will allow for the continued success of the U.S. biofuels industry. ###
09.18.2017	09.18.17 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Annual Defense Bill Includes a Number of Provisions Authored by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), today issued the following statement following the Senate passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. It includes 12 provisions offered by Rounds. “This year’s NDAA takes important steps to rebuild our military and adequately address the challenges facing our armed forces,” said Rounds. “The NDAA is one of the most important bills we pass each year in Congress, and I’m happy we are able to do it in a bipartisan manner. We come together to put the defense of our nation, our troops and their families before all else. Today’s vote sends a strong message that national defense remains a top priority for members of both parties, and reaffirms to our troops that Congress has their back.” The NDAA includes a number of Rounds’ provisions, including measures that help caregivers of severely wounded veterans and unborn babies with fetal anomalies. Additionally, Rounds successfully gained adoption of measures to improve Department of Defense (DoD) maintenance, cyber security and transition of service members to civilian life. ###
09.18.2017	09.18.17 Delegation to FWS: Adequate Staffing Needed at D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery Staffing levels at the Spearfish facility have declined from seven federal full-time employees in 2013 to one federal full-time employee from 2014 to 2016. WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) requesting adequate staffing at the D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery Archives in Spearfish, South Dakota, after staffing levels at the archives have fallen drastically from seven federal full-time employees (FTEs) in 2013 to one FTE from 2014 to 2016. D.C. Booth is need of additional FTE’s to ensure it has adequate staffing to operate and maintain the facility and safeguard its visitors. “The D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery is critically important to the Spearfish community, its economy, and its residents, as more than 160,000 people visit the Hatchery each year,” the delegation wrote. “The Hatchery has provided jobs and volunteer opportunities in the community, and it exemplifies a successful federal public lands partnership. “We again ask that the FWS fill at least two federal full-time positions at the D.C. Booth Hatchery. We also respectfully request that you provide us with a timeline for filling these vacancies. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your response.” Full text of the letter below: The Honorable Ryan Zinke U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke, The previous administration, through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), attempted over the past several years to make significant changes that would have negatively impacted what has been a successfully operating FWS facility known as the D.C. Booth Historic National Hatchery and Archives in Spearfish, South Dakota – which operates via a partnership with the City of Spearfish and the non-profit Booth Society, Inc. Since 2013, the FWS has made internal decisions in an attempt to permanently close several fish hatcheries nationwide, including the D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery. That closure was scheduled for October 1, 2013. In a bipartisan effort, members of Congress intervened and have successfully kept D.C. Booth and other fish hatcheries scheduled for closure open. Efforts by FWS to relocate the National Fish and Aquatic Conservation Archive located at the D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery have also been stopped by Congress. The Archive is an integral function of the facility. Our most recent effort includes the attached letter to former Secretary Jewell in which we expressed our support for continued operations and adequate staffing for the Hatchery. It is important to note that during the FWS’s closure attempts, the Hatchery’s full-time federal staff was irresponsibly allowed to decline from seven federal full-time employees in 2013 to one federal full-time employee for approximately two and a half years from 2014 to 2016. In the attached letter, we requested that the FWS fill the curator and archivist positions at the D.C. Booth Archives. We were pleased that the FWS filled the facility operations specialist position in 2016, and more recently, the museum curator position in January 2017. However, the D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery still needs, at a minimum, two additional federal full-time employees to be fully-functioning and in stable operating condition. The D.C. Booth Fish Hatchery is critically important to the Spearfish community, its economy, and its residents, as more than 160,000 people visit the Hatchery each year. The Hatchery has provided jobs and volunteer opportunities in the community, and it exemplifies a successful federal public lands partnership. We again ask that the FWS timely fill at least two federal full-time positions at the D.C. Booth Hatchery. We also respectfully request that you provide us with a timeline for filling these vacancies. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your response. CC: Aurelia Skipwith, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish, Wildlife & Parks Sincerely, ###
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Rounds Urges Support of His Amendment to Shield Military Retirees From Costly Prescription Drug Copay Increases Video Available WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today delivered remarks on the Senate floor in support of an amendment he introduced to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) currently being debated on the Senate floor. “I fully support improving care for beneficiaries of the military health system,” said Rounds in his speech. “However, increased TRICARE pharmacy copays must be carefully considered to make certain that they do not disproportionately impact one part of the beneficiary population. Unfortunately that would be the case for South Dakota and other largely rural states with large military retiree populations that live too far from Military Treatment Facilities to draw free prescriptions available there.” Rounds’ amendment would change a provision in the current NDAA bill that raises prescription drug copays under the TRICARE program for military retirees and their families who get their prescription drugs from a retail pharmacy or through mail order, while those who obtain them from a Military Treatment Facility continue to get them for free. Under Rounds’ amendment, military retirees and their families who live more than 40 miles from a Military Treatment Facility would be exempt from the proposed higher copays. Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, as the Senate considers the National Defense Authorization Act, the NDAA, I rise today to discuss a simple amendment in support of my constituents who are military retirees as well as those in many other states. These retirees may be disproportionately and unfairly impacted by increases in TRICARE prescription drug copay increases in the bill we are considering today. Specifically, provisions in this bill will increase cost-sharing amounts for the TRICARE pharmacy benefits program for years 2018 through 2026. The rationale for the increases in the bill we are considering today is that the savings generated from pharmaceutical cost-share increases can be used to improve health outcomes and the experience of care for beneficiaries of the military health system. I fully support improving care for beneficiaries of the military health system. However, increased TRICARE pharmacy copays must be carefully considered to make certain that they do not disproportionately impact one part of the beneficiary population. Unfortunately that would be the case for South Dakota and other largely rural states with large military retiree populations that live too far from Military Treatment Facilities to draw free prescriptions available there. Instead, these military retirees and their families are compelled to use the TRICARE mail order system OR retail pharmacies, and in both cases, they would have to pay higher copays. For example, the copay for a generic drug ordered through the TRICARE mail order system will increase by $10 in Fiscal Year 2018. While this does not seem like a lot of money, these costs can add up rapidly if a military retiree and his or her family members are required to make multiple copays for multiple prescriptions. Simply put – our military retirees who live more than 40 miles away from a Military Treatment Facility should not be unfairly forced to pay higher copays on prescription drugs just because of where they choose to live. Under my amendment, we would take a step back. The amendment would freeze copay increases for TRICARE retirees and their families living more than 40 miles from a Military Treatment Facility. Additionally, the amendment would require the Department of Defense, DOD, to assess the financial impact of the higher copays on these beneficiaries. The 40 mile figure was chosen carefully. Forty miles is a distance used by both DOD and the Department of Veterans Affairs, the VA, as a boundary for reasonable access to a health care facility. DOD’s TRICARE Prime program, in which care is primarily delivered through a Military Treatment Facility, is available to individuals who reside within Prime Service Areas or PSAs. PSAs are locations that are within 40 miles of a Military Treatment Facility. Similarly, the VA Choice program, which allows veterans access to health care in local communities rather than waiting for a VA appointment or traveling to a VA facility, is available to those whose residence is more than 40 miles driving distance from the closest VA medical facility. My amendment would also set a deadline of 60 days after enactment, for a DOD report on the financial impact of the copay increases on military retirees and their families. With the information provided by DOD, Congress can then rationally assess the impact of the copay increases on beneficiaries who live distant from Military Treatment Facilities and incorporate appropriate provisions in future legislation. I appreciate this opportunity to discuss my amendment, which would rectify this unintended effect on military retirees and their families. Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ###
09.12.2017	09.12.17 Rounds Introduces Bill to Strengthen Transparency, Sound Science at EPA WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today introduced the Honest and Open New EPA Science Treatment Act of 2017 (HONEST Act) to make certain that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations are based on the best available science. The HONEST Act would preserve the integrity of the scientific review process by prohibiting the agency from proposing, finalizing or disseminating regulations or assessments based upon science that is not transparent or not reproducible. “The EPA has a long history of using questionable and secretive science to justify its actions, often leading to burdensome new regulations that hurt businesses and destroy jobs,” said Rounds. “When a regulation is implemented, the agency should be able to justify it publicly so we all have a chance to understand its impact. Sound, reliable science is vital to helping us make important policy decisions that impact the health of American families and their livelihoods. The HONEST Act would hold the EPA accountable for its decisions and bring an additional layer of transparency and accountability to the regulatory process.” Additional cosponsors of the HONEST Act include Senate EPW Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) and Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.). Similar legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), Chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, earlier this year. “Because American taxpayers foot the bill for EPA regulations, they have a right to see the data that justifies EPA decisions,” said Chairman Smith. “The HONEST Act requires EPA to base new regulations on sound, publicly available science, which will allow EPA’s data to be independently reviewed. With the introduction of the HONEST Act in the Senate, we are one step closer to restoring confidence in EPA’s rulemaking process. I appreciate Sen. Rounds’ partnership on this legislation, and I look forward to its swift implementation.” The HONEST Act requires that: The EPA administrator shall not propose, finalize or disseminate a covered action unless all scientific and technical information relied on to support the action is 1) specifically identified, and 2) made publicly available. There are protections in the legislation for trade secrets, financial or confidential information. # # #
09.07.2017	09.07.17 Rounds Announces Deadline for Nomination Applications to U.S. Service Academies All applications are due by Oct. 1, 2017 WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that all nomination applications to our nation’s service academies for the fall 2018 semester are due by Oct. 1, 2017. “Our nation’s service academies offer an opportunity to serve our country while receiving a top-notch education,” said Rounds. “I encourage interested students to submit their application for a nomination before October 1st to make sure they will be considered for the 2018-2019 school year.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
08.25.2017	08.25.17 Providing South Dakota Families with Tax Relief a Priority Over the past few months, we’ve seen the U.S. economy improve. In July, employers added 209,000 jobs, bringing the unemployment rate down to 4.3 percent. However, wages remain stagnant and economic growth has hovered at 2 percent for the past 10 years, a full percentage point lower than the historic post-World War II average. According to the Joint Economic Committee (JEC), this has cost families an average of $8,600 in income annually. Also according to the JEC, economic growth will remain at 2 percent under our current policies. This underscores the need for a pro-growth tax policy that creates jobs, increases our competitiveness overseas and gives our economy a much-needed jolt. Our current tax code is far too complicated – it is more than 74,000 pages in length and takes Americans 8.1 billion hours annually to complete. I support the ongoing efforts by the tax-writing committees in Congress to take on comprehensive tax reform. When we return to Washington in September, we expect to ramp up these efforts. I look forward to working with my colleagues to lower the rates for South Dakota families, rein in the IRS and provide long-term certainty in our tax code. It has been more than 30 years since our tax code was reformed. Since then, other countries have lowered their rates and become more competitive, while our tax code has barely changed. The average corporate tax rate in the U.S. is 39 percent, compared to an average of 25 percent by our foreign competitors. It is time to reform the tax code and lower the rates – a plan that we know will help our economy because we’ve seen it work in the past. During both the Kennedy and Reagan presidencies, we saw a reduction in regulations and taxes. In turn, the economy prospered and flourished under their respective administrations. They knew that individual citizens know the best way to spend their own money, and they certainly don’t need Washington telling them what to do with it. While I continue to advocate for comprehensive tax reform, I recognize the complexity in passing comprehensive tax reform. Earlier this year, I introduced a tax relief plan that would reduce the average South Dakota family’s tax burden by about 16 percent. My plan calls for a simple 2 point rate cut across-the-board for each tax bracket. By lowering the tax rate for all, we will be able to provide direct and immediate relief to hardworking families and shake up our economy. This will result in a more prosperous economy for all Americans. We have our work cut out for us in the coming months, and I am ready to work with every senator, on either side of the aisle, to get it done. When Americans are free to spend their money as they see fit—whether that’s sending kids to college, buying a new home, saving for retirement or starting a new business—our economy will benefit. And when our economy is healthy, every American will feel the positive effects. # # #
08.22.2017	08.22.17 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing in Pierre Hearing Entitled “Oversight of the U.S. Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River” PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the opening statement at his hearing in Pierre, entitled, “Oversight of the U.S. Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River.” The hearing will provide oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to make certain the agency is working in an appropriate and responsible manner to manage the Missouri River. Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a field hearing entitled “Oversight of the U.S. Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River.” I would like to thank our witnesses for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. It is fitting that we would hold this hearing here, as we approach the Bicentennial of the settlement of Fort Pierre. Since its early days as a trading post in the 19th century, the Missouri River has been a vital component of the lives of the people living along the riverbank. The United States Army Corps is responsible for managing the Missouri River in a way that effectively maintains the river’s eight authorized purposes – flood control, navigation, irrigation, hydropower, water supply, water quality, recreation, and fish and wildlife management. The Missouri River plays a vital role in the economy and livelihoods of those of us living in communities along the river. We depend on the river for drinking water, recreation, and agriculture. Proper management of the Missouri is an essential component to the success of our cities and towns. Proper management of the Missouri requires the Corps to work closely and communicate extensively with stakeholders such as state and local governments and understand the needs of the communities within the Missouri River basin. After the 2011 flood, in which communities all along the Missouri, as well as our state capitol of Pierre, suffered millions of dollars of damage to homes, city streets, sewage systems, and parks, citizens and local government officials quickly focused on what steps should be taken to make certain this type of destruction never happens again. Because one of the driving factors of the destruction was the lack of advance notice to residents, who received less than one week to prepare for the rising flood waters, a 2014 Water Resource Reform bill, also known as WRRDA attempted to provide the Army Corps with additional resources to increase their flood monitoring capabilities. This legislation authorized the Army Corps to coordinate with various government agencies to administer a soil moisture and snowpack monitoring network and maintain snowpack monitoring sites in the Upper Missouri River Basin. At a March 2016 subcommittee hearing titled “Five Years from the Flood: Oversight of the Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River and Suggestions for Improvement,” which we held in North Sioux City, we learned that the Army Corps had made little progress towards implementation of the snowpack monitoring network because they had failed to submit an appropriations request to Congress to fund the program. Additionally, we learned the Corps was unclear as to what agency should take the lead on implementing the program which also prevented them from moving forward with the snowpack monitoring network. As a result of this information, I had language included in the 2016 WRDA bill that directed the U.S. Army Corps to be the lead agency for coordinating the soil moisture and snowpack monitoring network in the Upper Missouri River Basin. Additionally, I was able to have an amendment included in the 2017 Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bill that would have provided the Corps with two million dollars to begin implementation of the snowpack monitoring program. Throughout the 2017 runoff season, there was a noticeable improvement in communication between the Corps and stakeholders in the Upper Missouri River Basin. I was encouraged to see the Corps’ effort to hold stakeholder conference calls, public meetings and post regular snowpack level updates on their website. I look forward to receiving an update from the Corps’ and the state and local governments regarding their views of the coordination among stakeholders during this past runoff season. The Corps, in conjunction with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, is also responsible for administering the Missouri River Recovery Program which aims to replace lost habitat for three threatened and endangered species along the Missouri River. The program seeks to coordinate with local stakeholder groups, in particular the Missouri River Recovery Implementation Committee, to develop sandbar and wetland habitat to conserve the pallid sturgeon, the lease tern, and the piping plover. A more recent issue we have been confronted with has been the rapidly rising and falling water levels in Lake Sharpe that have occurred over the past several months. These fluctuating water levels have been responsible for property damage and there are concerns this may also impact the fish spawn that recreational fishermen along the Missouri depend on for a successful fishing season. I hope to hear from the Corps that these water releases are being done responsibly and with consideration of the various interests along the River. A healthy and well-managed Missouri River is critical to the communities surrounding it. Today we will hear testimony from both the U.S. Army Corps and state and local government officials on the status of the management of the river and any potential improvements that can be made to better meet the needs of both the surrounding communities and the Corps. Each witness will have five minutes to present their testimony and I will follow-up with questions to the witnesses. I’d like to again thank our witnesses for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
08.20.2017	08.20.17 Rounds Statement on DSU Announcement MADISON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, issued the following statement following today's grand opening of the Beacom Institute of Technology at Dakota State University (DSU) and the announcement that a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) will be built on the campus, bringing additional cybersecurity opportunities to South Dakota: "Today's announcement strengthens DSU's role as a leader in cybersecurity," said Rounds. "Today, 85 percent of DSU computing students leave South Dakota after completing their education. By building a new, state-of-the-art SCIF right here in Madison, our young people who earn degrees in cybersecurity or related fields will be able to work directly on national security and cyber issues without having to leave home. It is a testament to the incredible work being done by the faculty and students at DSU, the state of South Dakota for their continued support, and the generosity of Denny Sanford and Miles Beacom, whose belief in DSU's mission has led to today's investment in its future." "As recent events have shown, the U.S. is not immune to cyber-attacks by hostile foreign actors. It is the newest, most sophisticated form of attack threatening our national security today with serious potential consequences. I am proud of DSU's role in protecting our nation against cyber threats and look forward to watching the campus continue to play a vital role in our national security efforts."
08.16.2017	08.16.17 Rounds Statement on President Signing Post-9/11 GI Bill Into Law New law will make necessary improvements to Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits for student veterans, includes a number of Rounds’ provisions MITCHELL – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today made the following statement after President Trump signed into law the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, which includes three provisions introduced by Rounds: “Our veterans have made incredible sacrifices for our country, and they should be able to fully use the benefits they’ve been promised when they enter civilian life,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased that this important, bipartisan legislation was signed into law today.” The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 passed the Senate on Aug. 2, 2017 and includes the following provisions introduced by Rounds: A bill he introduced with Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) to add all Purple Heart recipients, regardless of length of time spent on active duty, to the list of eligible veterans who can access full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits was included in the bill. The Veterans TEST Accessibility Act, introduced by Rounds and Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), to help returning veterans transition into civilian life by making sure they aren’t forced to exhaust a full month of GI Bill benefits in order to be reimbursed for a low-cost certification or test. A provision to allow for more flexibility in allocating Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to survivors of deceased service members. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 makes much-needed updates for reservists, Purple Heart recipients, veterans who face school closures while enrolled and surviving family members. The legislation also provides increased resources and authority for educational assistance to pursue science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs, computer programming and career technical training. Most significantly, this bill recognizes our country’s need for an agile and adaptable workforce and that American workers need to be lifelong learners. For that purpose, this bill eliminates the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their GI Bill so they can use their benefits at any time in their professional career. Additional Provisions: Provides GI Bill eligibility for reservists mobilized under selected reserve orders for preplanned missions in support of the combatant commands or in response to a major disaster or emergency; Provides GI Bill eligibility for reservists undergoing medical care; Provides full GI Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients regardless of length of service; Extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients; and Increases GI Bill payments by $2,300 per year for veterans with less than 12 months of active service. The legislation is named in honor of Harry Walter Colmery, an Army Air Service veteran and former national commander of the American Legion who drafted the original GI Bill in 1944 to improve the transition for World War II veterans back to civilian life. ###
08.03.2017	08.03.17 Rounds, Udall Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Allow All Military Women to Count Maternity Leave Toward Years of Service WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Tom Udall (D-N.M.) today introduced a bipartisan bill to make certain that women serving in the National Guard and Reserves can take maternity leave without worrying about how it will affect their creditable military service. “Our men and women in uniform serve bravely and honorably in both the regular armed forces and the reserve component,” said Rounds. “Our legislation evens the playing field to make sure mothers who serve in the National Guard or Reserve receive the same maternity leave benefits as their active-duty counterparts. It will allow these new mothers to focus on their newborns without worrying about making-up missed drill periods and other duties.” “On behalf of the more than 45,000 members of the National Guard Association of the United States, we strongly support Senator Udall and Senator Rounds’ amendment to the FY18 NDAA that would ensure Guardsmen and Reservists are entitled to the same maternity leave as their active duty counterparts," said B.G. (Retired) J. Roy Robinson, president of the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS). "We urge the Senate to adopt this bipartisan amendment, which would guarantee paid maternity leave for the more than 150,000 women currently serving in the National Guard and Reserves. This is simply a question of fairness.” The Mothers of Military Service Leave (MOMS) Act, makes sure that female service members of the reserve component receive creditable military service pay and points during time spent on maternity leave. The Department of Defense established new policies for maternity leave in 2016, authorizing 12 weeks fully paid maternity leave after normal pregnancy and childbirth. However, under the current law, female service members in the Reserve Component can lose out on credit for their military service and points towards retirement while they are on maternity leave. Reserve component members in inactive duty training status are still required to attend unit training assemblies, if the female service member does not perform duty within the allotted timeframe, she is in jeopardy of not receiving credit toward retirement. This amendment will make certain female service members of the reserve component receive pay and points for 12 pay periods toward retirement after normal pregnancy and childbirth. The provision is supported by the NGAUS and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS). Rounds and Udall also intend to introduce the MOMS Leave Act as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 when that bill is debated on the Senate floor, as early as September.
08.02.2017	08.02.17 Rounds Statement on President Trump Signing Sanctions Bill Into Law WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement to commend President Trump for signing into law the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, a set of expanded sanctions against Russia, Iran and North Korea: “Russia, Iran and North Korea continue to express aggressive, destabilizing behaviors that put our regional allies and our own national security at risk. Iran is one of the world’s largest state sponsors of terrorism, North Korea continues to pursue a nuclear missile that could reach our shores and Russia has shown aggression in Ukraine, Syria and cyberspace. By imposing strong, enforceable sanctions against these nations, we are sending a strong message that the U.S. will not tolerate these acts of aggression. I thank President Trump for signing these sanctions into law today.” The Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act passed the Senate with bipartisan support last week. ###
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Rounds Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the following opening remarks at his hearing entitled, “Oversight of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund Program.” Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing entitled “Oversight of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund Program.” Today we will hear testimony from witnesses with extensive involvement in cleaning up Superfund sites. Our witnesses will discuss their experiences in working with the EPA, state governments and local communities to cleanup and repurpose these sites, as well as offer suggestions on how cleanups can be completed quicker and more efficiently while best utilizing taxpayer dollars. Since 1980, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, has been a cornerstone of our nation’s hazardous waste management program. CERCLA, also known as Superfund, was enacted by Congress to give the federal government authority to clean up contaminated and hazardous waste sites and respond to environmental emergencies, oil spills and natural disasters. The program created a trust fund that is dedicated to cleaning up abandoned waste sites and gives the agency the authority to work with potentially responsible parties to facilitate a site cleanup. It also allows for two types of cleanup actions: short-term removals in emergency instances that require prompt action; and long-term remedial response actions that allow for the permanent reclamation and reuse of the site. Superfund sites take many forms. They can be abandoned mine lands, manufacturing facilities, military installations or shuttered chemical facilities. Common contaminates at these sites include lead, asbestos and dioxin – all of which can pose a great danger to human health and can contaminate soil and groundwater. They are located in all of the 50 states and several U.S. territories. These sites pose a risk to human health, the environment, can contaminate the water supply and prevent valuable land from being used to benefit the community. Created in 1983, the National Priorities List, or NPL, consists of 1,336 sites across the country that are a national priority for cleanups. These sites represent those that pose a great risk to human health and the environment. In addition to these 1,336 sites, there are 53 sites proposed for listing on the NPL. 393 sites have been successfully cleaned up and deleted from the list. While the Superfund program has been vital to reclaiming previously contaminated sites, cleanups are often delayed due to a complex bureaucracy and delayed decision-making that can hinder the cleanup process. These delays result in contaminated sites languishing in communities, at times for decades, while stakeholders and other parties involved in the cleanup determine the best path forward for the site. These cleanups should not be delayed or halted because of bureaucratic red tape and lingering disagreements among parties. When these delays occur, it is the citizens and the local communities that pay the price. When contaminated sites are allowed to languish and no progress is made towards a cleanup, the site continues to pose a potential risk to human health, and valuable property that could benefit the community remains unused. The EPA, under the leadership of Administrator Pruitt, has made cleaning up superfund sites a priority for the agency. Earlier this year, Administrator Pruitt established a Superfund Task Force that was tasked with providing recommendations on how the Superfund program can be improved. Last week, the Task Force released their report which provided 42 recommendations that can commence within one year and are currently within EPA’s existing statutory authority. These recommendations aim to expedite cleanups and remediation, re-invigorate responsible party cleanups, encourage private investment, promote redevelopment and community revitalization and better engage partners and stakeholders. On the same day the report was released, Administrator Pruitt issued a memorandum directing the EPA to immediately being implementing 11of these recommendations. I am encouraged that Administrator Pruitt has made cleaning up these sites a priority and am hopeful that the recommendations provided by the Task Force will result in programmatic improvements that allow for quicker and more efficient cleanups. The EPA should strive to work in a transparent, cooperative fashion with state and local governments and stakeholders to make certain these sites are effectively cleaned up and can be safely redeveloped for the benefit of the communities in which they are located. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
07.28.2017	07.28.17 Rounds Statement on Health Care Reform Legislation Vote WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after the Senate voted against passing a bill to repeal parts of Obamacare: “The fight to relieve American families from our current failing health care system is far from over. I will continue working with my colleagues to stabilize the insurance markets and prevent premiums from continuing to skyrocket. The American people deserve better than the failing Obamacare disaster that has forced millions off the health care plans they enjoyed, driven up the cost of health care – 124 percent for South Dakotans in just the past four years – and caused insurance companies to leave the marketplace in droves.” ###
07.25.2017	07.25.17 Rounds Statement on Vote to Begin Debate on Obamacare Repeal and Replace Legislation WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after voting to begin debate on legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare: “While this process will take several weeks, today’s vote to begin debate on legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare is an important first step as we work to stabilize the insurance markets and prevent premiums from continuing to skyrocket for South Dakota families. The American people deserve better than the failing Obamacare disaster that has forced millions off the health care plans they enjoyed, driven up the cost of health care – 124 percent for South Dakotans in just the past four years – and caused providers to leave the marketplace in droves. We now have a real opportunity to provide relief to American families who were left with fewer choices and higher costs under Obamacare.” ###
07.24.2017	07.24.17 Rounds, Hoeven Reintroduce Veterans Access to Long Term Care and Health Services Act VA Secretary Supports Goals of Legislation WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Hoeven (R-N.D.) recently reintroduced the Veterans Access to Long Term Care and Health Services Act, which expands veterans’ access to long-term care (LTC) services. The legislation will enable veterans to receive nursing home care in their home communities near their loved ones because more nursing homes will be able to treat veterans without having to comply with burdensome red tape. “South Dakota veterans have made incredible sacrifices to keep us safe,” said Rounds. “Our legislation would remove red tape and regulatory hurdles to provide more options to our veterans when seeking care, particularly our rural vets who utilize the Choice Act in greater proportions. I thank Sen. Hoeven for continuing to lead this important effort to improve the quality of care for our vets.” The legislation allows the VA to enter into provider agreements with qualified health care and extended care facilities. The bill also enables more local health care providers to accept veteran patients and bypass burdensome and oftentimes expensive federal contracting requirements. Currently, the VA can enter into federal contracts with non-VA providers in rural areas to provide services to veterans, but many LTC facilities have not admitted VA patients because of difficult regulations and reporting requirements. In contrast, when contracting with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), LTC facilities are not subject to the same regulations. The legislation would make LTC requirements the same whether they contract with the VA or CMS. This gives veterans more options to access LTC services closer to their homes, families and loved ones. This bill is supported by the American Health Care Association, the nation’s largest association of long term and post-acute care providers. ###
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Rounds Applauds USDA Decision to Open Sensitive CRP Acres for Emergency Haying and Grazing WASHINGTON –U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement in support of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) decision to open sensitive Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres for emergency haying and grazing, effective today, July 20, 2017, for additional counties in South Dakota. More information can be found on the U.S. Drought Monitor. USDA is adding the ability for farmers and ranchers in these areas to hay and graze CRP wetland and buffer practices. “Secretary Perdue understands the severity of the drought situation facing farmers and ranchers in South Dakota, and I thank him for continuing to provide additional tools to help producers during these tough times,” said Rounds. Last month, Rounds and Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) wrote to USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue urging him to provide timely assistance to counties currently facing extreme drought conditions. For CRP practices previously announced, including those authorized today, USDA is allowing this emergency action during and after the primary nesting season, where local drought conditions warrant in parts of South Dakota that have reached D2, or “severe” drought level or greater according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. This includes counties with any part of their border located within 150 miles of authorized counties in the state, and may extend into surrounding states. All emergency grazing must end Sept. 30, 2017 and emergency haying must end Aug. 31, 2017. To learn more about the CRP program, click HERE. To find your local FSA office and learn more about drought relief benefits available, click HERE. # # #
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Rounds Cosponsors Legislation to Reform Post-9/11 GI Bill Broad, bipartisan measure will make necessary improvements to Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits for student veterans, includes a number of Rounds’ provisions WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today joined his colleagues in introducing broad, bipartisan legislation that seeks to improve veterans’ education benefits and enhance the Post-9/11 GI Bill. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 includes three provisions introduced by Rounds earlier this year. “Our veterans have made incredible sacrifices for our country, and they should be able to fully use the benefits they’ve been promised when they enter civilian life,” said Rounds. “I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan bill, which includes three provisions I introduced this year. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this legislation signed into law.” Rounds Provisions Included in the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017: A bill he introduced with Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) to add all Purple Heart recipients, regardless of length of time spent on active duty, to the list of eligible veterans who can access full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits was included in the bill. The Veterans TEST Accessibility Act, introduced by Rounds and Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), to help returning veterans transition into civilian life by making sure they aren’t forced to exhaust a full month of GI Bill benefits in order to be reimbursed for a low-cost certification or test. A provision to allow for more flexibility in allocating Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to survivors of deceased service members. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 makes much-needed updates for reservists, Purple Heart recipients, veterans who face school closures while enrolled and surviving family members. The legislation also provides increased resources and authority for educational assistance to pursue science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs, computer programming and career technical training. Most significantly, this bill recognizes our country’s need for an agile and adaptable workforce and that American workers need to be lifelong learners. For that purpose, this bill eliminates the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their GI Bill so they can use their benefits at any time in their professional career. Additional Provisions: Provides GI Bill eligibility for reservists mobilized under selected reserve orders for preplanned missions in support of the combatant commands or in response to a major disaster or emergency; Provides GI Bill eligibility for reservists undergoing medical care; Provides full GI Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients regardless of length of service; Extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients; and Increases GI Bill payments by $2,300 per year for veterans with less than 12 months of active service. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. The legislation is named in honor of Harry Walter Colmery, an Army Air Service veteran and former national commander of the American Legion who drafted the original GI Bill in 1944 to improve the transition for World War II veterans back to civilian life. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on July 13, 2017, and passed out of committee on July 19. ###
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Rounds Joins Colleagues in Filing Resolution Disapproving of CFPB Arbitration Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today joined 22 of his colleagues in filing a Congressional Review Act (CRA) Joint Resolution of Disapproval in the Senate against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) arbitration rule. “The arbitration agreements rule is yet another example of the CFPB overstepping its authority to impose burdensome, unnecessary regulations that do more harm than good,” said Rounds. “If finalized, this rule would actually cost consumers more in the long run by pushing consumers into class action lawsuits as opposed to arbitration. According to the CFPB’s own studies, consumers receive, on average, $32 in relief through class action lawsuits compared to $5,389 in arbitration. Additionally, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has said that this rule could increase the risk of litigation so much that it could adversely affect the safety and soundness of the banking system – the cost of which will ultimately be handed down to consumers." The Congressional Review Act permits Congress to overturn an agency rule within 60 legislative days after an agency has submitted the rule to Congress, with a simple majority vote. ###
07.19.2017	07.19.17 Rounds, King Reintroduce Bill to Give Small Businesses, Community Banks and Credit Unions a Say in CFPB Decision Making WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, and U.S. Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), today reintroduced bipartisan legislation to make sure small businesses, community banks and credit unions will always have a strong voice in the rulemaking process at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) by establishing three permanent advisory panels. S.1963, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Board Enhancement Act, would codify two existing advisory boards, the Community Bank Advisory Council and the Credit Union Advisory Council, and would create an additional advisory committee for small businesses. “It is crucial that rural states like South Dakota have a seat at the table when the CFPB decides to write new rules that can dramatically impact their economies,” said Rounds. “The bipartisan legislation that Senator King and I introduced will make sure small businesses, local credit unions and community banks are appropriately represented in the CFPB’s rulemaking process. If we can’t get rid of the CFPB entirely, we should at least be able to exert control over this bureaucracy.” “Small businesses, community banks and credit unions are powerful forces in America’s economy, with rural communities across the nation relying on them to help create jobs and grow the economy,” said King. “That’s why these institutions deserve a seat at the table as the CFPB makes important and far-reaching financial decisions. I’m proud to stand with Senator Rounds, my fellow former governor, to help give them a voice on behalf of rural America.” The CFPB is an independent agency created by Dodd-Frank responsible for consumer protection of the financial sector. It currently has four advisory groups that help it set policy, though only one – the Consumer Advisory Board – is required by Dodd-Frank. Rounds and King previously introduced this legislation during the last Congress. In addition to establishing three permanent advisory panels, the bill would require each committee to adequately represent members from rural or underserved areas. ###
07.14.2017	07.14.17 Rounds, Donnelly Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve VA Data Sharing and Combat Opioid Abuse Epidemic The VA Prescription Data Accountability Act would expand the VA’s authority to share prescription drug data with state monitoring programs WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) today announced the introduction of the VA Prescription Data Accountability Act, bipartisan legislation that would clarify current law to allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to share data with state Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) for patients who are prescribed opioids by VA providers, including both veterans and their dependents. The VA is currently only sharing prescription data on veterans, not their dependents or others treated by VA providers, due to technical issues related to the VA’s health records system. As a result, a significant amount of VA prescription data is not being shared with states’ prescription drug monitoring programs. “South Dakota is home to approximately 76,000 veterans who have been promised adequate care from the VA,” said Rounds. “Our bill simply updates current law to give the VA authority to securely share patient data with state prescription drug monitoring programs; crucial systems that reinforce safe prescribing practices to cut down on opioid abuse and protect our vets. I look forward to working with Sen. Donnelly to get this straight-forward, bipartisan, cost-effective legislation signed into law.” The VA Prescription Data Accountability Act is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Association of the United States Navy. Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-2) and Congressman Brad Wenstrup (OH-2) introduced companion bipartisan legislation that passed unanimously in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressional Budget Office has scored the House companion as having no added cost to taxpayers. ###
07.13.2017	07.13.17 Rounds to Host Tele-Townhall Next Monday WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) is inviting all South Dakotans to join him in a live, toll free tele-townhall next Monday, July 17, 2017, at 8 p.m. CT/7:00 p.m. MT to discuss the health care bill in the Senate and other issues important to South Dakotans. During the tele-townhall, Rounds will be taking live questions from participants. You can participate in the tele-townhall by calling the number or clicking on the link below: What: Tele-townhall When: Monday, July 17, 2017, at 8 p.m. CT/7:00 p.m. MT Call #: 877-229-8493 Pin #: 115923 Livestream: https://video.teleforumonline.com/video/streaming.php?client=15923 If you are unable to join the call but would like to leave a message for Senator Rounds, you can always contact him by calling one of his offices or emailing him on his website at www.rounds.senate.gov. **Please note that the phone line will go live approximately 10 minutes prior to the start of the call. ###
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Rounds Supports McConnell Decision to Delay Scheduled August In-State Work Period Following Rounds’ and others’ suggestion, the in-state work period previously scheduled for the entire month of August will now begin the third week of August, giving senators more time to work on important legislative initiatives WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement in support of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s (R-Ky.) decision to delay the August in-state work period until the third week of August. “I’m glad that Leader McConnell agreed to our request to remain working in Washington, D.C., for part of the scheduled August in-state work period,” said Rounds. “This will give us the opportunity to continue working on issues that impact all Americans such as health care, tax reform and passing a responsible budget. I look forward to supporting Leader McConnell as we work to make progress on important legislation that will have meaningful effects on South Dakota families.” Rounds and a number of his colleagues participated in a press conference earlier today to follow up on a June 30, 2017, letter they sent to Leader McConnell requesting that he shorten or cancel the August in-state work period. “[The American people] expect us to get our work done in a timely fashion,” Rounds said during the press conference. “We can’t do that without spending some extra time here….this is our way of expressing to leadership our support for their interest in extending that time period.” “We’ve had the opportunity to get back home on a regular basis...the one message we get time and again is they sent us here to fix things. They didn’t send us here to let the status quo just continue on. And part of the way that you do that is – is you actually get together and you get things done. What we’re finding is that this Senate schedule is such that when you have delays that are being imposed right now – and it is the Democrats prerogative to delay – they can do that – that’s their right – but that means then is what we’ve got to do as the majority what we think is right and that is to get our job done.” Full video of Rounds’ remarks can be found here. Watch the entire press conference here. ###
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Group of Senators Comment On August Recess Delay “It is time to get results for the American people” WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-SD), David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Luther Strange (R-AL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) comment on Majority Leader McConnell’s decision to cancel the first two weeks of the Senate’s scheduled August state work period: “We are glad leadership took our concerns into consideration. It is time to get results for the American people.” On June 30, the Senators sent a letter to Leader McConnell outlining their request to work through the August recess period. They will continue working to make progress on fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. ###
07.10.2017	07.10.17 Rounds Supports USDA Decision to Open CRP Acres for Haying WASHINGTON – Showing support, U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) decision to open up Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres for haying in all South Dakota counties from July 16, 2017 – August 30, 2017. Last month, Rounds and Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) wrote to USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue urging him to provide timely assistance to counties currently facing extreme drought conditions. Since then, USDA has opened up all South Dakota counties for CRP grazing until September 30, 2017. “Once again, I thank Secretary Perdue for acting quickly to give ranchers additional flexibility to feed their herds,” said Rounds. “Opening up CRP acres early for emergency haying will provide South Dakota producers with additional relief from the ongoing drought.” To learn more about the CRP program, click HERE. To find your local FSA office and learn more about drought relief benefits available, click HERE. # # #
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Rounds Statement on Committee Passage of Annual Defense Bill WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), today issued the following statement on the committee’s approval of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. During debate, 277 amendments - offered by both Republican and Democrats - were considered, many of which were adopted. The committee voted unanimously to send the bill to the full Senate floor for consideration. “This year’s NDAA takes important steps to rebuild our military and adequately address the challenges our military leaders have laid out before us in committee hearings,” said Rounds. “The NDAA is one of the most important bills we pass each year in Congress, and it is one of the rare instances in which we truly check our party ID at the door to put the defense of our nation, our troops and their families before all else. As we head into the Fourth of July holiday to celebrate our freedoms which are defended by those who serve in the armed forces, we are sending a strong message that national defense remains a top priority for members of both parties.” The NDAA includes a number of Rounds’ provisions, including measures that help caregivers of severely wounded veterans and unborn babies with fetal anomalies. Additionally, Rounds successfully gained adoption of measures to improve DoD management and professional development for officers. ###
06.23.2017	06.23.17 Rounds Supports USDA Decision to open CRP Acres for Grazing WASHINGTON – Showing support, U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) decision to open up South Dakota CRP acres for grazing in areas categorized as D2 (severe drought) or D3 (extreme drought) until September 30, 2017. Last week, Rounds and Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) wrote to USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue urging him to provide timely assistance to counties currently facing extreme drought conditions. “I thank Secretary Perdue for acting quickly to give ranchers additional flexibility to feed their herds,” said Rounds. “Opening up additional CRP acres for grazing will provide South Dakota producers with much-needed relief from the ongoing drought. It is a great first step, and I will continue working with my colleagues to make certain our producers are equipped with all the tools possible to manage these difficult conditions.” Counties in South Dakota eligible for emergency grazing of CRP include: Brown, Campbell, Corson, Dewey, Edmunds, Faulk, Haakon, Hand, Hughes, Hyde, McPherson, Meade, Pennington, Perkins, Potter, Stanley, Sully, Walworth and Ziebach. # # #
06.21.2017	06.21.17 Rounds, Casey, Booker Introduce Legislation to Strengthen Prenatal Care for Military Families WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-SD), Bob Casey (D-PA) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) today introduced bipartisan legislation to make certain that pregnant women covered by TRICARE have the opportunity to receive critical, expedited prenatal care upon the first detection of a birth defect in utero. The TRICARE Treatment for Fetal Repair Improvement Act would help make certain that a pregnant woman covered under TRICARE, a Department of Defense program that provides health care to military personnel and their dependents, receives expedited fetal surgery if needed. This legislation responds to multiple examples of referrals taking several weeks or longer, a period that can render the option of fetal surgery to repair an anomaly less viable. “When it comes to fetal surgery, every minute counts,” said Rounds. “When technology is available that could minimize or eliminate fetal abnormalities and dramatically increase the quality of life of the child via fetal surgery, there should be no hesitation to act. Our legislation would make certain that mothers and their unborn babies receive critical, expedient care upon first detection of an anomaly.” “I’m proud to support legislation that puts military mothers and children first,” said Casey. “This bipartisan, commonsense approach will ensure that mothers served by TRICARE are receiving the care that they need, when they need it.” “Preventable circumstances should never stand in the way of a family obtaining necessary care, and this bill will help ensure that military women and families receive the timely, critical care that they need to maximize their chances of achieving the best possible health outcomes,” said Booker. Rounds introduced similar legislation in the 114th Congress. # # #
06.19.2017	06.19.17 Rounds, Durbin Introduce Bill to Help Families of Wounded Warriors WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) today introduced legislation to help make certain wounded warriors and their families are fully aware of the services available to them through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) caregiver program. The Caregiver Program Information Improvement Act of 2017 would require the caregiver program to be added to the list of statutorily-mandated counseling items for service members pending separation from the Department of Defense. “Our wounded warriors are among the best and bravest our country has to offer,” said Rounds. “Unfortunately, they are often the most vulnerable. Many require around-the-clock care long after their service to our country, placing additional burdens on their loved ones who become their caregivers. The VA has programs in place to assist loved ones with their transition into the caregiver role, but too often we have heard from families that they were unaware of the VA’s caregiver program. Making sure they are fully aware of the support and resources available to them is but one step we can take to ease the challenges of our injured service members and their families, who have sacrificed so much defending our freedoms.” “America owes each and every veteran a great debt of gratitude,” said Durbin. “The VA Family Caregivers Program proved it can make a difference in the lives of our service members and the dedicated caregivers who made the decision to care for them. Ensuring that every veteran is educated about this program will make countless more families aware of their eligibility for critical homecare services and financial assistance.” The VA caregiver program allows the VA to provide benefits to eligible caregivers who support a wounded veteran who sustained a serious injury and is in need of personal care services. Services available to caregivers through the program include travel expenses, access to health care insurance, mental health services and counseling, VA caregiver training and a monthly stipend. In addition to requiring the caregiver program to be added to the list of counseling items, the bill would include: (1) A requirement that all service members be asked if they have a caregiver at home, and (2) A requirement for identified caregivers to be invited into appropriate sessions of DOD pre-separation counselling with the transitioning service member in order to facilitate a better understanding not only of the services available to the caregiver but also how the transition will impact the caregiver as well as the service member. The original VA family caregivers program was created by a Durbin-authored provision in the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009, which was enacted in 2010. In recent years, Durbin introduced the VA Family Caregivers Expansion and Improvement Act, which expands eligibility for the VA Caregivers program to support veteran caregivers of all service eras. The VA Caregivers program helps ensure that veterans as well as their caregivers receive the support they need and deserve, and significantly outweighs costs associated with alternative, institutionalized care. # # #
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Rounds, Thune Urge USDA to Provide Timely Drought Assistance, Open CRP Acres for Haying and Grazing WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D. and John Thune (R-S.D.) today urged U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary (USDA) Sonny Perdue to provide timely assistance to counties currently facing extreme drought conditions, and if drought conditions worsen, as expected, to be ready to provide expedited assistance to counties that will likely soon be in extreme drought conditions and eligible for assistance from the Livestock Forage Program (LFP). In their letter to Perdue, Thune and Rounds also requested that Conservation Reserve Program acres be made available for emergency haying and grazing as soon as possible due to the substantial loss of grazing and forage for feed. “Timely assistance is needed in order to preserve foundation grazing livestock herds in the drought-stricken areas of our state from further downsizing due to lack of feed and forage ... Accordingly, we request that you mobilize applicable county, state, and headquarters staff to be prepared to take LFP applications and issue payments as soon as practicable after the D3 category is realized by any county,” the senators wrote. “In addition, we request that as counties are triggered for emergency haying and grazing of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres, that you make as many of the 977,555 CRP-enrolled acres in South Dakota available for haying and grazing due to the already realized substantial loss of grazing and forage for feed as soon as reasonably possible.” Counties are determined eligible for immediate assistance under the LFP as soon as any part of a county is at a D3 (extreme drought) category rating by the U.S. Drought Monitor. Several counties in South Dakota are currently rated D2 and are expected to be rated D3 in the near future. More than 484,000 CRP-enrolled acres in South Dakota are considered “environmentally sensitive” by USDA, which does not normally allow these acres to be hayed or grazed under emergency conditions. Thune and Rounds are requesting that the environmentally sensitive acres be opened for haying and grazing, as they were in 2012, and that haying and grazing be allowed in eligible counties beginning no later than July 15. Full text of the letter can be found below: Secretary Sonny Perdue U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: Drought conditions are expanding across the Northern Plains at an alarming rate. Thousands of winter wheat acres are currently being harvested for hay, and pastures in many areas are critically short. In addition, the 2017 hay and forage harvested to date in many counties in our state is yielding one-third or less of normal production. Timely assistance is needed in order to preserve foundation grazing livestock herds in the drought-stricken areas of our state from further downsizing due to lack of feed and forage. The Livestock Forage Program (LFP), authorized under the 2014 Farm Bill, is triggered in a county when it is rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having a D3 (extreme drought) intensity in any area of the county at any time during the normal grazing period in an amount equal to three monthly payments. The June 8, 2017, Drought Monitor indicated several counties in our state at the D2 category, and with drought conditions worsening, we expect the D3 category to appear in the very near future. Accordingly, we request that you mobilize applicable county, state, and headquarters staff to be prepared to take LFP applications and issue payments as soon as practicable after the D3 category is realized by any county. In addition, we request that as counties are triggered for emergency haying and grazing of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres, that you make as many of the 977,555 CRP-enrolled acres in South Dakota available for haying and grazing due to the already realized substantial loss of grazing and forage for feed as soon as reasonably possible. We are aware that once CRP emergency haying and grazing is triggered, CRP will not normally be available until after August 1, 2017, the end of the primary nesting period in our state. Unfortunately, the forage and pasture losses are already of such great magnitude in our state that additional feed will be desperately needed, as it was during the 2012 drought. Pastures and forage crops will not recover even if rainfall occurs later this summer. For 2017 only, we strongly urge you to allow the same environmentally sensitive CRP practices to be approved for emergency haying or grazing that were approved by the secretary in 2012 due to drought. And that you pursue any option that would reasonably allow the harvest of forage from all CRP in time to help sustain our grazing livestock industry. We request that CRP acres enrolled in all practices be released no later than July 15, 2017, as this is consistent with the release for haying Wetlands Reserve Program acres in South Dakota. Should you agree to our request, more than 484,000 additional acres may be available in South Dakota that are enrolled in CRP practices considered more environmentally and wildlife habitat sensitive, and otherwise considered ineligible to be released for emergency haying and grazing. The grazing livestock producers in our state already suffering depressed prices would benefit greatly if you would timely release the additional CRP contracts for emergency haying and grazing. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, ###
06.14.2017	06.14.17 Rounds: Today's VA Announcement will Save Countless Veterans from Incurring Improper Health Care Costs WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today praised the announcement that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has taken steps to comply with the Emergency Care Fairness Act (ECFA) and begin covering the emergency care costs of veterans with third-party health insurance when that insurance doesn’t cover the full amount of non-VA emergency care. Since the ECFA has been enacted, an estimated 370,000 claims have been in limbo, forcing these veterans to cover the cost of emergency care services despite the VA’s legal obligation to do so. During Rounds’ questioning at a Senate Veterans’ Affairs hearing today, VA Secretary David Shulkin announced that the agency is planning to drop its appeal of a recent federal court decision requiring the VA to write regulations to comply with the ECFA. Additionally, Shulkin told Rounds that the agency has formally submitted proposed regulations to begin reimbursing emergency care costs to veterans. The new proposed regulations will now go through the formal rulemaking process. “Today’s announcement is a victory for the countless veterans who have been waiting – some literally for years – for the VA to follow through with their legal obligation to cover their emergency care costs. Those most affected by the VA’s non-compliance are our elderly veterans, many of whom are living on fixed incomes and have limited resources to pay medical bills. They can now breathe a sigh of relief as we are one step closer to rectifying this issue once and for all. Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our freedoms; we have a moral obligation – and in this case a legal one – to take proper care of them during and after their service to our country.” The Emergency Care Fairness Act was enacted in February 2010 and is intended to make certain that veterans with third-party health insurance are covered by the VA if their outside insurance does not cover the full amount of non-VA emergency care. Despite its unanimous support and clear congressional intent, the VA has continued its previous policy of denying veterans’ eligible emergency care claims for the past seven years. Last year, Rounds and Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) led a bipartisan letter, signed by 22 Senators, to then-VA Secretary Robert McDonald urging him to comply with the ECFA. Rounds also spoke on the Senate floor last year in support of the ECFA. During his remarks, he urged the VA to drop its appeal of the court’s ruling and begin writing new regulations that comply with the law, both of which Shulkin announced was happening today.
06.14.2017	06.14.17 Rounds: Bipartisan E-15 Legislation Benefits Consumers, Corn Producers Alike By Continuing to Allow E-15 Gasoline to be Sold During the Summer Months, Bill Would Increase Markets for South Dakota Producers and Increase Consumer Choice at the Pump WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today at a hearing discussed the Consumer and Fuel Retailers Choice Act, which would extend the Reid vapor pressure (RVP) waiver and lift the summertime ban on E-15 gasoline. Doing so would provide regulatory certainty and increase economic opportunity for business owners who sell E-15 and other higher-ethanol/gasoline fuel blends. “The corn industry in the state of South Dakota has a huge amount of support among our population,” said Rounds at the hearing. “As the market for ethanol increases, the market for corn will grow, and that means more jobs and increased revenue for corn farmers, many of whom work on their own family-owned farms.” “This particular legislation that’s in front of us, where we go from 10 to 15 [percent ethanol allowed in gasoline], don’t you think that what we’re really doing is just taking out a whole lot of red tape so that we can sell [the same] product throughout the year?” The Consumer and Fuel Retailers Choice Act would grant a one-pound per square inch ethanol waiver for applicable RVP limitations for fuel blends containing more than 10 percent ethanol between June 1 and September 15. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) currently prohibits E-15 fuel sales in non-flex fuel vehicles during the summer months when most driving occurs due to fuel volatility limits. Rounds is a cosponsor of this legislation which was introduced by Sen. Deb Fischer (R-Neb.). ###
06.12.2017	06.12.17 Rounds Statement on End of Ban on U.S. Beef Imports to China WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after the administration announced the end of the ban on U.S. beef imports to China: “Agriculture is South Dakota’s number one industry, with nearly 3.85 million head of cattle,” said Rounds. “I am pleased with the administration’s announcement and am glad we are now able to export our high-quality beef to China. Opening up this new, lucrative market will create substantial opportunities for South Dakota ranchers and bring a much-needed boost to the ag economy.” On September 22, 2016, the process was started to end the ban on U.S. beef, which began in 2003. On April 5, 2017, Rounds joined 38 of his Senate colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump requesting that he prioritize opening up China’s market to U.S. beef exports prior to his meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. On May 12, 2017, an agreement was reached to open Chinese markets to U.S. beef no later than July 16, 2017. On May 17, 2017, Rounds sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to stress the importance of expanding exports, in particular opening up U.S. beef to China, the world’s second-largest importer of beef. ###
06.09.2017	06.09.17 Rounds Calls for Administration to Reverse Obama-Era Regulations Limiting Consumer Choice WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined 13 of his colleagues in sending a letter to HHS Secretary Tom Price encouraging the administration to reverse Obama-era regulations that limit consumers’ ability to purchase short-term, limited duration insurance plans. These plans offer consumers a variety of health benefits and are another option for health coverage, but a recent regulation decreased the maximum policy length of short-term plans from 364 days to just 90 days. As a result of this regulation, providers that once offered short-term plans may exit the market, leaving consumers in some locations with even fewer options for health insurance. “Short-term, limited duration plans offered consumers a viable health coverage option until an Obama-era regulation went into effect that greatly restricted the availability of these policies,” the senators wrote. “As health insurers continue to leave the Obamacare exchanges, consumers need more, not fewer, options for health insurance. Reversing this regulation will provide consumers with an important option for health coverage.” The letter was led by Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and signed by Sens. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), John Kennedy (R-La.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.). Full text of the letter: June 8, 2017 The Honorable Tom Price, M.D. Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Price: As the Trump Administration continues to work on repairing the damage caused by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), we must consider solutions that will increase consumer choice in the health care markets and, ultimately, decrease health care costs. We write to urge the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to reverse a regulation from the Obama Administration that inhibits consumers’ ability to choose a health insurance plan that is better for themselves or their families. Short-term, limited duration (STLD) insurance plans provide consumers with “valuable protection against out-of-pocket costs in case of unexpected injury or hospitalization.” STLD plans last less than 12 months and offer consumers a variety of medical benefits including physician and specialist visits, hospitalization, emergency treatment, and prescription drug discounts. These plans have offered great value to people, real protection, and broad provider networks. Although STLD plans do not meet ACA requirements for minimum essential coverage, making consumers of STLD plans potentially liable for tax penalties under the ACA, these products afford greater flexibility in the choice of health benefits than on-exchange plans. In fact, despite the tax penalty, thousands of consumers still purchased these short-term plans. Presumably these plans would be even more popular if they qualified for an exception to the individual mandate tax penalty. These plans are particularly attractive to people in between jobs, people who have missed Open Enrollment, and people who want to pay less for health insurance. According to eHealth, an online marketplace for health insurance, a consumer who has short-term coverage pays, on average, about one-third of what a consumer with major medical coverage pays per month. In addition, between 2015 and 2016, eHealth reported that average monthly short-term premiums “decreased 5% for individuals (from $116 to $110) and 2% for families (from $283 to $276).” STLD plans remained a viable health coverage option for consumers until an HHS regulation went into effect on April 1, 2017 that greatly restricted the use of these policies. The regulation decreased the maximum policy length of STLD plans from 364 days to 90 days. According to estimates, prior to April 1, at any given point, the market for short-term plans likely consisted of 650,000 to 850,000 enrollees with the average coverage duration lasting five to six months. This change could have serious consequences for the STLD market, particularly young and unemployed consumers of STLD products. According to the Wisconsin State Insurance Commissioner’s Office, “there are many plans sold to students studying in a foreign country [that] are regulated as short term plans. As a result, the . . . regulation would limit a student’s coverage in a foreign county to only three months. This creates a significant burden on these students and their families.” In addition, STLD plans serve as a cost-friendly alternative to COBRA continuation coverage for individuals who are in between jobs that offer employer-sponsored coverage. Commenters on the proposed rule noted that “some individuals who lose their employer-sponsored coverage may not be able to obtain COBRA continuation coverage and that a job search can often take longer than three months.” It appears that HHS ignored these consequences and, despite the popularity and usefulness of STLD plans, viewed short-term, limited coverage as a threat to the longevity of the ACA. In its regulation, HHS admitted as much, writing: “healthier individuals may be targeted for this type of [short-term] coverage, thus adversely impacting the risk pool for Affordable Care Act-compliant coverage.” Essentially, HHS has sought to eliminate a viable and useful health care alternative in order to force individuals to purchase ACA-compliant coverage in an attempt to prop up the failing ACA exchanges. As a result of this regulation, providers that once offered short-term plans may exit the market, leaving consumers in some locations with even fewer options for health insurance. Recently, Tokio Marine HCC – Medical Insurance Services Group announced that “it will no longer issue Short Term Medical policies because of new rules from the federal government that limits their duration to less than 90 days.” At a time when many states are on the brink of losing individual insurance carriers, it is urgent that consumers in those areas are provided with more, not fewer, health insurance options to choose from. This significant restriction of STLD plans is yet another example of the Obama Administration’s policies that inhibited consumer choice and harmed the market for health care products. On January 20, 2017, President Trump issued an Executive Order calling on the head of each department to “encourage the development of a free and open market in interstate commerce for the offering of healthcare services and health insurance, with the goal of achieving and preserving maximum options for patients and consumers.” This regulation is inconsistent with the President’s vision of greater choices for consumers and lower costs. Accordingly, we respectfully request that you promptly reverse this regulation to allow American consumers more economical and flexible options when it comes to finding the best health care coverage that meet their personal needs and those of their families. Acknowledging Americans’ freedom to avail themselves of these insurance plans is a step the Administration can take quickly to restore additional personal freedom and individual choice in health care markets. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, ###
06.08.2017	06.08.17 Rounds, Blumenthal Introduce Legislation to Provide Flexibility Regarding Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits for Family Members WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced bipartisan legislation to allow more flexibility in allocating Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to survivors of service members. The bipartisan Increasing Transferability of Entitlement to Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Act of 2017 would allow survivors of deceased service members, who had Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits transferred to them, to reallocate those benefits to other designated survivors. “The decision to serve our country in the military affects more than just the service member; their entire family makes sacrifices as well,” said Rounds. “Providing our military families with the flexibility to manage their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits after losing a loved one is but one small step we can take to show them our gratitude and appreciation. While our service men and women and their families can never be fully repaid for the sacrifices they make to defend our freedoms, the Increasing Transferability of Entitlement to Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Act is but one reform that can make their lives a little easier. I thank Senator Blumenthal for his leadership and I look forward to working with him to move this bill forward.” "Through their service and sacrifice, veterans have earned our full commitment to support them with effective education benefits that enable their swift success in the workplace,” said Blumenthal. “I'm proud to join with Senator Rounds to introduce the Increasing Transferability of Entitlement to Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Act of 2017 to ensure survivors of deceased service members will be able to fully obtain and reallocate the education benefits earned through their family members’ service and sacrifice for our country." Currently, if a service member transfers their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to his or her family while alive and subsequently passes away, no change in the number of months of the benefit amount allotted to each family member can be made. If the service member or veteran was still living, they could adjust the number of months allotted to each family member at will. Under the Increasing Transferability of Entitlement to Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Act, a survivor with a Post-9/11 GI Bill benefit would be authorized to determine if and how many months would be transferred to other designated survivors. This legislation will only impact those already designated to receive education benefits. No new transferees could be added. ###
06.08.2017	06.08.17 Support Grows for Rounds’ Legislation to Provide Relief to Community Banks & Credit Unions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today heard from a panel of community bank and credit union CEOs about the negative impact federal regulations are having on their ability to serve their customers. Specifically, the panel agreed that two of Rounds’ bills to provide regulatory relief to small-and-medium-sized banks, The Home Mortgage and Disclosure Adjustment Act (HMDA) and The TAILOR Act, would be beneficial to their consumers. Rounds to the panel: “You’re business people. You’re going to make money. You’re going to spend the money when it comes to regulatory requirements. But then you’re going to pass it on to somebody else, who is going to take that cost. And I think that is the part that sometimes gets lost, particularly on smaller banks.” Rounds asked the panel about HMDA, which he introduced this week with Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.). HMDA would provide relief by exempting community banks and credit unions from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) revised Regulation C final rule. Dorthy Savarese, Chairman, President & CEO, The Cape Cod Five Cents Savings Bank, said in response: “We set up priorities for major projects in the bank, and it sort-of makes me sad that on top of introducing basic banking checking accounts and some things that serve our consumers more effectively, that we have to have the HMDA preparation as a major initiative taking up time, technology, and taking it away from the things that we could do to server our customers.” Rounds also asked about The TAILOR Act, which he introduced earlier this year and would allow federal regulators to more precisely tailor the regulations they issue based on the risk profile of the institutions. When Rounds asked the panel about the effect The TAILOR Act would have on their consumers, the panel unanimously agreed it would be beneficial. John Bissel, President & CEO, Greylock Federal Credit Union, said: “I think scaling things appropriately makes sense.” Watch the full exchange here.
06.08.2017	06.08.17 Rounds, Heitkamp Introduce Bill to Provide Regulatory Relief for Community Financial Institutions WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), members of the Senate Banking Committee, introduced the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act. This bipartisan legislation would provide regulatory relief for community banks and credit unions by exempting them from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) revised Regulation C final rule, which amends the 1975 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). Additional cosponsors include Sens. John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), John Kennedy (R-La.) and Jon Tester (D-Mont.). “The costly, time-consuming regulations stemming from Dodd-Frank and the CFPB disproportionately hurt smaller financial institutions,” said Rounds. “Our legislation would exempt small community banks and credit unions from the revised HMDA rule, allowing them to spend more time and resources providing loans to hard-working families, rather than meeting burdensome, onerous paperwork requirements. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass HMDA and continuing to seek opportunities to work across the aisle to provide relief from the Dodd-Frank Act.” “As anyone from a small town can tell you, rural communities rely on trust they have with their neighbors to get the job done, that’s why it’s so important that small, local lenders can get back to the business of relationship lending,” said Heitkamp. “But focusing on relationship lending can be a challenge when small banks – like the community banks and credit unions in our own backyards – are saddled with new, complex regulations, many of which are designed for much larger institutions. By making sure hometown lenders providing less than 500 mortgages in a year aren’t subjected to a host of new regulatory reporting requirements, my bipartisan solution with Senator Rounds would help make sure our businesses and families – and our farming community in particular – can get the attention and service from their lenders they deserve.” HMDA was enacted in 1975. The act requires certain financial institutions to provide the public, and public officials, with mortgage data to determine if financial institutions are properly serving the communities in which they are located. Following the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, rulemaking authority for HMDA was transferred to the CFPB. The CFPB revised HMDA to require community banks and credit unions to collect nearly 50 unique data points on loan applications and share that information with the federal government. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act would raise the thresholds for the number of closed- and open-end loans a financial institution can originate before being subject to HMDA reporting requirements. This would allow more community financial institutions to be exempt from the HMDA rule. The bill would raise the number of closed-end loans financial institutions can originate to 500 per calendar year. It would also increase the exemption for open-end lines of credit to 500. ###
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of VA Accountability Legislation Bill would give VA Secretary the ability to make real reforms, improve the quality of care for veterans WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs’ Committee, today made the following statement on the Senate passage of the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. This bipartisan bill would reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by allowing the secretary to remove bad employees and protect whistleblowers from retaliation. Rounds is an original cosponsor of this legislation. “Today, the Senate took another step toward improving care for our nation’s veterans,” said Rounds. “The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act will hold bad VA employees accountable for inappropriate actions and allow whistleblowers necessary safeguards, while protecting the hardworking VA employees who remain dedicated to providing quality care to our veterans. I look forward to this legislation quickly passing the House of Representatives and getting it to the president’s desk so Secretary Shulkin can begin implementing these much-needed changes.” The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act increases the VA’s authority to fire employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and makes certain an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. It will also make it easier for the VA to remove poor performing senior executives and replace them with qualified candidates. Additionally, any appeals by senior VA executives would no longer be brought before the Merit Systems Protection Board, but instead would be handled directly by the VA secretary under an expedited timeline. The legislation also includes a number of other provisions to hold employees accountable, including: Requires the VA to evaluate supervisors based on the protection of whistleblowers; Incentivizes managers to address poor performance and misconduct among employees by requiring the VA secretary to include this as part of the annual performance plan; Prohibits bonuses for employees who have been found guilty of wrongdoing; and Prohibits relocation expenses to employees who abuse the system. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act is widely supported by key veterans stakeholders including the VA and U.S. House VA committee leadership. It has also won the support of numerous veterans advocacy groups that represent millions of veterans in the United States and key government accountability groups. ###
06.01.2017	06.01.17 Rounds Statement on President’s Decision to Exit Paris Climate Agreement WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to exit the Paris Climate Agreement: “The Paris Climate Agreement placed costly new energy restrictions on the United States, which would be passed on to consumers in the form of higher electricity prices,” said Rounds. “President Trump understands that we cannot put the U.S. at a competitive disadvantage with the rest of the world, thereby shackling our economy and raising electricity costs without even meeting the agreement’s goal of having a tangible effect on climate change. "In fact, under this agreement, major polluters like China, Russia, India and Iran are allowed to increase their greenhouse gas emissions, while our emissions reductions are estimated to cost 6.5 million American jobs and $3 trillion in economic output by 2040. Good energy policies include an ‘all of the above’ approach that will strengthen our economy, create jobs and enhance our energy independence. I am pleased with the president’s decision today to leave the misguided Paris Climate Agreement.” Earlier this year, Rounds wrote a weekly column about the misguided Paris Climate Agreement and, along with a number of his Senate colleagues, sent a letter to the president encouraging U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement. ###
05.24.2017	05.24.17 Rounds Introduces Legislation to Provide Tax Relief to Every South Dakota Family and Business Would Result in 16 Percent Tax Cut for the Average South Dakota Family WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced legislation that reduces the average South Dakota family’s tax burden by 16 percent. This is accomplished by a simple 2 percent rate cut in each tax bracket. “Throughout our history, when government regulations and taxes have been moderated, economic freedom and prosperity thrive,” said Rounds. “There is a direct correlation between government policies and the economy. In recent history, both President John F. Kennedy, a Democrat, and President Ronald Reagan, a Republican, governed during very turbulent economic times. Both initiated tax cuts that were followed by eras of economic growth and prosperity. It is time to repeat history. “Lowering the tax rate is but one step we can take to overhaul the tax code to provide direct, immediate relief to hardworking families and jolt our economy. Cutting taxes, coupled with reducing regulations, will allow our economy to heal from eight years of stagnant growth and once again prosper and flourish.” Text of Rounds’ legislation can be found below. Rounds’ op-ed on his tax relief legislation ran in the Argus Leader today. Read it HERE. ### Related Files Tax Plan.pdf
05.22.2017	05.22.17 Rounds, Hirono Introduce Legislation to Improve Career Opportunities for Returning Veterans WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced the Veterans To Enhance Studies Through (TEST) Accessibility Act to help returning veterans transition into civilian life. Under current law, veterans are required to use a full month of their Post-9/11 GI Bill eligibility to be reimbursed for licensing, certification and national tests, such as those required to be an athletic trainer, fire fighter or medical technician. The TEST Accessibility Act would address this issue by reimbursing veterans for the cost of an approved test and pro-rating the affected month of eligibility to be used for future educational expenses, such as tuition. “Our veterans have made incredible sacrifices for our country, and they should be able to fully use the benefits they’ve been promised when they enter into civilian life,” said Rounds. “Our bill will make sure vets aren’t forced to exhaust a full month of GI bill benefits for a low-cost test or certification in order to pursue a successful career in a competitive job market. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee to advance this legislation.” “Last year over 6,000 Hawaii students pursued their educational goals through the Post-9/11 GI Bill and many want to enter high-demand science, technology, engineering, and math careers which often require paying for various tests, professional licenses, and other credentials,” said Hirono. “As a cosponsor of the law creating the Post-9/11 GI Bill, I am proud to join Senator Rounds in introducing this commonsense bill to improve the way it reimburses these expenses for current and future generations of veterans and their families.” Companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Susan Brooks (R-Ind.) and Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.) earlier this year. It is supported by The American Legion and the Association of the United States Navy. ###
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Rounds Notes Importance of Trade for South Dakota Ag Products in Letter to U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to recently-confirmed U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to follow up on a recent meeting they held to discuss the importance of trade for South Dakota’s agricultural sector. “We are in clear agreement on the benefits of opening new markets for U.S. beef exports, lowering tariffs on American agricultural products and maintaining our relationships to countries within the North American Free-Trade Agreement (NAFTA),” wrote Rounds in the letter. “I appreciate your commitment to stand up for and promote the United States’ agricultural industry abroad.” Rounds and Lighthizer met prior to Lighthizer’s confirmation to be U.S. Trade Representative. Full text of the letter: May 17, 2017 Ambassador Robert Lighthizer Office of the United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Ambassador Lighthizer: Congratulations on your confirmation to serve as United States Trade Representative. I thank you for meeting with me earlier this month to discuss our shared goals of increasing trade opportunities for U.S. producers. Particularly, I thank you for taking the time to discuss the importance of trade to our agricultural sector. We are in clear agreement on the benefits of opening new markets for U.S. beef exports, lowering tariffs on American agricultural products and maintaining our relationships to countries within the North American Free-Trade Agreement (NAFTA). I appreciate your commitment to stand up for and promote the United States’ agricultural industry abroad. As we discussed, over the past four years, U.S. net farm income has fallen nearly 50 percent. Maintaining our current trade relationships and sending U.S. agriculture products into new markets is vital to help producers rebound from their losses. Mexico and Canada represent two of the largest export markets for U.S. agricultural products. In 2016, American farmers sent $20.5 billion worth of exports to Canada and $17.8 billion worth of exports to Mexico, which is the largest market for U.S. corn and soymeal, the second largest market for U.S. soybeans and the third largest market for U.S. beef. NAFTA eliminated all tariffs and quantitative restrictions on agricultural goods, and withdrawing from the agreement without a similar structure in place would cause significant harm to U.S. producers. If the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) would have been enacted, U.S. beef producers would have seen Japanese tariffs drop from 38.5 to 9 percent over a phase-in period. As you assume your position, I respectfully request that you work to lower tariffs and open new markets for U.S. agriculture products in Asia and Pacific Rim countries. This effort should include finalizing a trade agreement with China so American beef producers could gain access to the Chinese market. Again, congratulations on your confirmation as United States Trade Representative. I look forward to working with you. ###
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Rounds, Colleagues Request Farm Service Agency Loan Funding WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined a group of 28 Senators in a letter to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture urging them to support robust funding for the Farm Service Agency’s (FSA) loan programs. FSA provides direct loans and loan guarantees to help struggling family farmers start and maintain viable farming operations. “These loans are cost-efficient and work in tandem with private credit to serve farmers in need,” wrote the Senators. “Because of these loans, family farmers can get their crops in the ground and continue to serve their customers, even during tough economic times. Without FSA loans, these farmers would lack access to the operating capital that is necessary for any farm business to stay afloat.” “Any cut in FSA loan funding would cause great hardship for our nation’s farmers, and hit new, small, and other underserved farmers the hardest,” continued the Senators. “With agricultural economists predicting no end in the near future to depressed commodity prices and the resulting downturn in the overall farm economy, it is all the more important to ensure that our nation’s farmers have the capital they need to continue to invest in their businesses.” FSA loans aim to help small farms that cannot otherwise obtain favorable credit, including beginning farmers, women and minorities, and other disadvantaged borrowers. FSA’s loan programs include operating loans, which fund expenses such as livestock, equipment and seed, and ownership loans that help farmers develop land. Recent years have seen increased demand for FSA’s loan programs. In June 2016, hundreds of farmers whose loans had already been approved could not receive the funds due to a shortfall in funding for FSA operating loans. As a result, Congress was forced to pass an emergency appropriation in December of 2016 to address the shortfall. The letter has been endorsed by the American Farm Bureau Federation, National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition, National Farmers Union, Farm Credit Council, American Bankers Association, Independent Community Bankers of America and Opportunity Finance Network. The letter, led by Sen. Gary Peters (D-Mich.), was signed by Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Bob Casey (D-Penn.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Joe Manchin (D-W. Va.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). You can read the full letter below: Dear Chairs and Ranking Members: As you begin consideration of fiscal year 2018 appropriations legislation, we request that you support robust funding for the Farm Service Agency’s loan programs, particularly direct and guaranteed farm operating loans as well as farm ownership loans. We urge you to provide funding sufficient to fully meet loan demand from beginning, small, and other underserved farms that rely on FSA loans. In light of the President’s FY18 Budget request, which would reduce USDA funding by 21% and could endanger critical programs like FSA loans, we ask that you provide appropriations at or above FY17 levels and carefully consider the importance of these farm loan programs. As you know, the Farm Service Agency (FSA) provides direct loans and loan guarantees for beginning and small farms, along with established family farms, that are unable to secure adequate credit. These FSA loans serve the most disadvantaged farmers in our farm sector, including beginning, historically underserved, and veteran farmers, who depend on reliable credit to stay in business. FSA’s operating loan programs provide these farmers with direct loans up to $300,000, as well as loan guarantees up to $1.4 million, to fund annual operating expenses such as livestock, equipment, feed, seed, and fertilizer. Ownership loans help family farms afford land and refinance when they are struggling economically. These loans are cost-efficient and work in tandem with private credit to serve farmers in need. Because of these loans, family farmers can get their crops in the ground and continue to serve their customers, even during tough economic times. Without FSA loans, these farmers would lack access to the operating capital that is necessary for any farm business to stay afloat. The President’s FY18 Budget requests only $17.9 billion for USDA, a $4.7 billion or 21% decrease from the 2017 continuing resolution level. Although FSA has not yet released its FY18 budget request, program levels consistent with the Department’s overall reductions would significantly jeopardize FSA programs. Any cut in FSA loan funding would cause great hardship for our nation’s farmers, and hit new, small, and other underserved farmers the hardest. With agricultural economists predicting no end in the near future to depressed commodity prices and the resulting downturn in the overall farm economy, it is all the more important to ensure that our nation’s farmers have the capital they need to continue to invest in their businesses. FSA loan programs are already facing high demand from farmers whose incomes have declined in recent years, and program funding is already stretched thin. In June 2016, FSA operating loans faced a significant funding shortfall, and hundreds of farmers whose loans had already been approved could not receive the funds they needed until Congress passed emergency appropriations in December 2016. This shortfall in loan funding and the resulting backlog of farmers waiting for credit has become an all too common trend in recent years. Current projections indicate that FSA will also face FY17 shortfalls in farm operating and ownership loans and guarantees. Without sufficient and timely FSA loans, farmers in need will have no liquid funds, no ability to purchase equipment and other necessities for the planting season, and no choice but to curtail operations. Amounts below past totals or in line with the President’s FY18 Budget would undoubtedly and irreversibly harm our nation’s farmers, their families, and our communities. We therefore ask that you provide robust funding, at or above the levels in the Senate and House FY17 Agriculture Appropriations bills, to address expected 2018 loan demand and ensure that shortfalls do not occur in the operating loan programs and other FSA loan programs. Thank you for your consideration of these programs and your dedication to our nation’s farmers. ###
05.08.2017	05.08.17 Rounds Statement on Senate Confirmation of Dr. Heather Wilson to be Secretary of the Air Force WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today made the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Dr. Heather Wilson to serve as U.S. Secretary of the Air Force. Dr. Wilson has served as president of South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T) since June 2013. “I congratulate Dr. Wilson on her confirmation to be our next Secretary of the Air Force, and I look forward to working with her,” said Rounds. “Her experience as president of SDSM&T, U.S. Congresswoman and Air Force officer makes her uniquely qualified to take on this important new role. People who work with Dr. Wilson in South Dakota describe her as a great manager and inspiring leader, traits which will be beneficial to her as she transitions into the job of Air Force Secretary.” Dr. Wilson will be just the third female and first Air Force Academy graduate to serve as Secretary of the Air Force. Since 2013, Wilson has served as president of SDSM&T, a leading science and engineering school in the U.S. located in Rapid City. She represented New Mexico’s 1st district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1998 – 2009. Rounds supported Dr. Wilson's confirmation in the Senate Armed Services Committee, which had jurisdiction over her confirmation. ###
05.05.2017	05.05.17 Rounds, Hirono Introduce Legislation to Boost Exports from Veteran Small Businesses WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committees, introduced the Veteran Small Business Export Promotion Act to make permanent the U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA) current policy of waiving up-front fees for veterans applying for its Export Express, Export Working Capital and International Trade loans of $150,000 or less. The policy, which began in 2013 and has been renewed annually since, is currently set to expire on September 30, 2017. “The Veteran Small Business Export Promotion Act is a win for South Dakota veterans looking to start a small business when their service is up,” said Rounds. “Our bill would simultaneously help them transition to civilian life and promote entrepreneurship among our vets. Our men and women in uniform risk everything to protect our freedoms; this legislation is but one way we can thank them for their service.” “The over 11,000 strong veteran-owned business community in Hawaii plays an important role in our local economy and creating jobs,” said Hirono. “Veterans, including those transitioning to civilian life, often face a number of barriers to accessing the capital needed to start and grow a business which is why I am proud to introduce this bill to provide long-term fee relief on SBA loans while promoting Hawaii exports around the world.” The Veteran Small Business Export Promotion Act is also supported by the American Legion, National Small Business Association, Small Business Exporters Association, Independent Community Bankers Association, and the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions. Many banks do not offer working capital advances on export orders, export receivables, or letters of credit. As a result, small businesses, including veteran-owned businesses, often face barriers to accessing the necessary capital to support their export sales making SBA-guaranteed Export Express, Export Working Capital and International Trade loans key to encouraging lending and helping veteran entrepreneurs succeed in extremely competitive markets overseas. To help maintain the program at zero net cost to the U.S. government, the SBA assesses guarantee fees of up to 3 percent for loans up to $150,000, which have been waived annually since 2013. Since then, SBA’s Export Express, Export Working Capital and International Trade loans have helped support over 35,000 jobs nationally.
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Delegation Meets With New VA Secretary David Shulkin to Discuss Future of Hot Springs Facility WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, and John Thune (R-S.D.), and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today issued the following statements after meeting with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin, who told the delegation he is still reviewing the decision by the Obama administration to close the Hot Springs facility. Secretary Shulkin noted that clinical operations in Hot Springs will continue for the time being, and the VA is making progress in hiring employees for the new onsite call center. The VA will continue to plan for facility expansions in Rapid City while maintaining the residential rehabilitation treatment program in the Hot Springs domiciliary. “I thank Secretary Shulkin for agreeing to revisit the previous administration’s decision to close the Hot Springs campus and keep the facility open while it conducts a nationwide evaluation of all VA facilities,” said Rounds. “I support Secretary Shulkin’s goal of focusing on quality of care for veterans during this new evaluation. While the Hot Springs campus is no longer an immediate target, it is still in a larger pool of all VA facilities which could be reconfigured. But the decision will now be driven by quality of care, and the Hot Springs campus is one of only 17 VA facilities across the nation to receive a five-star rating for care. I also want to thank the Save the VA organization and the community of Hot Springs for their hard work and support of this facility. I look forward to continuing to work with them, my colleagues and Secretary Shulkin as we continue to seek ways to make sure the care of our veterans always comes first.” “I appreciate Secretary Shulkin’s willingness to meet with us and keep these lines of communication open,” said Thune. “Although he did not reverse his predecessor’s decision to realign services within the Black Hills, he demonstrated a sincere interest in looking at how to best provide the quality care our selfless veterans have earned through their service and sacrifice. I look forward to working with the secretary to ensure veteran care and safety are prioritized and encourage him to visit the Hot Springs campus before making further decisions.” “Veteran needs must drive any decision about Hot Springs,” said Noem. “From the first town hall I held in Hot Springs days after the VA first announced it would close the hospital, to the U.S. House VA Committee hearing held on site at my request, to the hundreds of one-on-one discussions, veterans have consistently stressed that Hot Springs is the Veterans’ Town and we’d like to keep it that way. I am grateful to Secretary Shulkin for giving us the opportunity to share what makes this facility so indispensable, but I strongly urge him to visit the campus before additional decisions are made.” Earlier this year, Thune, Rounds, and Noem met with outgoing VA Secretary Robert McDonald who told the delegation the VA would close a large portion of the Hot Springs facility. Secretary McDonald’s decision came after a December 2016 meeting with the delegation during which they encouraged McDonald to thoroughly consider the input he received from veterans, staff, and other community stakeholders. McDonald visited the Hot Springs facility late last year. ###
05.01.2017	05.01.17 Rounds Cosponsors Marketplace Fairness Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Small Business Committee, is an original cosponsor of the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2017. This legislation would give states the right to collect the sales and use taxes they are owed under current law from out-of-state businesses or online retailers. “The Marketplace Fairness Act allows us to collect sales taxes from internet sellers just like retailers collect sales taxes on Main Street,” said Rounds. “Brick and mortar stores are the businesses that provide good-paying jobs to South Dakotans, pay local property taxes, sponsor community baseball leagues, send their kids and grandkids to South Dakota schools and invest in the future of our state. We have an opportunity to level the playing field for them. Sales taxes pay for the education of our kids and in order to keep rates low, we need as broad of a base as possible to keep it fair.” The Marketplace Fairness Act of 2017 would grant states the right to require that out-of-state businesses, such as those selling online or through catalogs, collect state sales taxes on purchases sold into their states. Currently, states are unable to collect these taxes on purchases from remote businesses so the tax is often not paid. This sales tax loophole treats out-of-state retailers different than local brick-and-mortar businesses, creating a price disadvantage. This legislation was introduced by Sens. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Dick Durban (D-Ill.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.). It was cosponsored by Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Edward Markey (D-Mass.) and Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.). ###
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Rounds Welcomes Trump’s Prioritization of Veterans’ Care WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today welcomed President Trump’s executive order to establish the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The executive order appoints a special assistant to serve as executive director of the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within 45 days of the signing of the order. “I thank President Trump for taking steps to bring accountability and oversight at the VA,” said Rounds. “For too long, our veterans haven’t been receiving the quality care they deserve due to decades of mismanagement by Washington bureaucrats at the VA. Establishing the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within the VA will help the agency identify and weed out bad actors and mismanagement. I look forward to continuing to work with other members of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, VA Secretary David Shulkin and stakeholders across South Dakota to bring further accountability to the agency.” ###
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Rounds Chairs First SASC Cyber Subcommittee Open Hearing WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, today chaired the first open hearing of the SASC Subcommittee on Cybersecurity. The hearing focused on cyber-enabled information operations to include the gathering and dissemination of information in the cyber domain. “Disinformation and ‘fake news’ pose a unique national security challenge for any society that values freedom of speech and a free press," Rounds said in his opening remarks. "Our adversaries aim to leverage our distaste for censorship against us to delegitimize our democracy, influence our public discourse, and ultimately undermine our national security and confidence. It is imperative that we use our experience with the 2016 election to create the defenses necessary to detect and respond to future efforts." Opening remarks as prepared for delivery: The Cybersecurity Subcommittee meets today to receive testimony on cyber-enabled information operations to include the gathering and dissemination of information in the cyber domain. We are fortunate to be joined this afternoon by an expert panel of witnesses: Chris Inglis, the former Deputy Director of the National Security Agency; Michael Lumpkin, a Principal at Neptune Computer Incorporated and the former Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Policy; Rand Waltzman, Senior Information Scientist at RAND Corporation; and Clint Watts, the Robert A. Fox fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute. At the conclusion of my remarks and those of Senator Nelson, we will hear briefly from each of our witnesses. I ask our witnesses to limit their opening statements to five minutes in order to provide maximum time for member questions. The subcommittee has conducted two classified briefings on cyber threats and deterrence of those threats. The purpose of those briefings was to help our new subcommittee analyze the current situation to include the threat as well as our own strengths and weaknesses. The briefings included discussion of the report of the Defense Science Board’s Task Force on Cyber Deterrence. Today, in our first open forum, we will further discuss threat capabilities, specifically those of Russia, to use new tools to obtain and disseminate information in this new domain of conflict. Russian information operations, like those we experienced during the 2016 election and currently ongoing in Europe, are not new. Many nation-states, in one form or another, seeks to shape outcomes – whether they be elections or public opinion – to their national security advantage. In particular, the Soviet Union conducted decades of disinformation operations against the United States and our allies. However, today’s cyber and other disinformation-related tools have enabled Russia to achieve operational capabilities unimaginable to its Soviet forbear. Our hearing today is not intended to debate the outcome of the 2016 election, which experts agree was not undermined by any cyber-attacks on our voting infrastructure or the counting of ballots. The purpose of today’s hearing is to learn from that experience and other such experiences in order to assess how information operations are enhanced in terms of the reach, speed, agility, precision and impact through cyberspace. Ultimately, we will continue to struggle with cyber-enhanced information operation campaigns until we address the policy and strategy deficiencies that undermine our overall cyber posture. In other words my hope is that this hearing be forward, not backward looking and help lay the foundation for the legislation and oversight necessary to address this national security threat. Disinformation and “fake news” pose a unique national security challenge for any society that values freedom of speech and a free press. Our adversaries aim to leverage our distaste for censorship against us to delegitimize our democracy, influence our public discourse, and ultimately undermine our national security and confidence. It is imperative that we use our experience with the 2016 election to create the defenses necessary to detect and respond to future efforts. We look to our witnesses to help us better understand the threats we face and develop the tools we need to address it. Just last month we heard from the Defense Science Board about the urgent need for cyber deterrence. According to the Board’s findings “for at least the next decade, the offensive cyber capabilities of our most capable adversaries are likely to far exceed the United States’ ability to defend key critical infrastructures.” Our ability to defend against cyber-enabled information operations will also likely require an element of deterrence and demonstrating that actions will have consequences. With that in mind, we look to our witnesses to help us better understand the challenges cyber enabled information operations will pose for us in the future and what they believe will be required to counter this threat. Information operations are not new and have been used in one form or another in nearly every conflict throughout history. Cyberspace has and will continue to enhance the scope and reach of these campaigns. Our ability to develop a strategy to deter and repel cyber enabled operations is critical. Our citizens’ confidence in our democratic process depends on it. ###
04.24.2017	04.24.17 Rounds Appointee Jonah Nelson Accepted to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Jonah Nelson of Sioux Falls was nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point by Senator Mike Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Washington High School student Jonah Nelson has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which he intends to accept. Nelson, the son of Layne and Jennifer Nelson of Sioux Falls, received a nomination to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point from Rounds. “I congratulate Jonah on his offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” said Rounds. “Jonah excels academically and clearly cares about his community and country, both of which are important traits for students at our nation’s service academies. It was an honor to nominate Jonah and I wish him all the best.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
04.24.2017	04.24.17 Rounds Announces New Staff Hire in Sioux Falls Office WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced the addition of Kyle Chase to his South Dakota staff. Chase will serve as a special assistant focusing on outreach, constituent services and tribal relations. “Kyle is a lifelong South Dakotan who will be a tremendous asset to our team,” said Rounds. “I am particularly excited for him to continue our work with tribal members as we continue to seek solutions to the unique circumstances they face. He will be an excellent addition to our efforts to fix ongoing problems with tribal housing, consultation, the IHS and others, to name a few.” Originally from Mobridge, Chase previously served as a policy analyst for the South Dakota Department of Tribal Relations. He earned his B.S. in history and education from South Dakota State University and his J.D. from the University of South Dakota School of Law. He is an enrolled member of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe. ###
04.21.2017	04.21.17 Rounds Appointee Accepted to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Zachariah Markel of Watertown was nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point by Senator Mike Rounds WATERTOWN—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Watertown High School student Zachariah Markel has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which he intends to accept. Markel, the son of Robert L. and Carol Ann Markel of Watertown, received a nomination to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point from Rounds. “I congratulate Zachariah on his offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” said Rounds. “It is clear that Zachariah cares deeply about giving back to his community and his country, both of which are important traits for students at our nation’s service academies. It was an honor to nominate Zachariah and I wish him all the best.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
04.12.2017	04.12.17 Rounds, Hirono Introduce Bill to Support Military Families, Quality of Life and Retention WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii), members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced a bipartisan bill to codify in law the provisions of the Department of Defense regulation that directs military finance offices to reimburse service members for off-base housing expenses during long-term temporary duty. “Our service members and their families make incredible sacrifices to keep us safe,” said Rounds. “They shouldn’t be faced with unnecessary stress or financial burdens when a service member is on a temporary assignment that could last for months. Our legislation would make sure no active duty service member would be denied reimbursements for off-base housing expenses when they are on long-term temporary duty. It is but one small step we can take to improve the quality of life for the men and women who are selflessly defending our country. This measure will support service members and their families serving at Ellsworth Air Force Base and Joe Foss Field as well as South Dakotans serving in our armed forces around the world.” “Military members and Department of Defense civilians should not have to worry about potential financial burdens and red tape related to travel away from home,” said Hirono. “This commonsense legislation will continue to allow Department of Defense employees in Hawaii and around the world to do their jobs without jumping through unnecessary hoops.” An example would be a service member stationed at Ellsworth Air Force Base who has to go to a six-month training course somewhere else. By giving the service member the option, at no greater cost to the government, of staying off base, he or she would be able to take family members along. The bill supports military families, their quality of life and retention of these highly valued service members. The genesis of the bill was a recent reinterpretation of the regulation by the Air Force to deny the option of staying off-base. Reps. Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.) and Walter Jones (R-N.C.) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Rounds, Manchin Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Give Purple Heart Recipients Full Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced legislation to add Purple Heart recipients to the list of eligible veterans who can access full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). It also includes a provision to make Purple Heart recipients eligible to participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program, which is an optional program for universities to provide additional funding to veterans if their Post-9/11 GI Bill does not fully cover education costs. The VA is required to match the university’s contribution. “It is our job to make sure veterans who have selflessly served our country are equipped with the education benefits necessary to prosper when transitioning to civilian life,” said Rounds. “Purple Heart recipients have made incredible sacrifices, and deserve to have full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits, regardless of the amount of time they served on active duty. I’m pleased to introduce this legislation today, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance it in the Senate.” “True patriotism is what drives men and women every day to serve in our military, even though that service comes with the risk of bodily harm,” said Manchin. “The fact that a technicality prevents some Purple Heart recipients from receiving full education benefits is a tragedy that is long overdue to be fixed. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation is an important step in fulfilling our obligation to those who have borne the battle.” Currently, only veterans who served on active duty for 36 months or were medically discharged after at least 30 continuous days on active duty are eligible for full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits. A child or spouse of a veteran who died in the line of duty on active duty are also eligible for full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits. Currently, a service member may be injured in the line of duty while serving in a combat capacity for less than 36 months of active duty, earn a Purple Heart and not receive full Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits. This legislation would make sure they receive full Post-9/11 Bill GI benefits. H.R. 1379 was originally introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA-52), and passed out of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs on March 8, 2017. ###
04.05.2017	04.05.17 Rounds Speaks in Support of Judge Neil Gorsuch to Be Confirmed to Supreme Court **video available** WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of Judge Neil Gorsuch to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. “Throughout his career, Judge Gorsuch has proven time and again that he is exceptionally qualified to serve on the Supreme Court,” said Rounds in his floor speech. “The knowledge and careful deliberation he will bring to the court will result in rulings that reflect justice, fairness, and an interpretation of what the law is and what Congress intended it to be, not what administrative agencies want it to be.” Remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to offer my strong support for Judge Neil Gorsuch, President Trump’s pick to replace Justice Scalia on the Supreme Court. On Monday, his nomination passed out of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and we expect to confirm him before the end of the week. I am tremendously excited to have him on the bench. Throughout his career, Judge Gorsuch has proven time and again that he is exceptionally qualified to serve on the Supreme Court. He has been praised and endorsed by members of both sides of the political spectrum: the left and the right. As a judge on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals since 2006 after being unanimously confirmed by this body, Judge Gorsuch has proven he is as mainstream as they come. In fact, of the 800-plus opinions he has written for the 10th Circuit, less than two percent, or 14 opinions, have drawn dissents from his colleagues. In other words, 98 percent of his opinions have been unanimous. That is even more remarkable when you look at the makeup of the 10th circuit: 12 of the judges were appointed by Democrat presidents, while only 5 were appointed by Republicans. Mr. President, it doesn’t get much more mainstream than that. During his confirmation hearings last month, Judge Gorsuch again proved that he is eminently qualified to serve on the bench of our nation’s highest court. Let me share some of his quotes from his hearing: “The Constitution doesn’t change. The world around us changes.” “I don’t believe in litmus tests for judges.” “If I'm confirmed, I will do all my powers permit to be a faithful servant to the Constitution and laws of this great nation.” And one last quote: “As a judge now for more than a decade, I've watched my colleagues spend long days worrying over cases. Sometimes the answers we reach aren't the ones we personally prefer. Sometimes the answers follow us home at night and keep us up. But the answers we reach are always the ones we believe the law requires. And for all its imperfections, I believe that the rule of law in this nation truly is a wonder. And that it's no wonder that it's the envy of the world.” Mr. President, it is clear that Judge Gorsuch is qualified to serve on the Supreme Court and that he understands the role of a judge: to interpret the law, not to make the law. To that end, I also would like to highlight Judge Gorsuch’s in-depth understanding of the separation of powers doctrine and am optimistic that Judge Gorsuch will carefully scrutinize cases and controversies that involve executive overreach. The past eight years have seen an unprecedented expansion of the administrative state. This has come at the expense of both the legislative branch, whose purpose is to make laws, and the judicial branch, whose purpose is to interpret the law and decide on a specific law’s Constitutionality. But more concerning than that, it has also come at the expense of American citizens. Overreach by executive agencies has led to regulatory expansion that results in the federal government involving itself in nearly every facet of our lives today. This expansion has been permitted, in-part, to U.S. courts relying on the flawed Chevron doctrine to show great deference to agency interpretation of the laws passed by Congress. As a result, agencies have been able to broadly interpret laws in a way that has allowed them to expand their regulatory authority far beyond what Congress ever intended. Fortunately, U.S. judges are beginning to question the Chevron doctrine and its impact on the separation of powers doctrine relied on by our Founding Fathers and affirmed in the U.S. Constitution. Judge Gorsuch is one of these judges. Regarding Chevron, Judge Gorsuch has written that Chevron seems to be no less than a judge-made doctrine for the abdication of the judicial duty that prevents American courts from fulfilling their Constitutionally-delegated duty – interpreting what the law actually intends. Careful judicial scrutiny and interpretation of the law will allow courts to reign in agency actions that are inconsistent with the law and beyond the bounds of what Congress intended. In his concurrence in Gutierrez-Brizuela v. Lynch, Gorsuch argues that the Administrative Procedure Act vests in the courts the responsibility to “interpret statutory provisions and overturn agency action inconsistent with those provisions,” and questions the idea that Congress “intended to delegate away its legislative power to executive agencies.” Judge Gorsuch takes his duty as a judge with the utmost seriousness. He seeks to interpret the law the way Congress intended, not in the way that an executive agency wants it to be. His careful and academic approach to judicial review is well-suited for our nation’s highest court. I am confident that Judge Gorsuch will respect and enforce the Constitutionally-affirmed separation of powers doctrine that in recent years has been diluted by executive agencies broadly interpreting laws, resulting in regulatory overreach. This has minimized the role of Congress in the legislative process. As a result, the voices of American citizens has also been minimized and replaced with unelected Washington bureaucrats who think they know what is best for all Americans. Judge Gorsuch is one of the finest judges our nation has to offer. The knowledge and careful deliberation he will bring to the court will result in rulings that reflect justice, fairness, and an interpretation of what the law is and what Congress intended it to be, not what administrative agencies want it to be. Despite impeccable credentials, we are in a situation today because of a precedent set in November 2013 by then-Majority Leader Harry Reid and his conference. Former Leader Reid’s use of the so-called “nuclear option” in 2013 meant the Senate could reinterpret its rules via simple majority vote. Former Leader Reid accomplished this by challenging a ruling of the chair with regard to the number of votes needed to end debate on certain nominations. The Standing Rules of the Senate require the support of a supermajority, or 67 percent of senators, to change the rules. To challenge the ruling of the chair, Reid only needed a majority vote to overturn the presiding officer’s correct interpretation of the written rule. In other words, Former Leader Reid broke the rules to change the rules, taking highly unusual actions for which there is now precedent. Based on this new precedent set by Former Leader Reid, the Senate is likely to confirm Judge Gorsuch to the Supreme Court by a simple majority vote. Because the Senate has always operated on precedent, we will likely follow this new precedent to approve Judge Gorsuch’s nomination later this week. When he is confirmed, Judge Gorsuch will make a tremendous addition to the Supreme Court. His lifetime of defending the Constitution and applying the law as it was written provides clear evidence that he has the aptitude for this lifetime appointment to our nation’s highest court. Thank you Mr. President, I yield the floor. VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o3cxq_pBu-w&feature=youtu.be ###
04.05.2017	04.05.17 Rounds, Warner Reintroduce Legislation to Provide Financial Stability to Muni Bonds Allows high quality municipal debt to be classified at a level equivalent to debt issued by corporations WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens .Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Mark R. Warner (D-Va.), members of the Senate Banking Committee, today reintroduced bipartisan legislation to allow high quality municipal debt to be classified at a level equivalent to debt issued by corporations. Debt sold by state and local governments is currently excluded from consideration under a rule requiring banks to hold enough high quality liquid assets to fund their operations for 30 days. This exclusion may create a disincentive for banks to hold their positions in the municipal-debt market, potentially making it harder for state and local governments to issue bonds to fund infrastructure projects. “Access to capital is critical for South Dakota communities looking to finance important infrastructure projects like bridges and roads,” said Rounds. “Our bipartisan legislation would allow banks to count high-quality, investment-grade municipal debt as level 2B High Quality Liquid Assets under federal banking regulations. Doing so will help maintain a healthy demand for this debt and prevent borrowing rates for municipalities from dramatically increasing.” “As a former governor, I know firsthand how critical it is for states and municipalities to issue bonds that fund their basic operations, including the construction of schools, roads, and local projects,” said Warner. “We must ensure a continued and reliable access to capital markets for our local governments, and this legislation represents a compromise that achieves that while appropriately balancing concerns for the long term stability of our financial system.” Under proposed rules issued by federal banking regulators, debt sold by states and localities isn’t eligible to count as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), which means they won’t qualify as assets necessary for banks to retain under new funding requirements issued following the financial crisis. These requirements ensure that banks maintain a liquidity coverage ratio that includes holding a certain amount of HQLA, but prohibits munis from being considered as HQLA. The rules effectively cabin off an entire category of high quality and highly liquid debt from being considered as HQLA, limiting the incentive for financial institutions to hold these assets and potentially adversely affecting the issuance of such debt by states and municipalities. The Federal Reserve recently weighed in on the issue, making limited changes to their previously issued rule. However, the two other regulators involved—the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp—have made no changes to allow the institutions they regulate to count municipal bonds toward their liquidity buffers. The Rounds-Warner bill would categorize certain types of municipal debt as level 2B, on par with certain corporate debt, and would receive a 50 percent equivalent to the liquidity ratio requirement. This action would bring municipal bond debt on par with corporate debt, and help stabilize the municipal securities market. In addition to Rounds and Warner, the legislation is cosponsored by fellow Senate Banking Committee Members Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), John Kennedy (R-La.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.). The legislation was previously introduced in the 114th Congress. ###
03.31.2017	03.31.17 Rounds Cosponsors Bill to Increase Benefits for Veterans Bipartisan bill would boost veterans’ disability compensation, accommodate for cost-of-living adjustment WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, cosponsored the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation to increase veterans’ disability benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The bill was introduced by U.S. Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Jon Tester (D-Mont.), chairman and ranking member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, respectively, and cosponsored by every member of the committee. “Our nation’s veterans selflessly committed to defend our freedoms,” said Rounds. “With costs rising on everything from groceries to healthcare, our vets and their families deserve to have their compensation and benefits adjusted accordingly.” The Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017 would increase the rates of VA disability compensation, dependency compensation for surviving children and spouses, as well as the clothing allowance for veterans based on rising costs of living. This cost-of-living adjustment, which would be equal to the amount of the adjustment given to Social Security recipients, is determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index on a yearly basis. The cost-of-living adjustment for veterans would go into effect on Dec. 1, 2017. ###
03.30.2017	03.30.17 Rounds joins Thune in Introducing Dr. Heather Wilson at SASC Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) today joined Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) in introducing Dr. Heather Wilson at her confirmation hearing to be Secretary of the Air Force. Dr. Wilson has been president of South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T) since 2013. Watch Rounds' reemarks by clicking here. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. Chairman it is my honor to join Senator Thune in supporting Dr. Heather Wilson’s nomination to be the next Secretary of the Air Force. Senator Thune talked about her record of achievement throughout her life. I have known Dr. Wilson, as a leader in South Dakota during the most recent segment of her long and distinguished professional life. She served in an outstanding fashion as president of one of the most highly rated engineering and science universities in the country for the quality of its education and the success of its graduates- the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. This school’s success is exemplified by the average starting salaries of its graduates which is higher than the corresponding figures for graduates of Harvard University, Yale University or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology At a time when our nation faces the skyrocketing cost of a college degree, tuition and fees for an out of state student at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology is less than $15,000 a year, making it one of the best returns on investment for a college education in America. Dr. Wilson became president of the School of Mines in the summer of 2013. She has been a great leader, and, if confirmed to be the next Secretary of the Air Force, she will leave some big shoes to be filled by her successor. Under her leadership, the School of Mines added new programs, expanded research, raised funds to build and refurbish buildings, started an honors program, and deepened the connections between the school and the community. People who work with her in South Dakota describe her as a great manager and inspiring leader, and a tireless advocate for the school and her students. A few years ago, Forbes Magazine had a story on the toughest leadership roles in America. “We revere the skills of prominent CEOs, perhaps more than we should,” said the Forbes article. “But there’s an underappreciated form of leadership that requires far more skill than being a CEO does. It’s the job of a university president.” Dr. Wilson brought such leadership and skill to her position as president of one of the finest science and engineering schools in the nation. General Mattis knows her quality. This explains the multiple requests he made to her to leave a position she finds deeply rewarding and at which she excels, to accept the president’s nomination to be Secretary of the Air Force. South Dakota’s loss will be the nation’s gain. I look forward to this hearing today and to the prompt confirmation of Dr. Wilson as the next Secretary of the Air Force. I thank her for the honor of introducing her today. ###
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Rounds’ RESPECT Act Legislation Passes Indian Affairs Committee Unanimously WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after his Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions Encouraging Conciliation with Tribes (RESPECT) Act passed out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee with unanimous support: “I thank Chairman John Hoeven and the members of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee for unanimously passing the RESPECT Act today,” said Rounds. “The RESPECT Act would repeal a number of outdated federal laws that are discriminatory toward Native Americans. It is long past time to remove these offensive laws from our books. Now that it has passed out of committee, I’m hopeful it will pass the full Senate soon.” The RESPECT Act was first introduced during the 114th Congress, where it passed out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee unanimously. Due to time constraints on the Senate Calendar, it was not able to be voted on by the full Senate in 2016. Rounds reintroduced it last month. The RESPECT Act is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association and is cosponsored by Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.). ###
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Rounds Announces Promotion of Tyler Tordsen to Southeast Regional Director WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced the promotion of Tyler Tordsen to Southeast Regional Director. Tordsen has spent the last two years working in Rounds’ Pierre office as a special assistant, focusing on outreach, tribal relations, constituent services and local governments. “Tyler has been a tremendous asset to our team since the day he started,” said Rounds. “A lifelong South Dakotan, his strategic vision and passion for helping others have played a vital role in our constituent outreach and legislative efforts. I have no doubt he will continue to build on these strengths as Southeast Regional Director.” Tordsen was born in Sioux Falls, raised in Rapid City and is a member of the Sisseton Wahpeton Sioux Tribe. He earned his B.S. in economics and political science from the University of South Dakota, where he served as Student Body President and President of the Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity. Tordsen will now be based in Rounds’ Sioux Falls office, located at: 320 N. Main Street, Suite A Sioux Falls, SD 57104 (605) 336-0486
03.28.2017	03.28.17 SASC Cyber Subcommittee Chairman Mike Rounds Hosts Informal Meeting with Israeli Directorate WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today hosted an informal meeting between members of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) and members of the Israel National Cyber Directorate, including Director Dr. Eviatar Matania. “Israel is at the forefront of cyber technology, and I am grateful Dr. Matania was able to join us today to discuss cyber threats,” said Rounds. “During our meetings, we had a healthy discussion about where the U.S. and Israel can expand our strong relationship to further our collective national security goals as it relates to cybersecurity.”
03.28.2017	03.28.17 Rounds Statement on Executive Order to Roll Back Clean Power Plan Regulations WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee and Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today made the following statement on President Trump’s executive order to limit the Clean Power Plan rule. “Over the past eight years, American innovation, job creation and economic growth have been smothered by heavy-handed federal regulations imposed by unelected bureaucrats,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased that the new administration is taking swift action to undo a number of overly burdensome regulations, including the Clean Power Plan, which was halted by the Supreme Court last year after more than two dozen states filed petitions to stop its implementation. We all want clean air and water, but it is possible to achieve that goal without imposing costly regulations on American businesses.” The executive order will direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to suspend, revise or rescind four actions related to the Clean Power Plan that would stifle the American energy industry, allowing the EPA to focus on its primary mission of protecting our air and water. The executive order does the following: Calls for an immediate re-evaluation of the Clean Power Plan; Lifts the ban on federal leasing for coal production; Lifts restrictions on the production of oil, natural gas, clean coal and shale energy; and Empowers states and local units of government to decide what is best for their communities. ###
03.28.2017	03.28.17 Rounds, Donnelly Reintroduce Legislation to Protect Veteran Credit Scores Bipartisan legislation would protect veterans harmed by delayed VA payments to health providers WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation that would protect the credit ratings of veterans wrongly penalized by medical bill payment delays by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “When veterans receive care in the community, they shouldn’t have to worry about a delayed payment from the VA negatively impacting their credit score,” said Rounds. “Our legislation would make sure that veterans are protected from medical debt wrongfully charged to them instead of the VA. It also creates a simple dispute process to correct the veteran’s credit history.” “Veterans should be able to access quality health care without worrying that delayed payments from the VA will hurt their credit scores,” said Donnelly. “This bipartisan legislation would protect veterans from credit damage that can make it harder to get a job, buy a house, or rent an apartment. The men and women who have put their lives on the line for our country deserve nothing less.” The Protecting Veterans Credit Act would prohibit medical debt from services received through the Choice Program and other VA community care programs from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This delay provides adequate time for the VA and its contractors to resolve the issues. The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act would also allow veterans to dispute and remove adverse actions already on their reports. In addition to the support of the Consumer Federation of America and the National Consumer Law Center (on behalf of its low-income clients), several veterans advocacy organizations have expressed their support for the legislation including the American Legion, the Vietnam Veterans of America, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Paralyzed Veterans of America. Charles E. Schmidt, National Commander, The American Legion said, “The American Legion supports the Protecting Veterans Credit Act which will help ensure that our veterans’ credit scores are not harmed by Department of Veterans Affairs delays in payment of medical bills incurred under the Choice Program. Presently, some veterans’ credit is being adversely affected when they seek care outside the VA system and receive bills from civilian medical providers that are not paid by the VA in a timely manner. Every veteran should be able to seek high quality responsive health care services without worrying it will lead to financial ruin. We thank Senator Donnelly and Senator Rounds for introducing this important legislation.” Carlos Fuentes, Director of National Legislative Service, Veterans of Foreign Wars said, “In addition to experiencing long wait times and issues making appointments through the Veterans Choice Program, veterans are also getting billed inappropriately for services when the VA fails to pay health care providers in a timely fashion. The delayed payment of medical bills, which should be covered by VA benefits, can create financial hardship for veterans and damage credit scores. The Protecting Veterans Credit Act prohibits medical debt from medical services received through the Veterans Choice Program and other similar VA community care programs from being reported to credit reporting agencies for one year. This would allow time for payment issues to be resolved without impacting veterans’ credit scores.” ###
03.24.2017	03.24.17 Rounds Speaks on Senate Floor on 7th Anniversary of Obamacare WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) yesterday spoke on the Senate floor on the 7th anniversary of Obamacare being signed into law by then-President Barack Obama. Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, on its 7th anniversary of being signed into law by our previous president, Barack Obama. Looking back on what has happened to health care over the past seven years, there isn’t a whole lot of good news to report: Since that time, Americans have been hit with hundreds of billions in new taxes, health care costs have risen exponentially and families have struggled with fewer options and reduced access to health care services. Just in the last year, health insurance premiums have gone up 25 percent for the typical Obamacare plan. That number is even higher in my home state of South Dakota, where premiums have increased 37 percent. Obamacare has also driven health insurance companies to completely leave the marketplace, leaving Americans with fewer insurance options. Again I will use my own state as an example: under Obamacare, the number of companies offering insurance in the individual market in South Dakota has dropped from 13 to a mere 2 today. While this is unfortunate, we are better off than folks in Alaska, Alabama, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Wyoming – who have no options at all as only one insurer offers plans on the exchange. This is also the case for more than 1000 counties across the nation – a third of all counties in total. As a result of these skyrocketing costs and reduced options, the number of Americans enrolling in Obamacare continues to drop dramatically. Projections continue to be millions fewer than predicted. Between 2016 and 2017, nearly half-a-million fewer Americans signed up for the exchange. All of this has barely moved on the number of uninsured South Dakotans between 2010, when Obamacare was enacted, and today. So the health insurance market was crippled, premiums have skyrocketed for hard-working families and our economy has suffered tremendously under the ACA – only to have the same number of insured and uninsured individuals in my home state as before we started. Nationwide, Americans are rejecting Obamacare in record numbers. We saw this rejection of Obamacare repeatedly over the past seven years when the American people elected into office candidates who – at least in part – ran on the platform of repealing Obamacare. And our economy has suffered tremendously. Obamacare’s higher taxes, fees and penalties on businesses and investors have taken a toll. Meanwhile, consumers - who are facing Obamacare’s higher premiums and deductibles - have less to spend on goods and services. With one-sixth of our economy tied to health care, this has been detrimental to growth and opportunity. It has also been easy to see how the health care industry has rejected Obamacare over the past seven years, with many insurers pulling out of the market, and in other places the markets collapsing all together. This limits competition and leaves little room for innovation in the health care industry, which is why Obamacare is failing to control the cost of health care in America. Cost control is a crucial component of providing truly affordable health care, and that begins with the elimination of Obamacare’s added bureaucracy and paperwork. We must get government out of the way and allow the competitive market to work. And that is what we are seeking to do with Obamacare’s replacement, which is expected to receive a vote in the House later today. Since we started the process of repealing and replacing Obamacare, my office has received a number of calls and emails from South Dakotans who expressed concerns. I want to make clear to them and to all Americans that during the period in which we transition away from Obamacare and toward a more affordable, competitive system, we understand that continuation of coverage is an essential component. And we will include: guaranteed renewal of coverage; portability of coverage for those who change jobs or leave the work force by retiring; a ban on lifetime limits, because if you bought insurance, you shouldn’t run out of insurance; the provisions of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. no exclusions on pre-existing conditions if you maintain insurance from policy to policy without lapses, and provisions to allow children to remain on their families’ plans until the age of 26. We understand that there is a way to retain all of these positive provisions, which are vital to assuring continued health insurance coverage for all American families who want it, while also providing a fair and open marketplace that provides for strong, healthy competition. This, in turn, will bring affordable, efficient health insurance with innovative products that will actually help control the cost of care. And that is what the GOP alternative –while still far from perfect – is seeking to do. One thing we do know: the end result will be better than Obamacare. Mr. President, as a father and grandfather, I understand how important it is to have access to affordable health care. No one should be priced out of health care coverage for their families. But our current system isn’t working. After seven years of Obamacare, the American people are dealing with higher health care premiums, fewer options, more taxes and reduced access to care. And health providers are struggling with more bureaucracy; more time spent filling out paperwork, instead of caring for patients, frustrated by the Obamacare’s crippling new regulations. As I’ve said time and time again, Obamacare is a rapidly sinking ship and there is no hope for recovery. On its seventh anniversary, it is hurting more people than it is helping and must be repealed and replaced before it totally crumbles under its own weight. Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ###
03.21.2017	03.21.17 Rounds Introduces Bill to Strengthen Congressional Insight and Accountability on Federal Regulations WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced legislation to strengthen congressional insight and accountability within the regulatory process. The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) Insight, Reform and Accountability Act of 2017 would give OIRA statutory authority to conduct reviews of regulations by codifying into law executive orders establishing such authority, authority that cannot be rescinded or limited by future presidencies. Additionally, it would expand the role of OIRA in the regulatory process and authorize OIRA to review rules proposed by certain independent federal agencies. “Overregulation is a hidden tax that is stifling economic growth and productivity in America,” said Rounds. “Even more concerning, the regulations coming out of Washington are being promulgated by unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats, rather than our elected representatives. The OIRA Insight, Reform and Accountability Act would bring to light more rules being promulgated by independent agencies and give a stronger voice to state, local and tribal governments in challenging the rules before they are finalized. . We believe these measures will increase transparency and help protect South Dakota families from duplicative, unnecessary and overly-burdensome federal regulations.” The OIRA Insight, Reform and Accountability Act was introduced by Rep. Paul Mitchell (R-Mich.) earlier this year and passed the House on March 1, 2017. Other provisions of The OIRA Insight, Reform and Accountability Act: Extends the requirement for regulatory review to independent agencies. Requires that OIRA issue reports on its reviews of legal requirements. Requires OIRA to gather input from state, local and tribal governments and the public on the effects of regulations and opportunities for improving the process. Requires OIRA to convene a working group, consisting of the OIRA Administrator, agency representatives and other officials designated by the Administrator, to serve as a forum to identify and analyze regulatory issues. Requires the administrator provide agency-wide advice and guidance on best practices to develop regulations. Requires OIRA to publish a Unified Agenda twice a year detailing all regulatory actions under development or review. OIRA must also issue guidance to create clear definitions of status and any other term as appropriate. Requires that agencies annually submit to OIRA the significant regulatory actions planned for the following fiscal year. The plans will also list regulations identified as unnecessary, duplicative or burdensome and describe the agency’s efforts to review existing regulations—all of which will be subject to OIRA review. Requires OIRA make publicly available all information provided by the agency, the result of OIRA’s review, and a red-line of changes made during the review. ###
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Rounds Appointee Accepted to U.S. Naval Academy Brooke Fraasch was nominated to the United States Naval Academy by Senator Mike Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Milbank High School student Brooke Fraasch has been offered an appointment to the United States Naval Academy, which she intends to accept. Fraasch, the daughter of Wayde and Amber Fraasch of Milbank, received a nomination to the U.S. Naval Academy from Rounds. “I congratulate Brooke on her offer of appointment to the United States Naval Academy,” said Rounds. “Our nation’s service academies only offer appointments to the best and brightest students, and it’s clear that Brooke has the leadership skills, strong character and dedication to academic excellence that the Naval Academy is known for. It was an honor to nominate Brooke and I wish her all the best.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
03.09.2017	03.09.17 Rounds, Kaine Introduce Bipartisan DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services’ Committee Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, and Tim Kaine (D-Va.) today introduced a bill to strengthen the cybersecurity workforce that is critical to addressing the United States’ growing cyber challenges. The DoD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 would reinvigorate and modify an existing DoD scholarship program for students pursuing degrees in cybersecurity fields. This bill would authorize the DoD’s scholarship fund to receive $10 million for FY 2018 and would expand scholarships to students pursuing associate’s degrees at several community colleges. “As our reliance on technology in everyday life continues to grow, so does our threat of cyber-attacks which could significantly disrupt our economy and weaken our national security,” said Rounds. “This expanding threat underscores the need to recruit and train cybersecurity professionals. In particular, our national shortage of these experts impacts the Defense Department’s ability to accomplish its cyber missions. Our legislation strengthens a proven cybersecurity scholarship program that has amply benefited students in South Dakota and nationwide as they embarked on cybersecurity careers in support of our national security.” “A well-trained and highly skilled cyber workforce is essential to addressing the United States’ growing cybersecurity challenges,” Kaine said. “There are good-paying jobs in Virginia and across the country in the cyber field that are going unfilled, and it’s clear we must make it easier for students to access the programs that prepare them for these roles. Expanding scholarship funds so they're available to community college students is a commonsense change that will help put more of Virginia’s students on a path to success and support our national security needs.” The bill would require that at least 5 percent of scholarship funds go to 2-year program students who attend institutions designated by the NSA and DHS as Centers of Academic Excellence, such as Dakota State University in Madison. The bill would also make competitive grants available to eligible schools for developing cybersecurity academic programs. ###
03.03.2017	03.03.17 Upholding our Responsibility to our Native Population Our tribal population is amidst a government-induced health care crisis as a result of decades of mismanagement and poor leadership at the Indian Health Service (IHS). In South Dakota and across the country, IHS facilities consistently fail to meet basic benchmarks of providing proper care to Native Americans. Headlines frequently tell the tale of emergency rooms closing down, lack of adequate health care professionals and blatant corruption among IHS administrative employees. Too often, my staff hears horror stories of dirty or broken medical equipment, poor record-keeping, and in one case, a woman who gave birth to her baby on a bathroom floor with no nurses or doctors around to help her. This is unacceptable. The first step toward fixing the crisis is understanding where the problems lie within the IHS itself. I recently introduced legislation requiring a full audit of the IHS. Despite the agency’s well-known and well-documented history of failing the people it is meant to serve, there has never been an independent, broad, thorough review of IHS. I have requested a systemic review of the agency’s structural, financial and administrative problems so that the federal government, working in close consultation with tribes, can make the changes necessary to live up to its trust obligations. IHS is tasked with providing health care for approximately 2.2 million American Indians and Alaska Natives across the country. But one does not have to look beyond the agency’s own website to see that it is failing in its core mission. According to www.ihs.gov, tribal members continue to die at higher rates than other Americans in a number of categories, including liver disease and cirrhosis, diabetes, suicide and respiratory diseases. In the Great Plains Area, which includes South Dakota, Native Americans have a life expectancy 10 years less than the U.S. population. Why this is happening can be found – at least in part – in the structure and culture of IHS itself. For example, my office has uncovered an alarming imbalance of staff: of more than 15,000 total IHS employees, only 725 are doctors. More than 10,000 IHS employees are administrative professionals – with nearly 4,000 dedicated to billing alone. Additionally, there is no financial accountability or even a formula for how to allocate funding among the 12 IHS regional offices. IHS officials themselves can’t explain their own budget. This is particularly troubling in places like the Great Plains Region, which has one of the worst health disparities of all IHS regions despite being one of the largest and fastest-growing populations. Even if IHS is underfunded, we cannot responsibly spend more taxpayer dollars on this broken agency without increased transparency and financial accountability. My legislation would allow us to fully understand the dysfunction at the agency so we can take the necessary steps to fix it. It is supported by the Great Plains Area Tribal Chairmen, officials within the Department of Health and Human Services, the South Dakota Association of Healthcare Organizations and, most recently, the South Dakota legislature, which passed a resolution in support of an IHS audit earlier this year. Our ultimate goal is for the federal government to live up to its trust obligations of providing timely, quality care to our tribal members. IHS will never be able to accomplish this without broad reforms. But first we need to understand where the problems lie. In the meantime, I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress, tribal leadership, IHS administrators, Health and Human Services officials and others to identify key areas of reform and identify potential solutions to provide better health care to our tribal members. ###
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Rounds to Army Corps: South Dakotans Want Assurances that Flood Control is your Number One Priority Press Contact WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today at a hearing pressed the Army Corps for answers on what the agency is doing to address concerns about potential flooding along the Missouri River. Rounds said: “I think more than anything else is – since flood control is the number one priority along there – that if we’re up into the exclusive flood storage position…that you&rsq
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Rounds Cosponsors Concealed Carry Reciprocity Bill WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced he is an original cosponsor of the Constitutional Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, legislation to allow individuals with concealed carry privileges in their home state to exercise those rights in any other state that also has concealed carry laws, while abiding by that state’s laws. “As an avid hunter and lifelong gun owner, I have always been a strong defender of the Second Amendment,” said Rounds. “This legislation will strengthen the fundamental right of individuals to bear arms as embedded in the Constitution while protecting states’ abilities to enact reasonable concealed carry restrictions. Under this bill, law-abiding gun owners will be able to travel across state lines with their concealed carry permit, weapon and appropriate identification as long as they are not otherwise prohibited from carrying a concealed weapon.” The bill was introduced by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and is cosponsored by U.S. Sens. John Barasso (R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) and Todd Young (R-Ind.). ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Rounds Statement on President's Address to Congress WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s address to Congress. “I share President Trump’s desire to renew America’s spirit of optimism,” said Rounds. “For too long, Washington has failed to focus on the important issues: reducing our debt, reforming the tax code, achieving a truly affordable, sustainable health care system, strengthening our military and growing our economy so all American families have the opportunity to achieve their version of the American Dream. President Trump outlined an aggressive agenda to achieve these and other important goals that will unshackle our country from the heavy hand of government and set our economy free to grow and prosper. Additionally, he paid proper tribute to our law enforcement men and women in uniform who work tirelessly to keep us safe. “I was particularly excited to hear him talk about what we want our country to look like in the year 2026, the year our country will turn 250 years old. I believe in this vision for this landmark birthday, and the important issues we must work on now so that we can look back with great pride on all we have accomplished and all we can pass onto our children and grandkids. I look forward to working with the president, my colleagues in Congress and all necessary stakeholders to achieve our shared vision of a freer country with a less intrusive government that allows all Americans to pursue their dreams and goals for generations to come.” ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Rounds Praises Trump’s Action to Undo WOTUS WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today praised President Trump’s executive order that will begin to undo the Obama administration’s overreaching Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule. The executive order will require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps to review the WOTUS rule to make certain it promotes economic growth and minimizes regulatory uncertainty. It also requires agencies to rescind or revise aspects of WOTUS that are incompatible with this new policy guidance. “If implemented, the WOTUS rule would be one of the largest federal land grabs in the history of our country,” said Rounds. “It would give the Army Corps and the EPA control of nearly all water, including man-made water management systems, farm ponds, drainage ditches and any other water that the EPA decides has a ‘significant nexus’ to downstream water. Under WOTUS, farmers, ranchers and landowners would be forced to spend hours filling out burdensome paperwork to get permits from the EPA and Army Corps just to conduct normal agricultural activities or spray for weeds along our county roads. I applaud President Trump for taking steps to undo this unnecessary, misguided overreach.” ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Rounds Introduces Bill to Audit Indian Health Service WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced legislation to provide for a comprehensive audit of the Indian Health Service (IHS). This bill would require the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to use existing funds to contract with an independent firm to assess the state of IHS. “The inadequate care being delivered at IHS facilities across the country has reached crisis level,” said Rounds. “It is a serious issue that requires tangible solutions. An outside audit of the failing agency – which has never been done before despite its ongoing problems – will help us better understand where the problems lie so that the federal government, working in close collaboration with the tribes, can take steps forward to fix them. Only after identifying specific areas of concerns through the audit can we make the necessary changes to fulfill the federal government’s trust responsibility of delivering timely, adequate health care to tribal members.” Rounds then sent a letter to the Inspector General of HHS in July 2016, requesting an audit of the financial aspects of hospital and health care, medical services and overall financial management at IHS. HHS was only able to fulfill a portion of the audit request submitted by Rounds. Rounds’ request for a comprehensive audit of IHS is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association, which passed a resolution in 2016 calling upon Congress to demand an audit of IHS. Earlier this year, the South Dakota State Legislature passed a resolution urging Congress to audit IHS. ### Related Files 115th IHS Audit Bill.pdf IHS One Pager.pdf
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Rounds Speaks on Senate Floor in Support of EPA Nominee Scott Pruitt WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, who is President Trump’s nominee to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Pruitt’s confirmation was advanced out of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, on which Rounds serves. His confirmation vote is scheduled for 1:00 p.m. ET tomorrow, Feb. 17, 2017. “General Pruitt’s legal background and experience with the EPA regulatory process makes him well-suited to lead the agency,” said Rounds in his speech. “He has an in-depth understanding of the impact regulations have on landowners, American businesses and state and local governments. As Attorney General, Mr. Pruitt has been a leader in standing up for the rights of state governments in the face of an aggressive EPA that has imposed increasingly costly and burdensome regulations on the states.” Text of Rounds’ remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss President Trump’s nominee to be Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt. General Pruitt’s legal background and experience with the EPA regulatory process makes him well-suited to lead the agency. He has an in-depth understanding of the impact regulations have on landowners, American businesses and state and local governments. As Attorney General, Mr. Pruitt has been a leader in standing up for the rights of state governments in the face of an aggressive EPA that has imposed increasingly costly and burdensome regulations on the states. During his time as Attorney General, Pruitt established Oklahoma’s first Federalism Unit in the Office of Solicitor General to more effectively combat unwarranted regulation and overreach by federal agencies. General Pruitt is a strong believer in federalism and states’ rights – which have been often overlooked by the previous administration, often to the detriment of the U.S. economy and environment. I am hopeful General Pruitt will take steps to improve the federal regulatory process to make certain federal regulations are promulgated with adequate public participation, underpinned by the best scientific evidence available and in a transparent and open manner. General Pruitt understands the importance of taking stakeholder, state and local government comments and expertise into account when promulgating regulations. He understands that listening to and considering the different viewpoints of stakeholders will improve the regulatory process and lead to better regulations. This will lead to fewer burdensome and costly regulations for South Dakota farmers, ranchers and landowners while at the same time making certain we have clean air and clean water. The Obama EPA’s process for considering scientific information was flawed and unbalanced. There is a lack of balanced opinion, geographic diversity and state, local and tribal representation on EPA’s Science Advisory Board - which is tasked with providing scientific advice to EPA. General Pruitt understands the importance of relying on the most up-to-date science to underpin environmental regulations. During his confirmation hearing, he affirmed to me that he would uphold its obligations to use the most current, accurate data and sound science when making decisions, specifically when it comes to the Renewable Fuel Standard. The RFS has been successful in South Dakota encouraging investments and creating jobs in corn ethanol production. Mr. Pruitt understands the importance of corn ethanol to the Midwest. Throughout his tenure as Attorney General, General Pruitt witnessed first-hand the negative impact that EPA regulations, such as the Waters of the US rule, have on U.S. landowners and business owners. He saw how incomplete economic analysis did not account for the full impact of regulations on U.S. citizens and the regulatory burden was often far greater than what EPA claimed it would be. Attorney General can modernize the EPA’s approach to regulation and make certain that regulations are promulgated in a deliberate, fair and transparent process. A better regulatory process will lead to better regulations. Better regulations will make certain our air, water and land is protected, our economy grows, and American jobs are created. Attorney General Pruitt has had a rigorous vetting process since first being nominated by President Trump. He has answered more than 1,200 questions from Senators – more than 1,000 more questions than nominees for EPA Administrator from the incoming Obama, Bush and Clinton Administrations. Additionally, his confirmation hearing was the longest for any EPA administrator. I’d like to thank Chairman Barrasso for spearheading this fair and transparent confirmation process. I’d also like to thank Attorney General Pruitt for taking the time to answer all of the questions that were asked to him and meeting with Senators both on and off the EPW Committee. General Pruitt’s impressive background and depth of knowledge on EPA issues make him well-suited to be EPA Administrator. As a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee which has oversight of the EPA, I look forward to his eventual confirmation and to working with him in the future. Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ###
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Rounds Meets with SDSM&T’s Dr. Heather Wilson, President Trump’s Pick to Serve as Air Force Secretary WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today met with Dr. Heather Wilson, President Trump’s nominee to be Secretary of the Air Force. Dr. Wilson has served as president of South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T) since June 2013. At the time of Dr. Wilson’s nomination announcement last month, Rounds said: “I congratulate Dr. Wilson for being nominated to lead the Air Force. While I am selfishly disappointed she won’t be continuing to serve SDSM&T, our state’s loss is our country’s gain. Her experience as president of SDSM&T, U.S. Congresswoman and Air Force officer make her uniquely qualified for this important leadership position. I look forward to continuing to work with Dr. Wilson in this new role.” The Senate Armed Services Committee has jurisdiction over Dr. Wilson’s confirmation. If confirmed, Wilson will be just the third female and first Air Force Academy graduate to serve as Secretary of the Air Force. Since 2013, Wilson has served as president of SDSM&T, a leading science and engineering school in the U.S. located in Rapid City. She represented New Mexico’s 1st district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1998 – 2009. ###
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Sens. Rounds, Thune Reintroduce Bill to Strengthen Military Families’ Right to Self-Protection WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today reintroduced legislation to allow military spouses to purchase handguns in the state where their husband or wife is permanently stationed for duty, or in a neighboring state if the military spouse commutes across state borders to their duty installation. Companion legislation to the Protect Our Military Families’ 2nd Amendment Rights Act was introduced last month by Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-Tex.) in the House of Representatives. “Our military personnel and their families make incredible sacrifices to keep our country safe; allowing them to keep their families safe is the least we can do,” said Rounds. “Our legislation makes certain that the Second Amendment rights of military spouses are protected when they are stationed away from home.” “Our military families shouldn’t have to compromise their Second Amendment rights when their loved ones answer the call to serve,” said Thune. “They undertake significant burdens, like manning the home front during deployments, taking new jobs, frequent moves, and placing kids in new schools, but personal safety and security should never be among the sacrifices made by those who protect our rights and freedoms. The least we can do for our military families is to provide them with the opportunity for the protection they deserve.” Current law restricts citizens from legally purchasing a handgun in any state other than the one in which they reside. An exception to this law was made for active duty service members who are on permanent duty station orders, so that they can be considered a resident of the state in which they are assigned. The Protect Our Military Families’ 2nd Amendment Rights Act extends that exemption to their spouses as well. Additional cosponsors include Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), James Lankford (R-Okla.) and Marco Rubio (R-Fla). ###
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Rounds Pays Tribute to Clint Roberts on Senate Floor WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered a floor speech to honor the life and legacy of his friend, former U.S. Rep. Clint Roberts, who passed away on Feb. 13th at the age of 82. In addition to serving in the U.S. House of Representatives, Roberts served in the South Dakota State Senate and as South Dakota’s Secretary of Agriculture. “Clint was a mentor and a hero to me and many others and – I’m proud to say – lifelong friend to me and Jean,” said Rounds on the senate floor. “He had a tremendously positive impact on the many thousands of people he met and touched with his kindness, selflessness and generosity. South Dakota is a better state and we are a better people because of his hard work and dedication.” Remarks as prepared for delivery: “I rise today to commemorate the life and legacy of Clint Roberts, who passed away in the early morning hours of February 13th at the age of 82. Clint is a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives, the South Dakota State Senate, and a former South Dakota Secretary of Agriculture. He helped give birth to the Conservation Reserve and Conservation Reserve Enhancement programs, which have been extremely beneficial to farmers, ranchers and landowners not only in South Dakota but across the country. These programs helped increase farm and ranch family incomes at a time of great economic turmoil. But more importantly, Clint was a mentor and a hero to me and many others and – I’m proud to say – lifelong friend to me and Jean. I have always looked up to Clint and sought him out for advice. I first met Clint when I was an intern in the South Dakota State Senate in 1976, when he was serving in a leadership position. He taught me many valuable lessons over the years – about politics, policy, family and public service – just to name a few. He also is credited with introducing me to that exquisite combination of water and scotch over 40 years ago at The Kings Inn in Pierre. Clint grew up on a ranch near Presho in Lyman County and never let go of his cowboy roots. He was an iconic symbol of the cowboy and the Wild West. So much so, he was one of the finalists to be the “Marlboro Man” in the mid-1970s. He also appeared in minor roles in films and even a Super Bowl commercial. But even off-camera, he was a cowboy through-and-through. He was down-to-earth, a straight-shooter, and a practical conservative who believed in freedom and helping those in need. He was also a problem-solver who fixed what was wrong instead of just talking about it. He was one of the true conservationists in South Dakota – promoting wildlife and conservation on his operating farm and ranch. He taught many the importance of the CRP program and preserving our natural resources. During hunting season, he always opened his ranch to hunters and loved making his “secret” recipe for chili for all to enjoy. But, most of all, he understood the importance of family; he was a great husband to Bev, and a great father, grandfather and great-grandfather. And, he was a great friend to all who knew him. He had a tremendously positive impact on the many thousands of people he met and touched with his kindness, selflessness and generosity. South Dakota is a better state and we are a better people because of his hard work and dedication to making it better. With this, I welcome the opportunity to recognize and commemorate the life of this public servant and my friend, Clint Roberts. We will treasure his legacy for years to come.” ###
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Rounds Introduces Legislation to Dismantle CFPB WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today announced he introduced legislation to dismantle the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) by eliminating its funding stream from the Federal Reserve. “A product of the ill-advised Dodd-Frank Reform Act, the CFPB is an unaccountable regulatory agency ran by unelected bureaucrats with no oversight from Congress,” said Rounds. “No unchecked federal agency should have the power to dramatically alter the financial choices of consumers through the rules it promulgates. Dismantling the CFPB is but one step we can take to ease the regulatory burdens of Dodd-Frank, the cost of which continues to be handed down to American families. I look forward to working with my colleagues to roll back the CFPB’s power and prevent the agency from imposing any further harmful regulations.” Rounds’ legislation amends the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to bar the transfer of funds from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to the CFPB. The bill also requires the CFPB to turn over all penalty funding and other money it has received to the Treasury of the United States. Text of the bill can be found below. Related Files CFPB.pdf
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Rounds Reintroduces Bill to Ease Regulatory Burden on Local Banks & Credit Unions WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today reintroduced the Taking Account of Institutions with Low Operation Risk (TAILOR) Act, a bill to require federal regulatory agencies to take risk profiles and business models of institutions into account when crafting regulations. “Financial institutions across South Dakota have been negatively impacted by burdensome, unnecessary regulations because of disproportionate compliance costs since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010,” said Rounds. “Excessive costs and regulatory hurdles continue to hurt consumers the most. The TAILOR Act would ease the regulatory burden on smaller financial institutions so they can focus their resources on taking care of their customers, rather than spending time and money on compliance, the costs of which are ultimately passed onto the consumer in South Dakota. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this important legislation so our smaller financial institutions are better able to meet the needs of families and local businesses.” “South Dakota is home to some of the smallest and the largest banks in the world, with wide variations in their business models,” said Curt Everson, President of the South Dakota Bankers Association. “Bankers from those institutions agree that today’s one-size-fits-all regulatory scheme doesn’t make sense. We applaud Senator Rounds for introducing the TAILOR Act to start the conversation about matching bank regulation to risk.” The TAILOR Act would require regulatory agencies, such as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to take into consideration the risk profile and business models of individual financial institutions and tailor those regulations accordingly. Additionally, the bill requires the regulatory agencies to provide an annual report to Congress outlining the steps they have taken to tailor their regulations. The TAILOR Act also requires regulators to conduct a review of all the regulations issued by the agencies since the 2010 passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. If the review finds that the regulations issued since 2010 do not conform to the TAILOR Act, the agency would be required to revise the regulations. ###
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Rounds Statement on Meeting With Sonny Perdue WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after his meeting with former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue, who President Trump recently nominated to be Secretary of Agriculture: “I thank Governor Perdue for taking the time to meet with me today to discuss the importance of agriculture,” said Rounds. “During our meeting, we discussed the importance of maintaining the vital crop insurance program, increasing trade opportunities and seeking ways to strengthen our ag economy, which has seen a hit in recent years. Sonny shares my belief that one of the best ways we can help our farmers and ranchers is to reduce burdensome regulations that prevent them from getting their products to market, whether they come from the financial industry, the EPA or another federal agency. I look forward to supporting his nomination and working with him to strengthen ag markets and rural economies across the country.”
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Rounds to Chair EPW Regulatory Oversight Subcommittee Again in 115th Congress WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), today announced that he will serve as Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight for the 115th Congress. Rounds previously served as the Chairman of this subcommittee during the 114th Congress. “I am honored to have the opportunity to continue chairing this important subcommittee and build upon the work we accomplished in the 114th Congress,” said Rounds. “I look forward to working with the members of the subcommittee and EPW Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) to advance meaningful regulatory reform. We will also oversee the rulemaking processes at agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to make sure they are using sound science and taking into account economic and local concerns when issuing any new rules.” The Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight has jurisdiction over: Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), Superfund and Brownfields, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), including recycling, Federal Facilities and interstate waste, Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA), Chemical Safety Board, Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs), Environmental Justice, Risk Assessment, and responsibility for oversight of agencies, departments, and programs within the jurisdiction of the full committee, including oversight of environmental research and development, and for conducting investigations within such jurisdiction. ###
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Rounds Joins Colleagues in Urging Administration to Pursue a Tough Russia Policy WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined Sens. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Todd Young (R-Indiana), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) in sending a letter to President Trump urging his administration to pursue a principled and tough-minded Russia policy, highlighting Russia's aggressive behavior in Ukraine, Syria and cyberspace. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We write to ask you to pursue a results-oriented, but tough-minded and principled policy toward the Russian Federation. Russia’s cooperation is desirable, and in some cases essential, to global initiatives such as nuclear arms control, counter-terrorism, drug trafficking, or promoting global health. We should maintain active and ongoing dialogue with Russia on these and others areas of mutual interests, as every U.S. President has done since the end of the Cold War. However, while we should seek common ground with Russia in the areas of mutual interest, we must never pursue cooperation with Russia at the expense of our fundamental interests of defending our allies and promoting our values. The United States should unequivocally condemn – and take proactive steps to stem – the continued Russian aggression in Ukraine. Russia has invaded Ukraine and illegally annexed the Crimean peninsula, in violation of international law, and has directly abetted the so-called “separatist rebels” in eastern Ukraine. Since 2014, over 10,000 Ukrainians have died in this tragic conflict, and there are as many as 1.5 million internally displaced persons because of the violence. The most recent escalation of fighting along the “line of contact” in eastern Ukraine should serve as a reminder of Russia’s nefarious intentions. The Administration should maintain the current U.S. sanctions regime against Russia and Russian entities – and to impose new sanctions as necessary and merited by Russian behavior –unless Ukraine’s control over Crimea is restored, Russia fully respects the Minsk agreements, and ceases all efforts to undermine Ukraine’s sovereignty. Furthermore, we ask you to expedite the provision of defensive lethal weapons to Ukraine, and we were encouraged that Secretary of State Tillerson supported this position during his confirmation hearing. The United States should not enter into any military or diplomatic agreement with Russia regarding Syria’s future until Moscow halts its military operations that have caused immense damage and human suffering and ceases support for the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad. It is plainly evident that despite Russian claims to the contrary, Moscow’s main goal is not the defeat of the Islamic State, but the preservation of the Assad regime at any cost. According to the Pentagon’s spokesman, as of February 3, 2016, only 10 percent of Russian airstrikes were against Islamic State targets. However, according to an estimate released by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights on December 31, 2016, at least 4,700 civilians died in Syria due to Russian shelling, including the targeting of schools and hospitals. The U.S. must condemn these Russian atrocities and condition any future negotiations regarding Syria’s future on Russian compliance with international norms and basic human rights. Furthermore, we must recognize and counter the active cyber and information warfare Russia is conducting against the United States and Western democracies, including attempted interference in our democratic elections process. According to the 2016 Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community: “Russian cyber operations are likely to target US interests to support several strategic objectives: intelligence gathering to support Russian decision-making in the Ukraine and Syrian crises, influence operations to support military and political objectives, and continuing preparation of the cyber environment for future contingencies.” The United States must have a firm response to this belligerent behavior from Moscow, which should include diplomatic actions, economic consequences, as well as a strengthened military posture in Europe. Most importantly, we urge you to relay to Moscow that the values of democracy, human rights, transparency, and accountability are central to U.S. foreign policy, that these values are non-negotiable, and that the United States will continue to advance these values globally, including with regard to Russia. President Putin must know that the United States remains a beacon of hope and democracy around the world, and will stand up for what is right. Mr. President, we look forward to your reply and maintaining an open, ongoing, and respectful dialogue with you regarding U.S.-Russia relations. Sincerely, ###
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Rounds: Jeff Sessions Will Make Certain That Justice is Done for all Americans “I support Senator Sessions as Attorney General of the United States not only because his experience makes him qualified to serve, but more importantly because his character makes him qualified to serve.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) to be Attorney General. Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hG08WvAZ6Xg&feature=youtu.be Full remarks as prepared for delivery: “ I rise today regarding the upcoming confirmation vote on Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama to be Attorney General of the United States. For the past two years, I have had the great pleasure of working with Senator Sessions in this body. We serve together on both the Senate Armed Services and Environment and Public Works Committees. Within those committees as well as other issues that have come before the Senate during that time period, I have found Senator Sessions to be extremely forthright, hardworking and honest. He has served Alabamans and all Americans well during his 20 years in the Senate. In addition to serving on the Armed Services and EPW Committees, he also serves on the Senate Judiciary and Budget Committees, all of which address vital aspects of our federal system. Senator Sessions also had a distinguished career before he was elected Senator from Alabama. After graduating from the University of Alabama with a law degree, Senator Sessions practiced law in Russellville and Mobile, Alabama. In 1975, he took the oath to defend the constitution of the United States as an Assistant United States Attorney – the first step in a long and honorable career as a prosecutor. In 1981, Senator Sessions was nominated by President Reagan – and confirmed by the United States Senate – as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama. He served honorably in that role for 12 years. Senator Sessions was then elected Alabama Attorney General and served in that role until his election to the United States Senate. Mr/Madam President – it is clear to me that Senator Sessions is exceptionally – and perhaps uniquely – qualified to serve as Attorney General of the United States. He has served as a line prosecutor and – as U.S. Attorney and Alabama Attorney General – as the chief federal and state law enforcement authority. He has personally handled or managed a wide variety of cases – criminal and civil; trial and appellate. Senator Sessions also has extensive experience in the federal system and – as a former state attorney general – deep respect for state and local law enforcement and the role of states in our federal system. But there is an attribute even more important than experience: Integrity. Senator Sessions has, over the course of his career, demonstrated a deep respect for the Constitution and the rule of law. And ultimately, that is what is most important in an Attorney General of the United States. In 1935 the United States Supreme Court wrote this about the role of a United States Attorney – and I think it applies similarly to the Attorney General: A federal prosecutor “is the representative not of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is as compelling as its obligation to govern at all. And whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice be done.” The Supreme Court continued, “[a]s such, he is in a peculiar and very definite sense the servant of the law, the twofold aim of which is that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer.” I support Senator Sessions as Attorney General of the United States not only because his experience makes him qualified to serve, but more importantly because his character makes him qualified to serve. Senator Sessions will, in the words of the Supreme Court, be a “servant of the law” and will make certain that justice is done for all Americans.” ###
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Rounds Reintroduces RESPECT Act in 115th Congress Bill would repeal antiquated, hostile laws directed toward Native Americans WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today reintroduced the Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions Encouraging Conciliation with Tribes (RESPECT) Act. The RESPECT Act would repeal several outdated, offensive federal laws against Native Americans, including laws that allow for the forced removal of Native American children from their homes to be sent to boarding schools and laws subjecting Native Americans to forced labor. “The laws that would be repealed under the RESPECT Act are a sad reminder of the hostile aggression and overt racism displayed by the early federal government toward Native Americans,” said Rounds. “The idea that these laws were ever considered is disturbing, but the fact that they remain part of our legal code today is, at best, an oversight. Though we can’t rewrite the past, we can work towards mending relations and furthering respect for future generations. The RESPECT Act is one way to show healing, understanding and progress. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass RESPECT during this session of Congress.” Rounds introduced the RESPECT Act during the 114th Congress, where it passed out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee unanimously. Due to time constraints on the Senate Calendar, it was not able to be voted on by the full Senate in 2016. The RESPECT Act is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association and is cosponsored by Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.). ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 President Approves South Dakota Disaster Declaration WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) issued the following statements after President Trump approved South Dakota Gov. Dennis Daugaard’s request for a major disaster declaration for 24 counties and two tribal governments in South Dakota. The federal disaster assistance will help communities recover from strong winter thunderstorms and a subsequent blizzard that resulted in flooding, significant snow and ice accumulations, and high-velocity straight-line winds across the state. Three people lost their lives as a result of the winter storm. “A number of South Dakota communities suffered significant losses during recent thunderstorms and blizzards,” said Rounds. “President Trump’s disaster declaration will help these communities which suffered losses to be eligible for federal assistance as they work to rebuild.” “I want to thank President Trump for taking quick action so these communities across South Dakota can continue the hard work of rebuilding their cities and towns,” said Thune. “Now that this declaration has been approved, I hope folks can have greater peace of mind knowing that more help is on the way.” “South Dakotans are resilient, but disasters like this can threaten a family’s financial security,” said Noem. “President Trump’s swift actions will help make sure South Dakota communities get the help they need to rebuild from a devastating winter storm.” The affected counties include Butte, Clark, Codington, Day, Deuel, Dewey, Edmunds, Fall River, Faulk, Grant, Haakon, Hamlin, Harding, Jackson, Jones, Marshall, McPherson, Meade, Pennington, Perkins, Roberts, Stanley, Sully, and Ziebach. The disaster declaration also covers the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe in Dewey and Ziebach Counties and the Oglala Sioux Tribe in Jackson County. On January 25, the delegation wrote to President Trump and encouraged him to quickly approve Gov. Daugaard’s request. On January 31, the delegation sent another letter to the president with respect to a similar request from Sisseton Wahpeton Oyate Chairman David Flute. The president has not yet made a determination on that request. ###
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Rounds Questions VA Nominee Dr. David Shulkin on Future of Hot Springs During Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today questioned Dr. David Shulkin, nominee to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on the future of the VA facility in Hot Springs, SD. “At the Black Hills VA System in Hot Springs, SD, there are a host of individuals there who have—since that town was created—served veterans at in-treatment facilities,” said Rounds during the hearing. “They’ve also made it very clear that they want to continue that. In fact, they’re one of your five-star facilities in the United States…In our meeting the other day, you indicated a willingness to take a look and to find something that would work for the community of Hot Springs in their desire to serve veterans. Would you commit that you will take a second look at it to see if we can make this work for the veterans in that area? It’s not just South Dakota. It’s Wyoming, Colorado and Nebraska as well.” “The afternoon after we met, I already had a chance to get on the phone with the Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) Director and the facilities director out in that area,” replied Dr. Shulkin. “I had them go through their rationale about how they got to their decision making. I had some additional questions, much like you, and I appreciate you bringing those to my attention. We are going to relook at this. There were actually a couple options on the table…I have begun the process of looking at that and I will get back to you and discuss with you what some of those options are. I want to get your thoughts on how we can serve veterans in that area best.” Rounds is a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over Dr. Shulkin’s confirmation hearing. ###
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Rounds: Democrat Boycott of Qualified EPA Nominee is “Childish” Democrats boycott EPW hearing, preventing Committee debate and vote on Pruitt nomination WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today expressed his disappointment that EPW Committee Democrats boycotted the scheduled business meeting to debate and vote on the advancement of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This boycott was despite EPW Committee Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) giving Committee members unprecedented opportunity to question Pruitt during his confirmation hearing and Pruitt answering more than 1,200 questions from members, more than 5 times the amount than previous administrations’ EPA picks. “Simply not showing up for a committee hearing is probably one of the more childish things [Committee Democrats could do],” said Rounds during the meeting. “If they had reasons why Mr. Pruitt should not be identified as the next administrator, to voice those and to lay out their arguments appropriately in opposition to our arguments in favor of him would have been a healthy discussion and would have been an example to young people across this country about the way that our government should work. Open and public debate and discourse is a healthy part of this process. Simply not showing up because you lost an election is probably not the most appropriate way to set an example for the next generation.” Over the past month, Rounds has had the opportunity to meet with Attorney General Pruitt on a number of occasions, as well as question him during his confirmation hearing. Through those interactions, Pruitt has pledged to rein in an overly-expansive EPA, take state and local opinions into consideration when making decisions, use sound science when promulgating regulations and work with Congress rather than implement sweeping new rules without their consent. ###
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Rounds Statement on Meeting with Jay Clayton Clayton is nominee to Chair Securities and Exchange Commission WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today made the following statement after his meeting with Walter J. “Jay” Clayton, whom President Trump has nominated to be Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). “I thank Mr. Clayton for meeting with me today to discuss a number of issues, including the need to protect the markets against damaging cyber threats and reducing the regulatory burden at the SEC,” said Rounds. “We had an enlightening conversation and it is clear that Mr. Clayton understands the important role the SEC has in maintaining strong markets while also protecting investors.” Rounds is a member of the Senate Banking Committee, which has jurisdiction over Mr. Clayton’s confirmation. His confirmation hearing has not yet been scheduled. ###
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Rounds Appointee Accepted to U.S. Air Force Academy Samantha Herman was nominated to the United States Air Force Academy by Senator Mike Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today called Madison High School student Samantha Herman to notify her of her offer of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Rounds was pleased to hear that Herman intends to accept the offer. Herman, the daughter of William Herman and Tara Erbentraut of Madison, received a principal nomination to the United States Air Force Academy from Rounds. “I congratulate Samantha on her offer of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Rounds. “As a member of National Honor Society, Student Council and Future Business Leaders of America, it is clear that Samantha has leadership skills that will serve her well as she pursues an education at one of our country’s premier service academies. It was an honor to nominate Samantha and I wish her the best of luck at the Air Force Academy.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Rounds Statement on Meeting with Dr. David Shulkin Shulkin Nominated to be Veterans Affairs Secretary WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today made the following statement after his meeting with Dr. David Shulkin, whom President Trump has nominated to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “I thank Dr. Shulkin for meeting with me to discuss our shared goals of fixing the systemic problems facing the VA and making our veterans the top priority,” said Rounds. “During our meeting, we discussed the future of the VA health care facility in Hot Springs and the Choice Program, which is set to expire in August 2017. Additionally, I urged the VA, under his leadership, to comply with the Emergency Care Fairness Act (ECFA) based on the clear intent expressed by Congress and the court system. Since the ECFA was enacted in 2010, the VA has failed in its legal obligation to cover the emergency room bills of hundreds of thousands of veterans.” "It’s clear that Dr. Shulkin understands the problems within the VA and truly cares about our nation’s veterans. I look forward to working closely with him to improve the lives of all veterans, should he be confirmed.” Rounds is a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over Dr. Shulkin’s confirmation. His confirmation hearing has not yet been scheduled. ###
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Rounds Questions SBA Nominee Linda McMahon During Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today questioned Linda McMahon, nominee to be administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA), on the role the agency would take to withdraw the Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule. “Many family farms and ranches would be impacted by the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the U.S. rule,” said Rounds during the hearing. “The SBA’s Office of Advocacy sent a letter on October 1, 2014, to the EPA’s Administrator Gina McCarthy and Major General John Peabody of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers criticizing the WOTUS rule and its impact on small business. In fact, they actually recommended the entire rule be withdrawn…If you are confirmed as administrator of the SBA, would you be willing to write a similar letter recommending once again that this rule be withdrawn?” “I would look forward to working with you and other members of the committee to make sure that we have the right regulations in place and not overly burdensome ones,” replied McMahon. Rounds is a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, which has jurisdiction over Ms. McMahon’s confirmation hearing. ###
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Rounds Statement on Trump’s Executive Actions to Move Keystone XL, Dakota Access Pipelines Forward WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive action to move forward with construction of the Keystone Xl and Dakota Access pipelines. “President Trump understands that pipelines provide an effective and efficient means of transporting natural resources and meeting our country’s energy needs,” said Rounds. “Good domestic energy policies include an ‘all of the above’ approach that will strengthen our economy, create jobs and enhance U.S. energy independence. As the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines move forward, I will continue to work with those involved to address their concerns.”
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Rounds Statement on Heather Wilson’s Nomination to Serve as Air Force Secretary WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued the following statement on the nomination of Dr. Heather Wilson, president of South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T), to be secretary of the Air Force: “I congratulate Dr. Wilson for being nominated to lead the Air Force,” said Rounds. “While I am selfishly disappointed she won’t be continuing to serve SDSM&T, our state’s loss is our country’s gain. Her experience as president of SDSM&T, U.S. Congresswoman and Air Force officer make her uniquely qualified for this important leadership position. I look forward to continuing to work with Dr. Wilson in this new role.” The Senate Armed Services Committee has jurisdiction over Dr. Wilson’s confirmation. If confirmed, Wilson will be just the third female and first Air Force Academy graduate to serve as Secretary of the Air Force. Since 2013, Wilson has served as president of SDSM&T, a leading science and engineering school in the U.S. located in Rapid City. She represented New Mexico’s 1st district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1998 – 2009. ###
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Rounds Questions EPA Nominee Scott Pruitt at Confirmation Hearing Rounds: Preserving our environment and preserving the economy are not mutually exclusive WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works (EPW), today questioned Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt during his confirmation hearing to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “As the Attorney General, you represented the interests of your state—both your state’s economy and your state’s environment,” said Rounds during the hearing. “But, just because you are pro-economic development does not mean that you have to be anti-environment. Preserving the environment and preserving the economy, I don’t believe, are mutually exclusive. I don’t think you have to choose between the two. How would you balance economic growth with making certain we have clean air and clean water? “I think part of it is inherent in the statutes and the process that the EPA is supposed to conduct,” replied Pruitt. “Sometimes rulemaking is seen as something that is not terribly important or something laborious, but the reason Congress has said [the EPA] must offer notice on a proposed rule and take comment, is that it’s needed to make sure all voices are heard...So, rulemaking is something we should take seriously and that we should do so consistent with the framework outlined by Congress, so that all voices are heard in the rulemaking process.” ###
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Rounds to Chair Newly-Formed Subcommittee on Cybersecurity WASHINGTON— U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), announced today that he will serve as Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Cybersecurity in the 115th Congress. “It is an honor to be chosen to chair this important subcommittee, which will be tasked with oversight and legislation for policies and programs relating to the Defense Department’s cyber forces and capabilities,” said Rounds. “Of particular concern to me is the Defense Department’s role in responding to an attack on our nation’s civilian critical infrastructure and in deterring bad actors from conducting such an attack in the first place. “As recent events have shown, the U.S. is not immune to a cyber-attack from hostile foreign actors. Even more alarming, our adversaries have determined that the reward outweighs the risk of launching a cyber-attack against our nation. It is the newest, most sophisticated form of attack threatening our national security today. A cyber-attack on our critical infrastructure, including electric grids, transportation systems and water supplies, could cause significant destruction, or worse, lead to loss of life. I look forward to working closely with SASC Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) in the coming weeks to outline an agenda for the committee that will tackle the most pressing national security matters with regard to cybersecurity.” ###
04.21.2017	04.21.17 Rounds Appointee Accepted to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Zachariah Markel of Watertown was nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point by Senator Mike Rounds WATERTOWN—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that Watertown High School student Zachariah Markel has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, which he intends to accept. Markel, the son of Robert L. and Carol Ann Markel of Watertown, received a nomination to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point from Rounds. “I congratulate Zachariah on his offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point,” said Rounds. “It is clear that Zachariah cares deeply about giving back to his community and his country, both of which are important traits for students at our nation’s service academies. It was an honor to nominate Zachariah and I wish him all the best.” Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Rounds Questions General Mattis on Sequestration and Military Readiness in Confirmation Hearing General James Mattis is Nominated to be Next Secretary of Defense WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today questioned General James Mattis during his confirmation hearing to be the Secretary of Defense. “Sometimes I think we misunderstand in this country that the number one priority that we should be looking at is the defense of our country, because if we’re not free, nothing else really matters,” said Rounds at the hearing. “When you talk about sequestration, we seem to have a misunderstanding that somehow expenditures for defense should be equalized with expenditures for non-defense discretionary spending. Would you care to state your opinion and how you would advise the president with regard to sequestration and the elimination of those caps, and what it would mean to the United States military?” “Senator, I understand the need for solvency and security because no nation in history has maintained its military power if it did not maintain its fiscal house in good order,” replied General Mattis. “At the same time, I believe that this country has got to be prepared to defend itself. The idea of a government of the people, by the people and for the people remains a radical thought in many people’s minds in this world. We’re going to have to be able to fight for it. So as a result of that, I believe we can afford survival. I don’t believe in mathematical calculus that basically makes the Congress spectators as cuts come in and you don’t have control over that…I don’t want Congress in a role where sequestration is making decisions for you.” ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Rounds Receives Dr. Carson’s Commitment to Address Tribal Housing Concerns Looks Forward to Supporting him as Next Secretary of Housing and Urban Development WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today questioned Dr. Ben Carson during his confirmation hearing to be Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “There is a strong concern on the part of Native Americans in rural areas that the current formula in which funds are being distributed by HUD was not following that which had been recommended by some senior staff, and in fact was following an old guideline,” said Rounds during his questioning. “Would you please consider that we find a fairer way to give these folks…the resources they need so they get a chance at housing as well?” “Thank you for advocating for them,” replied Carson. “This is a situation that has weighed heavily on my mind as I’ve learned more and more about it…the Native American Housing Assistance and Self Determination Act has been waiting to be re-upped after six years. I’m looking forward to the Senate reauthorizing that act in the very near future. The amount of red tape on the reservations right now is astonishing. On tribal lands, if you want to build a house, you have to get permission from HUD, permission from the [Department of the] Interior, and if you want to put a driveway on it you have to get permission from the Department of Transportation. We need to bring back a little bit of common sense and have the people associated with those tribes involved in that decision making.”
01.10.2017	01.10.17 Rounds Meets with Army Corps to Discuss Snowpack Levels Along Missouri River Basin Asks Army Corps to Explain Steps it is Taking to Avoid Flood WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, today met with delegates from the Army Corps Omaha District to discuss snowfall levels and future precipitation predictions for the Missouri River in 2017. The Omaha District is tasked with managing the Missouri River basin, which underwent serious flooding in 2011. “South Dakotans remember all too well the 2011 Missouri River flood, which caused more than $2 billion in damages and displaced over 4,000 people,” said Rounds. “Today, the Army Corps assured me that although there are areas of higher precipitation, reported runoff throughout the basin is at normal levels. The Corps has agreed to provide additional updates to the communities and I will continue to closely monitor the Corps’ management of snowpack levels in the coming months.” ###
01.09.2017	01.09.17 Rounds Accepting Summer 2017 Internship Applications WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for summer 2017. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is February 17, 2017. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than February 17, 2017. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Erin Budmayr at erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450. ###
01.06.2017	01.06.17 Delegation Statement on VA Decision to Close Hot Springs Facility WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today issued the following joint statement after U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald announced that the VA would close a large portion of the Hot Springs facility: “We are deeply concerned by the Obama VA’s decision, which is the direct result of a flawed process and continued data discrepancies,” said Thune, Rounds, and Noem. “The Hot Springs campus, supported by a dedicated medical staff and compassionate community, is critical to the veterans it serves. We are committed, as we have always been, to finding a solution that puts our veterans in the best possible position to receive the high-quality health care and support they deserve. The delegation will continue to work together and with veterans and community stakeholders to determine next steps.” On November 10, 2016, the VA issued its final environmental impact statement on the Black Hills Health Care system, which was the last formal procedural step prior to VA Secretary McDonald’s decision to shutter the facility. In a November 23, 2016, letter to Secretary McDonald, Thune, Rounds, and Noem expressed their disappointment after McDonald declined their request to meet in person at the Hot Springs VA to discuss the future of the facility. On December 6, 2016, during a meeting in Washington, D.C., the delegation encouraged McDonald to thoroughly consider the input he received from veterans, staff, and other community stakeholders. Existing law prohibits the VA from reducing services in South Dakota in fiscal year 2017 unless the VA meets a series of requirements, including a national realignment strategy, which have yet to be initiated. ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Bicameral Legislation to Authorize Permanent Land Transfer for Expansion of Black Hills National Cemetery Reintroduced in First Week of 115th Congress WASHINGTON — Members of the South Dakota congressional delegation, which includes U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), were joined today by U.S. Sen. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) in reintroducing companion versions of the Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act, legislation that would facilitate a permanent land transfer of approximately 200 acres of Bureau of Land Management land to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery outside of Sturgis, South Dakota. “It is important that South Dakota’s veterans know that the Black Hills National Cemetery will be able to accommodate them for generations to come,” said Rounds. “I hope this noncontroversial proposal to expand the cemetery’s boundary moves quickly through Congress.” “For decades, the Black Hills National Cemetery has been a place for military families to remember and honor loved ones who have served,” said Thune. “The land on which the cemetery sits is as majestic as it is hallowed, and by expanding the cemetery’s boundary, we can ensure that our military heroes will have a place to rest in peace for generations to come.” “Our nation owes deep and eternal gratitude to those who have served and the families that have stood beside them,” said Noem. “By allowing for the permanent expansion of the Black Hills National Cemetery, veterans and military families for generations to come can be assured that our country will forever honor their courageous service and tremendous sacrifices.” “Our veterans have made great sacrifices for their country and it is important that we can provide them with an honorable resting place,” said Enzi. “Wyoming is one of the few remaining states without a VA National Cemetery, and it is therefore critical to ensure that those in neighboring states have adequate capacity. This legislation would provide the needed land to ensure that the Black Hills National Cemetery can continue to serve the region for decades as a place for military families to honor their loved ones. I hope Congress will work quickly to pass this noncontroversial legislation.” Under current law, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act limits transfers like this one to a lifespan of 20 years. The Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act would make this particular transfer permanent. Rounds, Thune, Noem, and Enzi first introduced companion versions of the Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act in 2015, and the House version passed its chamber in September 2016. The bill was nearing passage in the Senate at the end of 114th Congress, which is why the members quickly reintroduced the bill during the first week of the 115th Congress. ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Rounds Statement on Meeting with General James Mattis General Will be Defense Secretary Nominee WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement following his meeting with Gen. James Mattis, whom President-elect Trump announced he will nominate to be Defense Secretary. “I thank Gen. Mattis for taking the time to meet with me today to discuss a range of issues, from cybersecurity to the F-35 and B-21 aircraft ,” said Rounds. “Gen. Mattis understands the need to wisely invest more in our defense and has a keen geostrategic awareness that is crucial to rebuilding our armed forces. I look forward to working with him to provide our armed forces with the tools they need to succeed and keep us safe.” Rounds is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over Gen. Mattis’ confirmation. His confirmation hearing is scheduled for Thurs., Jan. 12, 2017. ###
01.04.2017	01.04.17 Rounds Statement on Meeting With Scott Pruitt Oklahoma Attorney General Nominated as EPA Administrator WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement following his meeting with Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, who President-elect Trump announced he will nominate to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “I thank Mr. Pruitt for taking the time to meet with me today to discuss our shared goals of reining in an overly-expansive EPA,” said Rounds. “During our meeting, Mr. Pruitt and I discussed our frustrations with the current administration’s regulatory process, which too often fails to take state and local concerns into consideration when making decisions, skews facts to support its own agenda and circumvents Congress to enact burdensome regulations on the American people. These misguided practices have hurt our ag community the most, forcing our farmers and ranchers to waste time on unnecessary paperwork rather than spending time caring for their land, livestock and crops. As South Dakota’s number one industry, I look forward to working with Mr. Pruitt to restore the ag community’s faith in the EPA and make certain the agency is working with them to protect both our natural resources and their ability to feed a growing population.” Rounds is a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over the EPA and will hold Pruitt’s confirmation hearing. Last month, Rounds wrote to Attorney General Pruitt to outline his findings and concerns about the current administration’s regulatory process. Full text of the letter can be found HERE. ###
01.04.2017	01.04.17 Rounds Statement on Meeting with SBA Nominee Linda McMahon WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement following his meeting with Linda McMahon, President-elect Trump’s nominee to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA). Rounds is a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, which has jurisdiction over the nomination of the SBA Administrator. “I thank Ms. McMahon for taking the time to meet with me today to discuss the importance of small businesses in America,” said Rounds. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and I look forward to working with Ms. McMahon to promote common-sense initiatives that will help them grow and create jobs.”
01.03.2017	01.03.17 Rounds Secures Five Key Committee Assignments for 115th Congress Adds additional committee assignment: The Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he will maintain his membership on four key committee assignments in the 115th Congress: Armed Services; Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; Environment and Public Works (EPW); and Veterans’ Affairs. Additionally, he will serve on the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, which has jurisdiction over the Small Business Administration and researching and investigating all problems relating to small business enterprises. “I am thankful for the opportunity to continue serving South Dakotans on these committees, each of which focuses on issues that are important to our state.” “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, we will continue to seek policies that protect Ellsworth and support all our troops and their families who protect us. The defense of our nation is the primary responsibility of the federal government, and we must make certain our troops have the tools they need to remain successful.” “South Dakotans have a proud tradition of serving our nation, and we are home to more than 72,000 veterans. The Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee allows me to continue working to provide our veterans with the care they deserve but is lacking under the broken VA.” “In the EPW Committee, we held the Army Corps accountable for its management of the Missouri River and shed light on Environmental Protection Agency’s failure to use sound science and adhere to states’ rights when promulgating regulations. We will continue the fight to roll back burdensome regulations coming from these agencies and promote a fact-based energy policy.” “The financial services industry plays a crucial role in South Dakota’s economy. As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, I will continue seeking to provide regulatory relief to businesses, farming and ranching communities and consumers so they have access to credit through their local institutions. “Small businesses are the backbone of South Dakota’s economy. As a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am eager to work to promote common-sense initiatives that well help grow and create jobs.” “While I am proud of the work we’ve accomplished in each of these committees, I am eager to build on our successes and continue working for South Dakotans in the 115th Congress.” ###
12.26.2016	12.26.16 Rounds Urges Attorney General Pruitt to Restore Order at EPA PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today wrote to Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee to be the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator, urging him to correct many of the current administration’s damaging protocols at the EPA. Rounds is a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee and Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, which has oversight of the EPA. In the 114th Congress, both the EPW Committee and Rounds’ subcommittee have uncovered troubling practices by the EPA, including failing to take state and local concerns into consideration when making decisions, skewing facts to support its agenda and circumventing Congress to impose burdensome, costly regulations on the American people. “I am hopeful the incoming administration will takes steps to improve the federal regulatory process to make certain federal regulations are promulgated in a transparent and open manner, underpinned by the best scientific evidence available, and with adequate public participation,” wrote Rounds. “I am concerned that [the] flaws in the current administration’s EPA regulatory process have led to overly-burdensome EPA regulations that are based on incorrect assumptions and do not adequately realize the impacts these regulations have on state and local governments, and American businesses and taxpayers.” Full text of the letter is below: Dear Attorney General Pruitt – I would like to extend my congratulations to you on your nomination to serve as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). I commend you for the work you have done as Oklahoma Attorney General to reinforce states' rights and reign in an overly-expansive EPA, and I am encouraged that your background working in state government will allow us to show renewed focus on the importance of state and local government experience and input in the EPA regulatory process. I look forward to working with you and supporting you throughout the confirmation process.‎ I am hopeful the incoming administration will takes steps to improve the federal regulatory process to make certain federal regulations are promulgated in a transparent and open manner, underpinned by the best scientific evidence available, and with adequate public participation. In the 114th Congress, I served as Chairman of the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight. One of my main goals as chairman has been to conduct a thorough and systematic review of the regulatory process focusing on the impacts of EPA regulations on citizens and businesses, as well as solutions to these problems. To that end, I would like to share with you some of the lessons we have learned on the subcommittee throughout our oversight of the current administration in the 114th Congress. I would be interested in your thoughts on these issues and am looking forward to the opportunity to discuss them with you in person. Under the current administration, the EPA’s process for considering scientific information is flawed and unbalanced. There is a lack of balanced expertise, geographic diversity, and state, local and tribal representation on EPA advisory panels such as the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) and the Science Advisory Board (SAB). There has also been a lack of member turnover, meaningful public participation and transparency on these advisory panels. The EPA’s regulatory approach is inefficient and disregards small businesses. The EPA has exploited ambiguities in the Regulatory Flexibility Act to impose overly burdensome regulations on American small businesses with little regard to the real-world consequences of the regulations. For the past eight years, the EPA has not upheld the principle of cooperative federalism and regularly violates the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) by imposing costly unfunded mandates on state, local and tribal governments without adequately taking into consideration the impact these regulations have on smaller governmental entities. Further, the EPA circumvents consultation requirements and does not adequately consider public comments that aim to explain how EPA regulations will impact state and local governments and American taxpayers. The EPA does not conduct a robust economic analysis of the impact of regulations, particularly the effects of regulation on employment; nor does the agency take into consideration the cumulative impacts of multiple layers of regulations that are imposed on states, American citizens and businesses. I am concerned that these flaws in the current administration’s EPA regulatory process have led to overly-burdensome EPA regulations that are based on incorrect assumptions and do not adequately realize the impacts these regulations have on state and local governments, and American businesses and taxpayers. As we enter the 115th Congress and welcome a new administration, it is my hope that regulatory reform will be a cornerstone of the legislative agenda moving forward. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to discussing these issues with you. Sincerely, ###
12.22.2016	12.22.16 Members of Tri-State Delegation Asks VA for Answers About Reduction of Hot Springs Services Despite Superior Rating PIERRE — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) and Reps. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) and Adrian Smith (R-Neb.) today wrote U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to ask about the VA’s preferred alternative to drastically cut services at the Hot Springs VA facility despite it being rated by the VA as one of only 14 “five star” facilities across the country. “As you continue to overhaul the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) through the MyVA plan, we believe that it is essential to use VA’s top performing facilities as models for others to follow as opposed to targeting them for closure,” wrote the delegation. “Now more than ever, the VA needs to leverage its top medical centers for best practices and lessons learned to replicate their performance throughout VHA. This is critical as the VA continues to rebuild trust with veterans following the high profile scandals of recent years. As one of only 14 rated five-star facilities, we feel that significantly reducing services at Hot Springs would be a grave mistake and a disservice to the veterans it serves.” Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary McDonald: We write to you regarding the recent press publication of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) internal quality “star ranking” metrics for its medical facilities. It is with great pride that we note the Hot Springs campus of the Black Hills Health Care System (BHHCS) is one of only 14 “five-star” facilities out of a total of 146 medical centers. As you are aware, the Hot Springs campus takes great pride in the care and services it provides to veterans, a mission that it has admirably accomplished since the U.S. Civil War. It is therefore no surprise for us to learn that Hot Springs is one of the VA’s top performing facilities. This revelation makes the VA’s proposed BHHCS realignment and corresponding reduction in services at Hot Springs all the more concerning. Since the start of the realignment process over five years ago, we have expressed concern about the VA using this process to accomplish a pre-determined outcome, as opposed to conducting an honest and fair assessment to determine the best way to serve veterans in the Black Hills and surrounding areas. The VA’s release of a preferred alternative that drastically cuts veterans services at Hot Springs at the same time that we learn it is one of the VA’s premier medical facilities casts significant doubt upon the integrity of the entire realignment process. We therefore ask that you provide our offices with specifics as to the role that these previously unreleased quality metrics play in the VA’s realignment decisions. As you continue to overhaul the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) through the MyVA plan, we believe that it is essential to use VA’s top performing facilities as models for others to follow as opposed to targeting them for closure. Now more than ever, the VA needs to leverage its top medical centers for best practices and lessons learned to replicate their performance throughout VHA. This is critical as the VA continues to rebuild trust with veterans following the high profile scandals of recent years. As one of only 14 rated five-star facilities, we feel that significantly reducing services at Hot Springs would be a grave mistake and a disservice to the veterans it serves. As you consider the final outcome for the Hot Springs campus and the BHHCS, we hope that you keep these considerations in mind. We look forward to working with you to serve our nation’s veterans and we thank you for your timely consideration of this urgent and important matter. Sincerely,
12.22.2016	12.22.16 Rounds Announces U.S. Service Academy Nominations WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his nominees to attend the nation’s service academies for the fall 2017 semester. “It is an honor to nominate these young South Dakota students to become the next generation of military leaders,” said Rounds. “The United States service academies are looking for the best and brightest to join their ranks, and I was fortunate to receive nomination applications from an outstanding group of students. I’m confident they possess the leadership qualities and academic excellence to succeed at our nation’s service academies. I wish them all the best.” Each year, members of Congress are allowed to nominate students from their state to the U.S. service academies. Each academy then gives full and fair consideration to these nominations when selecting enrollees. Senator Rounds announced he has nominated the following South Dakotans: Spencer DeLange of Sioux Falls, SD, to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Colin Entinger of Brandon, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Brooke Fraasch of Milbank, SD, to U.S. Naval Academy Mariah Grant of Rosholt, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Blake Hayden of Canton, SD, to U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Samantha Herman of Madison, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Amber Hulse of Hot Springs, SD, to U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy Lauren Hunstad of Parker, SD, to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Tessa Kimbler of Aberdeen, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Stanley Larson of Sioux Falls, SD, to U.S. Military Academy at West Point and U.S. Naval Academy Zachariah Markel of Watertown, SD, to U.S. Military Academy at West Point and U.S. Naval Academy Spencer Mohr of Mitchell, SD, to U.S. Military Academy at West Point and U.S. Naval Academy Jonah Nelson of Sioux Falls, to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Noah Scott of Gary, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Fallen Sorbel of Martin, SD, to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Jack Talcott of Brandon, SD, to U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Military Academy at West Point Eli VanHorn of Plankinton, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Justice West of Piedmont, SD, to U.S. Naval Academy Additionally, Rounds has nominated the following students who are dependents of South Dakota residents: Durant Crow of West Point, NY, to U.S. Military Academy at West Point Tacoma Mendelsohn of Hampton, VA, to U.S. Air Force Academy More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
12.09.2016	12.09.16 Rounds, Klobuchar Lead Bipartisan Effort Urging the VA to Comply with 2010 Law that Protects Veterans from Exorbitant ER Bills WASHINGTON— Led by U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), 22 senators, including six from the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, wrote to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to urge him to comply with the Emergency Care Fairness Act (ECFA). The ECFA was enacted in 2010 and directed the VA to cover veterans with private health insurance when that insurance doesn’t cover the full amount of non-VA emergency care. Yet since 2010, the VA has not complied with the law, denying hundreds of thousands of veterans’ reimbursement claims for emergency care. Earlier this year, a federal court ordered the VA to write regulations that comply with the ECFA. In addition to urging the VA to comply with the law, the senators also requested that the agency fix its mistake and re-open all previously-denied claims. “Congress’s clear intent in passing the ECFA was to expand veteran eligibility for reimbursement for emergency treatment furnished to veterans in non-department facilities,” wrote the senators. “Specifically, congressional intent was to require the VA to act as a secondary payer for emergency treatment costs not covered by the veteran’s third-party insurance. It is evident that the VA has ignored congressional intent. Most troubling is the fact that those who are most affected by the VA’s non-compliance with the ECFA are our elderly veterans, many of whom are living on fixed incomes and have limited resources to pay medical bills.” In addition to Rounds and Klobuchar, the letter was signed by Sens. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.). The letter is supported by The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, and the Paralyzed Veterans of America. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary McDonald: We write today to express our support for the Veterans Emergency Care Fairness Act of 2009 (ECFA). Six years after enactment of the ECFA, our nation’s veterans continue to bear the burden of emergency treatment costs not covered by veterans’ third-party insurance. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) continued denial of these claims is deeply troubling. Congress’s clear intent in passing the ECFA was to expand veteran eligibility for reimbursement for emergency treatment furnished to veterans in non-department facilities. Specifically, congressional intent was to require the VA to act as a secondary payer for emergency treatment costs not covered by the veteran’s third-party insurance. It is evident that the VA has ignored congressional intent. Most troubling is the fact that those who are most affected by the VA’s non-compliance with the ECFA are our elderly veterans, many of whom are living on fixed incomes and have limited resources to pay medical bills. Often, these veterans find themselves dealing with collection agencies as a result of emergency care received in the community. This potentially increases stress for these veterans, causes them to lose faith in the VA and keeps them from seeking future medical attention out of fear of acquiring additional medical bills for which they would be financially responsible. As you are aware, on April 8, 2016, in the case of “Staab v. Secretary McDonald,” the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims agreed with the appellant’s contention that the VA’s application of 38 U.S.C. § 1725 frustrates the intent of Congress to reimburse veterans who are not wholly covered by a health-plan contract or other third-party recourse. In its decision, the court ruled that “Congress clearly intended that the VA be responsible for the cost of the emergency treatment which exceeds the amount payable or paid by the third-party insurer.” The court further found the VA’s regulations regarding the ECFA to be invalid and wholly inconsistent with the statute. As a result, the court ruled that 38 C.F.R. § 17.1002(f) is held invalid and directed it to be set aside. Based upon this ruling, we strongly urge you to bring the VA into compliance with P.L. 111-137 and to amend any policy, regulation or other barrier that results in denial of veterans’ claims for reimbursement for non-department emergency care. We further urge you to re-open all previous claims of veterans that were denied because of the VA’s non-compliance with congressional intent and the law. Thank you for your attention to our concerns regarding this important issue. We look forward to working closely with you to fully serve the veterans of our great nation. Sincerely, ###
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of NDAA Includes a number of provisions offered by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued a statement following the Senate passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill includes a number of provisions offered by Rounds, including language from his Cyber Act of War Act and his legislation requiring training for Department of Defense (DoD) officials to expedite the hiring of cyber security professionals. It also includes his legislation to require DoD to more carefully monitor prescriptions dispensed at military treatment facilities for the treatment of PTSD. “The NDAA is one of the most important pieces of legislation we pass each year, as it shows our troops and their families that they have the full support of Congress,” said Rounds. “As I’ve said before, the number one responsibility of the federal government is keeping Americans safe. The NDAA we passed today will make sure our military remains capable of adequately defending our country in the next year, and for years to come. I am pleased that a number of provisions I offered were included in it as well.” The NDAA includes language from Rounds’ Cyber Act of War Act that would require the president to submit a report to Congress defining when an act in cyber space requires a military response. It also includes his legislation to improve DoD prescription drug monitoring for PTSD and require training of DoD personnel who hire civilian cyber security professionals. ###
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Senate Air Force Caucus Members Discuss Priorities with Senior Members of Air Force WASHINGTON – Members of the Senate Air Force Caucus met with U.S. Air Force leaders at the caucus' biannual breakfast in Washington to discuss upcoming priorities and challenges of the Air Force. Chief of Staff of the Air Force General David Goldfein; Vice Chief General Steven Wilson and Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force James Cody were among the senior Air Force leaders at the breakfast. The session afforded Members the opportunity to talk about a wide range of topics, from modernization and manning issues to the future of cyber operations and budgetary challenges. “I thank Air Force leaders for taking time out of their day to discuss steps we can take to make sure our Air Force has every tool it needs to be successful,” said Senator Mike Rounds. “From critical missions being conducted at Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota to important aerospace research being done to assure U.S. air superiority, the Air Force plays an important role in our long-term defense strategy. As a member of the Senate Armed Forces Committee and the Senate Air Force Caucus, I remain committed to fully supporting our Air Force.” U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), John Hoeven (R-ND) and Jon Tester (D-MT) are leaders of the Senate Air Force Caucus. The bipartisan group includes 49 members and oversees issues impacting the U.S. Air Force. The caucus sponsors specialized briefings, base visits and outreach opportunities with Air Force stakeholders throughout the year. ###
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Rounds Looks Back on Time as EPW Subcommittee Chairman in Senate Floor Speech WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor about his experience chairing the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight during the 114th Congress. The subcommittee is tasked with providing oversight on the agencies under The EPW Committee’s jurisdiction, including the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other agencies that have implemented excessive, overreaching regulations under this administration. “Throughout this Congress, the goal of our Subcommittee has been to unify and lead an effort to advance meaningful regulatory reform in Congress,” said Rounds on the Senate floor. “We must make certain the regulatory process reflects transparency and sound science and is based on a realistic economic foundation and meaningful public participation that considers the multitude of facets of the U.S. economy. With an ally in the White House next year who has committed to reducing burdensome regulations, I plan to continue this effort throughout the next Congress and beyond. The success of the U.S. economy and the creation of American jobs depends on Congress making a concerted effort to take back their authority and reign in the rulemaking process.” Full text of Rounds’ speech, as prepared for delivery: Madam/Mr. President, I rise today to speak on the need for regulatory reform and also on the work we have done on the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, of which I have had the great privilege to Chair in the 114th Congress. I would be remiss if I did not also recognize our Ranking Member from Massachusetts, Senator Markey, for his contribution to our oversight efforts. One of my main goals as Chairman has been to conduct a thorough and systematic review of the regulatory process focusing on the impacts of these regulations on citizens and businesses, and – most importantly – solutions to these problems. We have sought to make certain, federal regulations are promulgated in a transparent, open process with adequate public participation. Our subcommittee has held hearings conducting oversight on various aspects of the rulemaking process. This includes the adequacy of the science the agencies rely on when promulgating regulations, the increasing number of unfunded mandates agencies impose on state and local governments, the impact of lawsuits on the rulemaking process, and the impacts these regulations have on small businesses, state and local governments and landowners. Since I began working in the Senate nearly two years ago, it has become increasingly clear that economic growth, American innovation and job creation are being smothered by heavy-handed federal regulations imposed by Washington bureaucrats who think they know what is best for American families, states, local governments and businesses. According to the American Action Forum, since 2009, this administration has finalized 2,973 regulations at a cost of $862.7 billion dollars as of December 7. Of these, 179 regulations have come from the Environmental Protection Agency, costing American taxpayers $342.5 billion dollars. Since writing this speech one week ago, ten more regulations had been finalized, with five of those coming from the EPA. EPA regulations alone make up nearly half of the cost of all the regulations finalized in the past seven years. As Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, it has become clear to me that the EPA is one of the most egregious government agencies in imposing burdensome federal regulations on citizens, states and businesses. We have found a failure to review the most current and important science that the agency supposedly bases its regulations on. We have found that the “sue and settle” process utilized by special interest groups leads to a rushed and reckless rulemaking process that does not follow the proper regulatory process or allow for adequate public participation from those these rules will impact the most. Further, the EPA regularly fails to take into account how their regulations will impact states and shows little regard to how the states will use their limited resources to comply with these regulations, thereby issuing rules that impose federal unfunded mandates on states, local and tribal governments. From 2009 to 2014, the EPA issued a total of 19 rules that contained costly unfunded mandates on state governments. The Office of Management and Budget’s 2015 report to Congress estimated federal regulations and unfunded mandates cost states, cities and the general public between $57 and $85 billion dollars every single year. State and local governments are then required to enforce these misguided regulations that have been promulgated by Washington bureaucrats who lack any understanding of the real-world consequences of their regulations or the unique characteristics of the various states. Alarmingly, we have also found that the EPA regularly fails to conduct a thorough and accurate economic analysis which should provide an accurate representation of the costs their regulations will impose on taxpayers and businesses. This leads to grossly inaccurate economic analysis of regulations that affect huge swaths of the U.S. economy and thousands of U.S. businesses and American jobs. A 2014 report from the Government Accountability Office found that – on multiple occasions and with major, costly regulations – the EPA did not provide the public with an explanation of the economic information behind its decision making, despite its obligations to do so. The U.S. Supreme Court recently issued the Michigan v. EPA decision, finding the EPA unreasonably failed to consider costs when deciding to regulate mercury emissions from power plants. This impacts the ability of our businesses to conduct business on a daily basis, to compete in a competitive global marketplace and to employ Americans in steady, well-paying jobs. Notably, small businesses make up 99.7 percent of U.S. employer firms. And federal agencies are required, by law, to examine the impact their regulations will have on small businesses. Throughout our oversight process, we found that the U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy submitted comments to the EPA expressing concerns over a number of recent rulemakings such as the Waters of the U.S. Rule and EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations. However, the EPA moved forward with these regulations with little to no regard for their impact on U.S. small businesses – the backbone of the U.S. economy. As a result, rather than creating jobs and focusing on growing their business, U.S. small businesses are forced to use limited resources to comply with a myriad of costly and burdensome regulations. This year alone, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals imposed a nation-wide injunction on the WOTUS rule, and the Supreme Court imposed a nationwide stay on the Clean Power Plan. While I applaud these decisions, we should not be forced to rely on the courts to prevent such regulations from taking effect. I am also deeply troubled by reports that the EPA and Army Corps are illegally continuing to implement the WOTUS rule despite the court’s nationwide stay. During our Subcommittee field hearing in Rapid City earlier this year, we heard from several witnesses about the difficulty and confusion landowners are facing with regard to WOTUS. I am concerned that if this continues, it may get to the point where the property that is subject to the burdensome regulations loses its value. Make no mistake, I understand that rules and regulations have a place in society. We all want clean air, clean water and safe chemicals, but there is a better way to achieve this without imposing burdensome regulations. These flaws in the EPA’s rulemaking process have prevented agencies from making well-informed decisions. Even more troubling, the public, state and local governments and American businesses are prevented from understanding the need, basis for and the real impact of regulations. This regulatory quagmire did not happen overnight. It comes from decades of increased federal bureaucracy, out-of-control spending and federal agencies not being held accountable for their actions. Similarly, we will not come to a solution overnight. It will take a serious bipartisan effort to move the ball forward to address this problem. Throughout this Congress, the goal of our Subcommittee has been to unify and lead an effort to advance meaningful regulatory reform in Congress. We must make certain the regulatory process reflects transparency and sound science and is based on a realistic economic foundation and meaningful public participation that considers the multitude of facets of the U.S. economy. With an ally in the White House next year who has committed to reducing burdensome regulations, I plan to continue this effort throughout the next Congress and beyond. The success of the U.S. economy and the creation of American jobs depends on Congress making a concerted effort to take back their authority and reign in the rulemaking process. Thank you, Madam/Mr. President, I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum. ###
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Rounds Issues Statement on Senate Passage of 21st Century Cures Act Includes provisions co-sponsored by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued a statement following the Senate’s passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, a comprehensive bill to advance the development of medical treatments and find cures to a number of diseases that affect millions of Americans each year. It includes provisions co-sponsored by Rounds, including the Mental Health and Safe Communities Act. “Sadly, most Americans have felt the impact of devastating diseases like cancer or Alzheimer’s,” said Rounds. “The 21st Century Cures Act gives renewed hope to millions by providing dedicated funding to medical research, with the hopes of finding cures to diseases that affect so many. I look forward to seeing it signed into law by the president.” The 21st Century Cures Act provides $1 billion in state grants over a two year period to fight against opioid abuse and other costly diseases. It also strengthens and improves mental health programs for the first time in over a decade, encourages innovation to boost competition in the prescription drug marketplace to make sure drugs are affordable for Americans, and supports Vice President Joe Biden’s moonshot to find cures for cancer. It includes surges of dedicated funding for cancer, Alzheimer’s and other disease research. The House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act last week by a vote of 392-26, and the president has indicated he will sign it into law. ###
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Rounds Statement on Meeting with Dr. Ben Carson WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement following his meeting with Dr. Ben Carson, who President-elect Trump recently announced he will nominate to be Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): “I thank Dr. Carson for taking the time to meet with me this morning to discuss his ideas for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. During our visit, we discussed ways to streamline HUD and make it more effective, as well as housing priorities in South Dakota, particularly in our tribal communities. I thank Dr. Carson for his willingness to take on this important role in government and look forward to his confirmation hearing.” Rounds is a member of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over HUD and will hold Carson’s confirmation hearing. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has pledged to consider all of President-elect Trump’s nominations in a thorough and timely manner in order to assure a smooth transition between administrations. ###
12.06.2016	12.06.16 Delegation Meets With VA Secretary in DC Following Hot Springs Visit WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and John Thune (R-S.D.), and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today met with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald following his Nov. 30, 2016, visit to the Hot Springs, South Dakota VA campus. During the meeting, the delegation encouraged Secretary McDonald to carefully consider input he received from veterans, staff and other community stakeholders before making any final decision on the future of the campus. The delegation also reiterated to Secretary McDonald that any reconfiguration of the Black Hills Health Care System should be made within the construct of a national realignment strategy for the Veterans Health Administration, as prescribed by law. “Making sure veterans in the Hot Springs area have access to quality health care remains my top priority,” said Rounds. “While I would have preferred to join Secretary McDonald on his trip to Hot Springs, I am glad to have had the opportunity to meet with him today to hear about his visit and seek assurances that a decision on the future of Hot Springs has not been predetermined. The VA must continue to focus on what is best for South Dakota veterans and the Hot Springs community.” “I was encouraged by Secretary McDonald’s willingness to listen to the delegation’s perspective about how we view the future of the Hot Springs VA and by his commitment to continue engaging with the community it serves,” said Thune. “My recommendation to the secretary hasn’t changed. I still believe our veterans would be best served if the Hot Springs VA remained open and operational, especially the facility’s PTSD care, which is credited with saving countless veterans’ lives. It’s my hope that after today’s meeting and Secretary McDonald’s visit to South Dakota last week that he’ll make the right decision for our veterans.” “There is something very special about the ‘Veterans Town,’ both for the veterans it serves but also for the community of Hot Springs itself,” said Noem. “With so much at stake, it is essential the VA Secretary approach this decision with accurate information, a nonbiased perspective, and the shared goal of delivering the best quality healthcare to our nation’s veterans. These are items we’ve insisted upon from the beginning and areas in which we will continue to hold the VA accountable going forward. Our veterans deserve nothing less.” Last week, Secretary McDonald toured part of the Hot Springs VA campus and held a town-hall meeting in Hot Springs to hear from veterans, VA staff and local residents. The delegation recently sent a letter expressing their disappointment and concern over Secretary McDonald’s decision to visit Hot Springs while Congress was in session, thus preventing their participation in the visit. ###
12.05.2016	12.05.16 Rounds, Thune Join Colleagues to Request President Obama Stop Issuing New Regulations WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) joined 21 of their Senate colleagues in sending a letter, led by Sen. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), to President Obama requesting the administration stop issuing non-emergency rules and regulations in the final weeks of his term. Thune and Rounds stressed to the president that the American people made it clear on November 8 that they expect regulatory relief. “Whether it is the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule unfairly burdening our farmers and ranchers, the anti-coal rules eliminating thousands of jobs and driving up household energy costs, or the Dodd-Frank rules denying our small businesses access to capital, federal agencies continue to produce reams of new regulations that hurt our job creators and cripple our economy,” the senators wrote. “But this flawed approach to governance has been rejected by the people.” In addition to Rounds, Thune and Gardner, the letter was signed by U.S. Sens. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), John Barrasso, M.D. (R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Michael Enzi (R-Wyo.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-La.), and Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska). Full text of the letter can be found below. President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to request your Administration cease issuing new, non-emergency rules and regulations given the recent election results of November 8. In a clear and direct repudiation of consistent regulatory overreach by federal agencies, the American people have, for the first time since 2007, handed control of both the executive and legislative branches of government to the same majority. It is our job now to determine the right balance between regulation and free market principles and make sure that our federal government no longer stands between Americans and financial success. Whether it is the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule unfairly burdening our farmers and ranchers, the anti-coal rules eliminating thousands of jobs and driving up household energy costs, or the Dodd-Frank rules denying our small businesses access to capital, federal agencies continue to produce reams of new regulations that hurt our job creators and cripple our economy. But this flawed approach to governance has been rejected by the people. Today, we have the opportunity to return to commonsense principles of regulation and curb unnecessary government interference in the private sector. In doing so, we will grow the economy, create jobs, and, above all, help the people who have been overlooked the past eight years. To this end, we respectfully request you honor the will of the American people and refrain from working on or issuing any new, non-emergency regulations while carrying out your remaining term in office. ###
11.30.2016	11.30.16 Rounds Urges VA to Comply with 2010 Law that Protects Veterans from Exorbitant ER Bills Video Available WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor to urge the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to comply with the Veterans’ Emergency Care Fairness Act. This law, enacted in February 2010, is intended to make certain that veterans with private health insurance are covered by the VA if their outside insurance does not cover the full amount of non-VA emergency care. Despite its unanimous support and clear congressional intent, the VA has continued its previous policy of denying veterans’ eligible emergency room claims for the past six years. Recently, a Minnesota veteran sued the VA after it failed to cover the cost of his emergency treatment as the 2010 law legally requires the agency to do. The U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims ruled unanimously in April that the VA has been in violation of the Emergency Care Fairness Act since its passage. Unfortunately, the VA has appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. “It is a fact that those most affected by the VA’s non-compliance with the Emergency Care Fairness Act are our elderly veterans, many of whom are living on fixed incomes and have limited resources to pay medical bills,” said Rounds during his speech. “Often, these veterans find themselves dealing with collection agencies as a result of emergency care received in the community. In an era where we know that more than 20 veterans commit suicide every day, with 65 percent of those veterans aged 50 years or older, this is unacceptable. “Today I call on the VA to drop their appeal of the Court’s ruling and begin writing new regulations that comply with the law as Congress intended to properly reimburse our veterans for their emergency room care. I fully understand that there is a cost associated with this course of action. Taking care of our veterans and complying with the law is not a cost issue, however. It is a moral and, in this case, it is also a legal issue. Complying with the intent of the Emergency Care Fairness Act is simply the right thing to do. Should the VA agree, I stand ready to support them in their efforts to take care of our veterans and to get them medical care they need, both from the VA and in the private sector.” Link to Youtube Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yf8_FTohdMw&feature=youtu.be ###
11.23.2016	11.23.16 Delegation Disappointed by Secretary McDonald’s Decision to Decline Hot Springs VA Tour and Meeting WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and John Thune (R-S.D.), and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) wrote to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to express their disappointment and concern over McDonald’s decision to decline a December 2, 2016, tour and meeting at the Hot Springs VA. McDonald will instead travel to the facility on November 30, 2016, a day on which the VA knows Congress will be session, thus preventing Thune, Rounds, and Noem from joining him on that day. By declining the December 2 meeting, McDonald is not fulfilling his commitment to tour the facility with the delegation prior to making his decision on whether or not to shutter the Hot Springs VA. “Given the magnitude of the changes the VA’s proposed consolidation would have on veteran care, we request that you not hastily issue a final decision in the waning days of President Obama’s administration,” the delegation wrote. “The uncertainty and distrust this process has sown in the veteran community can only be remedied by thoughtful and studied action. Furthermore, we also maintain that any reconfiguration sought by the VA should be made within the construct of a national realignment strategy for the Veterans Health Administration, as prescribed by law.” On November 10, 2016, the VA issued its final environmental impact statement on the Black Hills Health Care system, the last formal procedural step prior to McDonald having to make a final decision on the facility’s future. Full text of the letter is below, and a PDF of the letter that was sent to McDonald can be found here. The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We write to express our extreme disappointment and concern that you are not fulfilling your commitment to join the South Dakota delegation in touring the Hot Springs hospital campus prior to making a final decision regarding the proposed consolidation of the Black Hills Health Care System. In our discussions with you dating back to before your confirmation as the eighth Secretary of Veterans Affairs, we have made clear our expectation that our veterans be given fair and open consideration in this matter. However, in the nearly five years since the VA first made public its desire to consolidate the Black Hills Health Care System, the process has not been sufficiently transparent or responsive to criticisms from veteran stakeholders. Failure to hold a constructive discussion about the Hot Springs campus with the South Dakota congressional delegation and veteran stakeholders, to include addressing the continued discrepancies in the VA’s analysis, prior to issuing a final decision will all but confirm that a reduction in services at the Hot Springs VA has been a pre-determined outcome throughout this process. We are confident that the long-sought visit to the historic Hot Springs VA campus will be most productive if it includes meaningful engagement with the veteran community and the presence of the South Dakota delegation. Given the magnitude of the changes the VA’s proposed consolidation would have on veteran care, we request that you not hastily issue a final decision in the waning days of President Obama’s administration. The uncertainty and distrust this process has sown in the veteran community can only be remedied by thoughtful and studied action. Furthermore, we also maintain that any reconfiguration sought by the VA should be made within the construct of a national realignment strategy for the Veterans Health Administration, as prescribed by law. Thank you for your timely consideration of this urgent and important matter. Sincerely, ###
11.22.2016	11.22.16 Rounds' Thanksgiving Message to South Dakotans U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today released the following video to wish all South Dakotans a happy Thanksgiving holiday: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRs4cZ7StLM ###
11.15.2016	11.15.16 Rounds' Office Offers Limited Number of Inauguration Tickets to South Dakotans Free tickets available to South Dakota residents on first-come, first-served basis U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that his office will offer tickets to the 58th Presidential Inauguration to South Dakota residents on a first-come, first-served basis. On Friday, January 20, 2017, President-elect Donald J. Trump will be sworn in as president on the West Front Lawn of the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. Each Congressional office receives a limited number of inauguration tickets to distribute to constituents free of charge. South Dakotans interested in attending inauguration can request a ticket by visiting www.rounds.senate.gov/inauguration-ticket-request. The deadline to submit ticket requests is Friday, December 16, 2016. South Dakotans selected to receive tickets will be contacted by Rounds’ office with detailed pick-up information. Please note that due to the limited number of tickets available, ticket requests will be available on a first-come, first-served basis. Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee that all ticket requests will be fulfilled. ###
11.10.2016	11.10.16 Rounds Offers Commemorative Lapel Pins to Vietnam-Era Veterans PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, announced today that his office is participating in a program to give Vietnam-era veterans a commemorative lapel pin to honor and thank them for their service to our country. The Department of Defense conducts a program to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War by naming Commemorative Partners, such as Rounds, to distribute lapel pins to Vietnam veterans. “South Dakota is home to nearly 22,000 Vietnam-era veterans who selflessly and bravely served our country,” said Rounds. “It is a privilege for me to be able to honor their service and sacrifice by distributing pins to veterans of the Vietnam War. Each pin we distribute represents the thanks of a grateful nation to all who served.” Living U.S. veterans who served on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces at any time during the period of November 1, 1955, to May 15, 1975, regardless of location, are eligible to receive a lapel pin, and they will be distributed through Veterans Day 2025. Rounds or his staff will present pins to veterans at events scheduled based on requests. Veterans or their families can request a pin by visiting www.rounds.senate.gov/vietnam-veteran-lapel-pin or by calling one of Rounds’ state offices to be sent a request form. For questions about this program, please contact Rebecca Herman at (605) 224-1450. ###
11.10.2016	11.10.16 Delegation Critical of Final EIS for Hot Springs VA WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and John Thune (R-S.D.), and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today issued the following statements regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) final environmental impact statement (EIS) on the Black Hills Health Care System and the veterans facility in Hot Springs, South Dakota. Any decision on whether or not to close the Hot Springs facility based on the results of the VA’s EIS will be determined by VA Secretary Robert McDonald. “I do have concerns about the final EIS released by the VA this morning,” said Rounds. “While we continue to conduct a thorough review of the EIS, we will also continue working closely with all stakeholders and the VA to make certain any final decision is in the best interest of South Dakota veterans and the Hot Springs community.” “My primary concern, as it has been since the VA released its initial proposal, remains what is best for serving the needs of South Dakota veterans,” said Thune. “It is disappointing that the VA has continued to pursue a pre-determined outcome despite significant opposition from our veterans, who have sought the care they have selflessly earned in Hot Springs for over 100 years. Secretary McDonald has given his word to visit the campus before a final decision is made, and I remain committed to supporting an outcome that best serves all of our veterans.” “We have a responsibility, not only to serve our veterans, but to listen to them,” said Noem. “South Dakota’s veterans have made clear how important it is to them that services at the Hot Springs VA Hospital continue. Still, this administration has incrementally depleted the services offered and pushed forward a seemingly pre-determined plan to close the facility altogether. Now is not the time to close the doors and tell our veterans to find help elsewhere. This is a special place, which is why I’m once again renewing my call to Secretary McDonald to visit Hot Springs before any final decisions are made.” ###
09.27.2016	09.27.16 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Provide Financial Stability to Muni Bonds Allows high quality municipal debt to be classified at a level equivalent to debt issued by corporations WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Mark R. Warner (D-Va.) and Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), members of the Senate Banking Committee, led a bipartisan group of senators in introducing legislation to allow high-quality municipal debt to be classified at a level equivalent to debt issued by corporations. Debt sold by state and local governments is currently excluded from consideration under a rule requiring banks to hold enough highly liquid assets to fund their operations for 30 days. This exclusion may create a disincentive for banks to hold their positions in the municipal-debt market, potentially making it harder for state and local governments to issue bonds to fund infrastructure projects. “Making sure South Dakota and our municipalities have access to capital at the best possible rates is vital for communities to finance important infrastructure projects,” said Rounds. “Our legislation would allow banks to count qualifying municipal debt as High Quality Liquid Assets, helping to maintain demand for the debt which would prevent borrowing rates for municipalities from dramatically increasing.” Under proposed rules issued by federal banking regulators, debt sold by states and localities isn’t eligible to count as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), which means they won’t qualify as assets necessary for banks to retain under new funding requirements issued following the financial crisis. These requirements ensure that banks maintain a liquidity coverage ratio that includes holding a certain amount of HQLA, but prohibits munis from being considered as HQLA. The rules effectively cabin off an entire category of high-quality and highly liquid debt from being considered as HQLA, limiting the incentive for financial institutions to hold these assets and potentially adversely affecting the issuance of such debt by states and municipalities. The Federal Reserve recently weighed in on the issue, making limited changes to their previously issued rule. However, the two other regulators involved—the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp—have made no changes to allow the institutions they regulate to count municipal bonds toward their liquidity buffers. The Rounds-Warner-Schumer bill would categorize certain types of municipal debt as Level 2B, on par with certain corporate debt, and would receive a 50% equivalent to the liquidity ratio requirement. This action would bring municipal bond debt on par with corporate debt, and help stabilize the municipal securities market. In addition to Sens. Rounds, Warner and Schumer, the legislation is co-sponsored by Sens. Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), David Vitter (R-La.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.). ###
09.19.2016	09.19.16 Sens. Rounds, Gillibrand, Lead Bipartisan Initiative Urging President Obama to Reject and if Needed Veto Any One-Sided Resolutions at the UN As the UN General Assembly Begins, 88 Republican and Democrat Senators Join Together to Insist United States Uphold Longstanding U.S. Policy Senators: “At this delicate stage the international community should both provide hope to the parties and avoid taking action that would harm the prospects for meaningful progress” WASHINGTON. – U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) today led a bipartisan letter with 86 other Senators urging President Obama to continue the longstanding U.S. policy of vetoing any one-sided United Nations (UN) Security Council resolution offered at the United Nations that would ultimately make it more difficult for Israelis and Palestinians to negotiate a sustainable two-state solution. “At a time of great challenges in the Middle East, we are disappointed that talks between Israelis and Palestinians remain stalled,” the Senators wrote. “The only way to resolve the conflicts between the two is through direct negotiations that lead to a sustainable two-state solution with a future state of Palestine living in peace and security with Israel. This outcome would provide Israel with greater security and strengthen regional stability. Even well-intentioned initiatives at the United Nations risk locking the parties into positions that will make it more difficult to return to the negotiating table and make the compromises necessary for peace.” The U.S. has a longstanding policy of opposing, and if necessary vetoing these resolutions, whether focused on settlements or other final status issues. As President Obama prepares to attend his final UN General Assembly, the Senators called on him to maintain this longstanding policy, as he has in the past. The letter led by Senators Gillibrand and Rounds is also signed by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Ed Markey (D-MA), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Brian Schatz (D-HI), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Mike Lee (R-UT), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Richard Burr (R-NC), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), John Boozman (R-AR), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), John McCain (R-AZ), Mark Warner (D-VA), Dan Coats (R-IN), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Jon Tester (D-MT), Dean Heller (R-NV), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Gary Peters (D-MI), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Robert Casey (D-PA), John Barrasso (R-WY), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Angus King (I-ME), John Thune (R-SD), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tim Scott (R-SC), Al Franken (D-MN), David Perdue (R-GA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), James Risch (R-ID), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Tom Udall (D-NM), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chris Coons (D-DE), David Vitter (R-LA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), James Lankford (R-OK), Jack Reed (D-RI), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Hoeven (R-ND), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Steve Daines (R-MT), and Rob Portman (R-OH). Below is the full text of the letter: Dear Mr. President: As you prepare to attend the United Nations General Assembly, we write to address the issue of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. At a time of great challenges in the Middle East, we are disappointed that talks between Israelis and Palestinians remain stalled. The only way to resolve the conflicts between the two is through direct negotiations that lead to a sustainable two-state solution with a future state of Palestine living in peace and security with Israel. This outcome would provide Israel with greater security and strengthen regional stability. We remain optimistic that, under the right circumstances, Israelis and Palestinians can successfully resume productive negotiations toward this goal. At this delicate stage the international community should both provide hope to the parties and avoid taking action that would harm the prospects for meaningful progress. Even well-intentioned initiatives at the United Nations (UN) risk locking the parties into positions that will make it more difficult to return to the negotiating table and make the compromises necessary for peace. The United States remains an indispensable trusted mediator between the parties, and we must continue to insist that neither we nor any other outsider substitute for the parties to the conflict. Your administration has consistently upheld the longstanding U.S. policy of opposing – and if necessary vetoing – one-sided UN Security Council (UNSC) resolutions. As U.S. Ambassador to the UN, the Honorable Susan Rice summarized your Administration’s position well when she exercised America’s veto on a February 2011 resolution: “It is the Israelis’ and Palestinians’ conflict, and even the best-intentioned outsiders cannot resolve it for them. Therefore every potential action must be measured against one overriding standard: will it move the parties closer to negotiations and an agreement? Unfortunately, this draft resolution risks hardening the positions of both sides. It could encourage the parties to stay out of negotiations and, if and when they did resume, to return to the Security Council whenever they reach an impasse.” Mr. President, you also clearly stated in your September 2011 address to the General Assembly, “Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at the United Nations – if it were that easy, it would have been accomplished by now. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians who must live side by side. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians – not us –- who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them…. Ultimately, peace depends upon compromise among people who must live together long after our speeches are over, long after our votes have been tallied.” We could not agree more with these statements. We urge you to continue longstanding U.S. policy and make it clear that you will veto any one-sided UNSC resolution that may be offered in the coming months. Any such resolution, whether focused on settlements or other final status issues, will ultimately make it more difficult for Israelis and Palestinians to resolve the conflict. Sincerely, ###
09.19.2016	09.19.16 Rounds Accepting Spring 2017 Internship Applications WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for spring 2017. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is October 14, 2016. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than October 14, 2016. Resumes should be submitted to intern coordinator Erin Budmayr at erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450. ###
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Rounds’ RESPECT Act Passes Senate Indian Affairs Committee Unanimously RESPECT Act would repeal outdated statutes related to the federal government’s treatment of Native American citizens WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today praised the Senate Indian Affairs Committee’s unanimous passage of his Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions Encouraging Conciliation with Tribes Act (RESPECT Act). This legislation would repeal several outdated, offensive federal laws against Native Americans, including laws that allow for the forced removal of Native American children from their homes to be sent to boarding schools and laws subjecting Native Americans to forced labor. “The laws that would be repealed under the RESPECT Act are a sad reminder of the hostile aggression and overt racism displayed by the early federal government toward Native Americans,” said Rounds. “The idea that these laws were ever considered is disturbing, but the fact that they remain part of our legal code today is, at best, an oversight. I thank Senate Indian Affairs Committee Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), and all the members of the committee, for moving the RESPECT Act forward today.” The RESPECT Act now heads to the full Senate floor for further action. More information on the RESPECT Act can be found here. ###
09.13.2016	09.13.16 Rounds Joins Colleagues on Senate Floor Urging Vote on Defense Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined his fellow freshmen colleagues on the Senate floor to reinforce the importance of funding our military operations through the appropriations process. Senate Democrats have blocked consideration of the 2017 defense appropriations bill six times, despite it passing unanimously out of the Senate Appropriations Committee earlier this year. “The Senate Appropriations Committee unanimously approved [the defense appropriations bill] by a vote of 30-0 earlier this year,” said Rounds during his speech on the Senate floor. “The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which passed the committee, also adheres to the bipartisan budget agreement that was signed into law last year and it refrains from any gimmicks and other controversial measures.” “This senseless obstructionism from the other side of the aisle comes at a time in which, according to a recent Fox News poll, a record-high 54 percent of American voters believe the United States is less safe now than it was before the 9/11 attacks. Continuing to block any appropriations bill is ill-advised, but blocking the defense appropriations bill causes unnecessary uncertainty and endangers our national security efforts.” Link to video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=StwAWLXAJb4&feature=youtu.be ###
09.13.2016	09.13.16 Rounds Announces Staff Changes in Northeast South Dakota WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced the promotion of Josh Haeder to Regional Director in Northeast South Dakota. Additionally, Katie Murray, a Constituent Services Representative, is relocating to Brookings and will be based out of Rounds’ Sioux Falls office. “Josh knows South Dakota, particularly the James River Valley,” said Rounds. “He has excelled by focusing on developing strong relationships with residents and communities throughout the region. Some of the best legislative efforts start at the local level. Josh understands the big picture and has been critical in that effort.” Haeder has served as Senior Field Manager since January 2015. Haeder will continue to focus on constituent services and outreach in the James River Valley. He is based out of Huron with a satellite office in Aberdeen. Prior to joining Senator Rounds’ office, Haeder was the Chief Operating Officer of a credit counseling agency. His past experience also includes business and ag banking. “Katie is a lifelong South Dakotan with a passion for serving and helping others,” said Rounds. “She has been an asset to my team since the day I took office. In the past 20 months, she has gained valuable knowledge by helping South Dakotans who may be having trouble with a federal agency. I look forward to having a stronger presence in the Brookings area as she and her husband relocate.” Katie has served as a Constituent Services Representative in Rounds’ Rapid City office since January 2015. She is a graduate of Black Hills State University. ###
08.30.2016	08.30.16 Rounds Opening Statement at Subcommittee Hearing in Rapid City Hearing Entitled, “Oversight of the Impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Fish and Wildlife Service Regulations on Citizens’ Private Property Rights.” RAPID CITY – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the following remarks at his hearing entitled, “Oversight of the Impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Fish and Wildlife Service Regulations on Citizens’ Private Property Rights.” Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a field hearing entitled “Oversight of the Impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Fish and Wildlife Service Regulations on Citizens’ Private Property Rights.” I would like to thank our witnesses for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. Throughout this Congress, this subcommittee has conducted systematic oversight of the federal regulatory process to make certain federal regulations are promulgated in a transparent, open process with adequate public participation. We have held hearings conducting oversight on various aspects of the rulemaking process, including the adequacy of the science the agencies rely on when promulgating regulations, the increasing number of unfunded mandates agencies impose on state and local governments, and the impacts these regulations have on small businesses and state and local governments. Today we will continue our oversight and hear testimony about how Environmental Protection Agency and Fish and Wildlife Service regulations affect citizens’ private property rights. We will hear about how increasing regulations affect citizens’ ability to use, develop and prosper while working their land. We will also hear from the agencies as to how they work with the public to assist the public in understanding regulations, as well as offering suggestions as to how this relationship between the agencies and the public can be improved, and how the regulatory process can be improved to minimize the impact of regulations on private land. According to the American Action Forum, since taking office the Obama administration has finalized 2,856 regulations. These regulation have cost the American people nearly $810 billion dollars since 2009. Of these finalized regulations, 167 of them have come from the Environmental Protection Agency, and have cost American taxpayers $312 billion dollars – nearly half of the total cost of all regulations finalized by this administration. Not only are the costs of these regulations passed on to all citizens, but landowners who bear the burden of complying with many of these regulations have limited resources to comply with these burdensome, costly and complicated regulations. In 2015, the EPA moved forward with finalizing the Waters of the US Rule, broadly expanding the Clean Water Act, which would give the EPA unprecedented authority over significant land masses not currently subject to EPA jurisdiction. This rule creates significant hurdles to normal agricultural operations, and despite the EPA’s claims that the rule will have minimal economic impact, the final rule is contrary to the comments of agriculture groups, the Small Business Administration and numerous state governors and attorneys general. Although the Sixth Circuit Court issued a nationwide stay on the rule, we have heard evidence that the U.S. Army Corps may be moving forward with implementing the WOTUS rule. However, the U.S. court system should not be the primary backstop against overly burdensome rules. If the EPA worked more closely with landowners, states, and agriculture groups throughout the rulemaking process, the end result would be better rules that minimize the impact and costs on private landowners and American business while still achieving the goal of environmental protection. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is responsible for implementing and enforcing the Endangered Species Act. The Endangered Species Act was enacted by Congress in 1973 with the goal of protecting and recovering endangered and threatened species and their habitats. There are currently 1,226 species listed as endangered and 367 listed as threatened in the United States under the Endangered Species Act and approximately half of the listed species have 80 percent of their habitat on private land. While the Fish and Wildlife Service attempts to work with landowners to encourage voluntary species management and conservation, the ESA continues to impede landowner’s ability to utilize and develop their land by imposing significant restrictions on what landowners can do on their own land. Adding to the regulatory maze that landowners face, is the confusion caused by the myriad of lawsuits that can change or stop a regulation from being implemented based on a court’s ruling. These lawsuits simply add more confusion to an already complex regulatory process. While lawsuits challenging the WOTUS rule resulted in a nationwide injunction, it was also a lawsuit that has led the Fish and Wildlife Service to review the potential listing of more than 250 species for consideration on the Endangered Species List. It is landowners, and not the federal government, who are the best stewards of their land. However, more often than not, federal agencies impose burdensome, complicated regulations and dictate to landowners what they believe is the best way to conserve our land and our resources. Rather than creating an adversarial relationship, agencies should strive to work in cooperation with landowners towards the shared goal of environmental conservation. Again, I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Selection Process for United States Senate Youth Program is Underway WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) announced the annual statewide selection process for the United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) has begun. Two South Dakota high school juniors or seniors will join student delegates from around the country to participate in the USSYP’s 57th annual Washington Week, which will take place March 2-9, 2019, in Washington, D.C. “Participating in the U.S. Senate Youth Program is a great way for students to learn firsthand about the way our federal government works,” said Rounds. “I encourage any South Dakota high school student who has an interest in learning more about policy making and public service to apply to this unique, educational program.” “This program provides the opportunity of a lifetime for young leaders from South Dakota to get a firsthand look into the inner workings of the U.S. government,” said Thune. “On top of spending a week in the thick of the action in Washington, students participating in USSYP will also receive a scholarship to help further their educational pursuits. I encourage all student leaders across the state to apply.” Each of the student delegates will receive a $10,000 undergraduate college scholarship and an all-expense paid trip to Washington, D.C., for next year’s program. During their trip to Washington, student delegates will visit Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon, and the Supreme Court, among other locations, and will meet with policymakers, which in the past have included members of Congress, the president, and cabinet secretaries. Students interested in applying for next year’s program can find more information by visiting the South Dakota Department of Education website or by contacting Mark Gageby (mark.gageby@state.sd.us), the South Dakota selection administrator, or their school’s principal. The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, September 21, 2018, and the names of the students who have been selected will be formally announced in December. ###
07.28.2016	07.28.16 Rounds Presents Medals to Revillo Resident Jerry Schafer PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) presented the Navy Good Conduct Medal and the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with “V” Device to Jerry Schafer of Revillo, S.D. in recognition of Schafer’s service in the Vietnam War. “I was honored to join the Schafer family and their friends at the medal presentation honoring Jerry’s service in the Vietnam War,” said Rounds. “Jerry selflessly served our country in Vietnam, and it is fitting that he be recognized for his bravery in combat and his service to the United States.” The Commendation Medal with “V” Device is awarded for valorous actions in direct contact with an enemy. The Navy Good Conduct Medal is presented to active-duty enlisted member of the United States Navy who complete three consecutive years of honorable and faithful service. ###
07.20.2016	07.20.16 Rounds Joins 69 Colleagues in Letter to CFPB Requesting Changes to Banking Regulations PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined 69 of his fellow senators in a letter to Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Richard Cordray, requesting the CFPB tailor its regulations to match the risk profile of credit unions and community banks when crafting regulations. Last week, Rounds introduced the TAILOR Act, which would require federal regulatory agencies, including the CFPB, to take similar steps to make sure the agencies consider the risk profile and business models of individual financial institutions and tailor those regulations accordingly. “In both good economic times and bad, community banks and credit unions serve as pillars of their communities, providing the capital and access to credit that families and small businesses need to grow,” wrote the senators. “We agree that it is important for consumers to be empowered to take more control over their economic lives, and that bad actors should be rooted out of the financial marketplace. However, the CFPB must also consider its impact on community-based depository lenders, who are essential to spurring economic growth and prosperity at a local level, and not disrupt the good work of community lenders to help someone start a business, buy a home or car, or put their kids through college.” Rounds also urged his colleagues to cosponsor the TAILOR Act: “Similarly, my TAILOR Act would codify into law the requirement that federal agencies, CFPB included, tailor their regulations by taking into consideration the risk profile and business models of individual financial institutions. I am pleased so many of my colleagues agree that federal regulators should tailor their regulations for smaller financial institutions so they can focus their resources on taking care of their customers, rather than spending time and money on regulatory compliance. I welcome them to cosponsor the TAILOR Act.” The letter was led by Sens. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), and signed by Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Bob Casey (D-Pa.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Dan Coats (R-Ind.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Lindsay Graham (R-S.C.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Angus King (I-Maine), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), James Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), David Vitter (R-La.), Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.). Full text of the letter: The Honorable Richard Cordray Director Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) 1700 G Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20552 Dear Director Cordray, In both good economic times and bad, community banks and credit unions serve as pillars of their communities, providing the capital and access to credit that families and small businesses need to grow. That is why Congress and federal regulators have long taken the approach that credit unions and community banks should be treated differently from the largest financial institutions and non-bank lenders. It is our hope that the CFPB also takes this approach and considers the impact of its rule-making on smaller financial institutions and consumers. We request that the CFPB carefully tailor its regulations to match the unique nature of community banks and credit unions. As it has now been more than six years since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), there are many new rules and regulations in place. We must ensure that credit unions and community banks are not unduly burdened by compliance, but rather have the ability to maintain their close relationships and continue to offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services. We agree that it is important for consumers to be empowered to take more control over their economic lives, and that bad actors should be rooted out of the financial marketplace. However, the CFPB must also consider its impact on community-based depository lenders, who are essential to spurring economic growth and prosperity at a local level, and not disrupt the good work of community lenders to help someone start a business, buy a home or car, or put their kids through college. Since we all recognize these community lenders were not the primary cause of the financial crisis, the CFPB must carefully tailor its rulemaking. Dodd-Frank explicitly granted the CFPB the authority to tailor regulations in Section 1022(b)(3)(A) by allowing the CFPB to “exempt any class” of entity from its regulatory requirements. We believe the CFPB has robust tailoring authority and ask that you act accordingly to prevent any unintended consequences that negatively impact community banks and credit unions or unnecessarily limit their ability to serve consumers. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to working with you on this important matter. ###
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Rounds, Donnelly Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Protect Veterans’ Credit Scores Legislation would protect veterans from unfair financial harm due to delays at the VA PIERRE— U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) announced today they have introduced bipartisan legislation that would protect the credit ratings of veterans wrongly penalized by delays in reimbursements for medical bills by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). In addition to experiencing long wait times and issues making appointments through the Veterans Choice Program, veterans are also getting billed inappropriately for services because the VA has failed to pay health care providers in a timely fashion. These bills, which should be covered by VA benefits, can create financial hardship for veterans and damage their credit scores. The Protecting Veterans’ Credit Act would delay for one year medical debt from being reported to credit agencies for veterans who have accessed services through the Veterans Choice Program and other similar VA community care programs. This would allow time for payment issues to be resolved without impacting veterans’ credit scores. “No veteran should have to worry about a lower credit rating and all the costs associated with it because of delays in payment and processing from the VA,” said Rounds. “Our legislation makes certain that veterans do not suffer financial hardship – through no fault of their own – when they choose to use a private health provider through the Choice program. Our veterans should be focused on proper treatment and recovery; not whether receiving care will affect their credit rating.” “Hoosier veterans and their credit ratings can be harmed as a result of delays by the VA, which can make it harder to buy a house, rent an apartment, buy a car, or even get a job,” said Donnelly. This bipartisan bill would provide relief directly to the men and women who served our country with honor and distinction. They deserve access to quality and timely health care services and the benefits they have earned, without worrying it will lead to financial ruin.” Several advocacy and veterans’ advocacy organizations have expressed their support for the legislation including the Vietnam Veterans of America, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, and the National Patient Advocate Foundation. “Medical debt wrecks disaster on patients and their families,” said Alan Balch, CEO, National Patient Advocate Foundation & Patient Advocate Foundation. “No one deserves to be a casualty of the effects of medical debt, but veterans least of all. The provisions in the Protecting Veterans Credit Act will help defend our veterans from the toxicity of medical debt and its long-term impacts, and ensure they do not suffer a credit loss incurred through no fault of their own when fighting an unpredictable or unforeseen illness. A lowered credit rating or bankruptcy should never be the collateral damage of a veteran seeking medical care.” Congressman John Delaney (MD-06) recently led the introduction of bipartisan companion legislation in the U.S. of House of Representatives. ###
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Delegation Introduces Legislation to Enhance State’s Outdoor Opportunities WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced legislation that would facilitate a federal-state land exchange that includes nearly 2,000 acres of federally owned land in the Spearfish Canyon and Bismarck Lake areas and nearly 2,000 acres of land in four separate state-owned parcels. U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives. The delegation introduced its respective bills in response to a request from Gov. Dennis Daugaard (R-S.D.). “Tourists come from all over the world to catch a glimpse of our unique landscape and natural resources,” said Rounds. “This exchange will allow the state to manage more land near two popular tourist sites in the Black Hills—Custer State Park and Roughlock Falls, located near the Spearfish Canyon Lodge. I thank Sen. Thune and Rep. Noem for their work on this legislation, and I look forward to continuing to work with them and the state of South Dakota to see this transfer through.” “The state of South Dakota has proven time and again that it can preserve and protect South Dakota’s natural resources while providing unparalleled outdoor experiences that attract people from across the state and nation,” said Thune. “I’m confident this track record will lend itself to creating similar opportunities in the Spearfish Canyon and Bismarck Lake areas once this land exchange is completed.” “Like so many families in South Dakota and across the nation, ours is enamored with Spearfish Canyon,” said Noem. “In the busy chaos of life, you can find peace and serenity there that is unmatched. South Dakota has shown over and over again that we can provide access to sites like this while preserving them for our children and grandchildren to enjoy as well. I’m proud to work with Senators Thune and Rounds to bring this state treasure under local control.” The land exchange would include 1,468 federally owned acres in the Spearfish Canyon area and 524 federally owned acres in the Bismarck Lake area, which includes Camp Bob Marshall, land leased by the U.S. Forest Service to the Western Dakota 4-H Camp Association for youth camps. The state-owned portion of the exchange includes approximately 1,954 acres of land in separate parcels. Click here for text of the Senate version and here for text of the House version. ###
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Rounds Statement on Reopening of Rosebud Hospital Emergency Department WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the reopening of the emergency department at the Rosebud Indian Health Service (IHS) hospital, which had been closed since December 2015. IHS announced today that the hospital is set to reopen tomorrow, July 15, 2016, and will resume 24-hour, 7-day-a-week care. “The news that IHS and the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services have agreed to reopen the emergency department at the Rosebud IHS hospital is a positive step toward better and timely health care for patients,” said Rounds. “Emergency room services are an essential part of any hospital. However, there is still much work to be done to make certain our tribal members are receiving adequate and timely care. The problems within the bureaucracy of IHS, along with the lack of adequate consultation with tribes, are ongoing. I still believe that an outside audit is the best first step toward making significant, systemic changes at IHS.” Rounds sent a letter this month to the Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General requesting an audit of the financial aspects of hospital and health care, medical services and overall financial management at IHS. ###
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Rounds Introduces Bill to Provide Regulatory Relief for Community Financial Institutions WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act. This bill would provide regulatory relief for community banks and credit unions by exempting them from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) revised Regulation C final rule, which amends the 1975 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). “More and more of our community banks and credit unions in South Dakota have stopped offering mortgage lending services simply because they can’t afford to comply with the costly, time-consuming requirements of regulations coming out of Washington,” said Rounds. “Regulations like the revised HMDA rule force community banks and credit unions to divert resources away from providing financial services to their communities and instead direct them to comply with onerous regulations. My bill will alleviate compliance hurdles facing many of our community banks and credit unions and allow them to do what they do best—serve their customers and strengthen our communities.” HMDA was enacted in 1975. The act requires certain financial institutions to provide the public, and public officials, with mortgage data to determine if financial institutions are properly serving the communities in which they are located. Following the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, rulemaking authority for HMDA was transferred to the CFPB. The CFPB revised HMDA to require community banks and credit unions to collect nearly 50 unique data points on loan applications and share that information with the federal government. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act would raise the thresholds for the number of closed- and open-end loans a financial institution can originate before being subject to HMDA reporting requirements. This would allow more community financial institutions to be exempt from the HMDA rule. The bill would raise the number of closed-end loans financial institutions can originate from 25 to 100 per calendar year. It would increase the number of open-end lines of credit from 100 to 200. ###
07.11.2016	07.11.16 Rounds Introduces Bill to Ease Regulatory Burden on Local Banks & Credit Unions WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today introduced the Taking Account of Institutions with Low Operation Risk (TAILOR) Act, a bill to require federal regulatory agencies to take risk profiles and business models of institutions into account when crafting regulations. “Since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, smaller financial institutions in particular have been negatively impacted by burdensome, unnecessary regulations because of disproportionate compliance costs,” said Rounds. “These disproportionate costs and regulatory hurdles have hurt consumers the most. The TAILOR Act would ease the regulatory burden on smaller financial institutions so they can focus their resources on taking care of their customers, rather than spending time and money on regulatory compliance. This will allow them to better meet the needs of families and local businesses, which will in turn lead to a stronger economy and healthier communities across the state.” “South Dakota is home to some of the smallest and the largest banks in the world, with wide variations in their business models,” said Curt Everson, President of the South Dakota Bankers Association. “Bankers from those institutions agree that today’s one-size-fits-all regulatory scheme doesn’t make sense. We applaud Senator Rounds for introducing the TAILOR Act to start the conversation about matching bank regulation to risk.” The TAILOR Act would require regulatory agencies, such as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to take into consideration the risk profile and business models of individual financial institutions and tailor those regulations accordingly. Additionally, the bill requires the regulatory agencies to provide an annual report to Congress outlining the steps they have taken to tailor their regulations. The TAILOR Act also requires regulators to conduct a review of all the regulations issued by the agencies since the 2010 passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. If the review finds that the regulations issued since 2010 do not conform to the TAILOR Act, the agency would be required to revise the regulations. ###
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Rounds Cosponsors Bill to Revoke Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s Security Clearance WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today cosponsored the Taking Responsibility Using Secured Technologies (TRUST) Act of 2016, which would revoke Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s security clearance as well as the security clearances of Secretary Clinton’s colleagues at the State Department who exhibited extreme carelessness in their handling of classified information. Additionally, the TRUST Act expresses the sense of Congress that Secretary Clinton should not have access to classified information unless she earns the legal right to such access. “In a press conference this week, FBI Director James Comey made clear that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and her staff were ‘extremely careless’ and clearly mishandled highly-classified information that could have compromised our national security,” said Rounds. “Because the FBI and Department of Justice do not intend to move forward with charges, Congress is taking action to remove any possibility of these individuals mishandling sensitive national security information again. Access to classified information is a serious responsibility; at a minimum, they should not be trusted to handle this sensitive national security information in the future.” The legislation follows the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) investigation into Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal e-mail system in her capacity as Secretary of State. In an announcement earlier this week, FBI Director James Comey said that “there is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information” and “none of these e-mails should have been on any kind of unclassified system, but their presence is especially concerning because all of these e-mails were housed on unclassified personal servers not even supported by full-time security staff.” The FBI uncovered several thousand additional emails related to her position, some of which contained classified material, that were not included in the 30,000 emails Clinton handed over to the State Department. Comey concluded the FBI’s findings with “we assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail account.” Comey stated the investigation initially focused on whether classified information was transmitted on Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail system. It evolved to determine whether there is evidence that classified information was not properly transmitted or stored on that personal e-mail system and whether there is evidence that the system was hacked by foreign or hostile hackers. While Comey confirmed that classified information was transmitted and stored improperly and the personal e-mail system may have been hacked, he formally recommended that no charges be filed against Secretary Clinton.
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Rounds: VA’s Veteran Suicide Study Reinforces Need to Address Mental Health Care of Vets Introduces Bill to Improve Mental Health Care at the VA WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced the Protection and Advocacy for Veterans Act. This legislation would establish a pilot program to improve the monitoring and oversight of mental health and substance abuse treatment programs within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by authorizing independent advocates for veterans receiving inadequate health care from the VA. Earlier today, the VA released key findings of a comprehensive analysis of veteran suicide rates in the U.S., examining more than 55 million veteran records from 1979 to 2014 from every state in the nation. The analysis concluded that veteran suicide rates are higher than the national average; approximately 20 veterans commit suicide every day. While the data showed the suicide rate for veterans who receive care at VA facilities was lower than for those who did not, the overall suicide rate for veterans enrolled in the VA system continues to increase. “Making sure all veterans receive the quality health care they have been promised remains one of my top priorities,” said Rounds. “While there are many problems plaguing the VA, the agency’s study on veteran suicide is a sobering reminder that mental health care is among the most important. Even one veteran suicide is one too many. Our returning service men and women struggle with the invisible wounds of war long after they leave the battlefield and many suffer in silence. My legislation will give a voice to veterans who need mental health care or who are unhappy with the care they have been given by the VA by supplying them with independent advocates who will act on their behalf.” The pilot program would be created under the Protection and Advocacy (P&A) program, which is in place in all states and territories of the United States. The purpose of the P&A system is to protect the rights of patients through legally-based advocacy. Under this legislation, highly-trained, independent patient advocates would be placed in a limited number of low-performing VA medical facilities to proactively intervene and monitor the mental health care and substance abuse treatment on behalf of patients. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House by Rep. Martha Roby (R-Ala.). Key findings of the VA’s analysis includes: 65 percent of all veterans who died from suicide in 2014 were 50 years of age or older. Veterans accounted for 18 percent of all deaths from suicide among U.S. adults. Since 2001, U.S. adult civilian suicides increased 23 percent, while veteran suicides increased 32 percent in the same time period. After controlling for age and gender, this makes the risk of suicide 21 percent greater for veterans. Since 2001, the rate of suicide among U.S. veterans who use VA services increased by 8.8 percent. In the same time period, the rate of suicide among male veterans who use VA services increased 11 percent. In the same time period, the rate of suicide among female veterans who use VA services increased 4.6 percent. The full report will be publicly released later this month. ###
07.06.2016	07.06.16 Rounds Requests Audit of Indian Health Service WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today formally requested an audit of the financial aspects of hospital and health care, medical services and overall financial management at Indian Health Service (IHS). In a letter sent to the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Rounds outlined specific areas of focus for the audit based on an in-depth profile analysis conducted by Rounds and his staff. “Despite the agency’s well-documented history of failing to meet trust obligations by not providing quality health care, there has never been a systemic review of IHS to address and ultimately reform these issues in attempt to improve health outcomes for tribal members. Furthermore, there has been a continuing lack of consultation with the tribes,” wrote Rounds. “Based on our review, our office has identified primary areas of concern with IHS’s administrative management, financial management and the quality of care delivered at IHS facilities. We are attempting to address many of the administrative concerns through legislation in the House and Senate. We believe an audit, similar to what was recently conducted at the Veterans Health Administration, which identified shortfalls and recommended solutions, is a potential model for addressing these critical financial and quality issues within IHS.” During a Senate Indian Affairs Committee field hearing in Rapid City on June 17, 2016, HHS Acting Deputy Secretary Mary Wakefield stated that she ‘would welcome’ such an audit. Similarly, on April 15, 2016, the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association passed a resolution urging Congress to demand an audit of IHS. The full text of the letter is available below: July 6, 2016 The Honorable Daniel R. Levinson U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office of Inspector General 330 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Inspector General Levinson: Pursuant to the United States trust obligations to Native American tribes, the federal government established Indian Health Service (IHS) to provide health care for federally recognized tribal members. However, for decades IHS has been criticized by tribes and federal officials for their shortcomings outlined in numerous Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports. Despite the agency’s well-documented history of failing to meet trust obligations by not providing quality health care, there has never been a systemic review of IHS to address and ultimately reform these issues in attempt to improve health outcomes for tribal members. Furthermore, there has been a continuing lack of consultation with the tribes. Most recently, a Great Plains Area hospital diverted emergency services because the hospital has been unable to meet basic requirements set by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). It now faces potential termination of its CMS certification. Additionally, a second hospital within the Great Plains Area lost its CMS certification and two other Great Plains Area hospitals are in jeopardy of losing this necessary requirement. We believe these CMS issues plaguing the Great Plains Area IHS facilities appear to be symptoms of a larger problem. Therefore, our office has been researching IHS’s history, funding, systems management and organizational structure. During our review, we have evaluated GAO reports, Congressional Research Service (CRS) publications and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) fiscal year budget books. Further, we have had discussions with IHS officials and continue to have frequent communication with tribal leadership. Our analysis strongly suggests there are indeed systemic management and quality concerns. In the Great Plains Area, particularly in South Dakota, this issue has reached a crisis stage. People are literally dying waiting for a solution. Based on our review, our office has identified primary areas of concern with IHS’s administrative management, financial management and the quality of care delivered at IHS facilities. We are attempting to address many of the administrative concerns through legislation in the House and Senate. We believe an audit, similar to what was recently conducted at the Veterans Health Administration, which identified shortfalls and recommended solutions, is a potential model for addressing these critical financial and quality issues within IHS. Such action is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association, which recently passed a resolution calling upon Congress to demand an audit of IHS (enclosed). I specifically mentioned the idea of an IHS financial audit to HHS Acting Deputy Secretary Mary Wakefield during the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs field hearing on June 17, 2016. Dr. Wakefield responded that HHS “would welcome” such an audit. With your support and understanding of the need to identify issues of concern with IHS, I am respectfully asking you to pursue this important investigation. My request is as follows: AUDIT OF THE HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEMS AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROCESSES OF THE INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE. I am respectfully requesting that you conduct an audit of the financial aspects of hospital and health care, medical services and overall financial management of Indian Health Service (IHS) within the Department of Health and Human Services. I request the audit address each of the following: Budget Allocation and Distribution: There is no funding formula to determine how the budget is distributed between regions; just historical distribution. How is IHS able to appropriately operate without an overall funding formula? How does IHS arrive at their distribution decisions without a formula? Are there specific reasons for not having such a formula? How are area directors informed of their budget allocation and how are they instructed to distribute their allocation amongst the area’s facilities? Are local facilities able to manage their own budget or do they wait to receive allocation from the area office? IHS has previously estimated that, in FY2015, it would have needed an additional $645 million to provide additional services for Purchased and Referred Care (PRC) eligible IHS beneficiaries. What is a realistic analysis of PRC shortages? How does each area employ their PRC program and medical priority levels? Why do different areas have different medical priority levels? Is the amount spent on administration compared with direct health care comparable to private health care standards? What is the allocation of budget spent on administration compared with the allocation of budget spent on direct health care? Does this vary between IHS-operated and Tribally-operated facilities? Tribal members report that a facility may have a number of vacant positions, yet the facility is not actively advertising employment opportunities. There is speculation that some full-time equivalent (FTE) positions are created with no intent to fill, but to support a high salary classification for a supervisor. Are there FTE employees that IHS has no intention to fill/has not filled for over 36 months? i. Since the vacancy rate is so high, what happens with the budgeted personnel money that is not spent because FTE’s are open? Is this money redeployed? ii. If so, how is the redeployment of funds determined? According to IHS’ annual budget book, there are 3700 “Medicaid reimbursable FTE.” i. How many are certified coders? ii. Is this amount necessary? Are there consistent tracking of “dual eligible” patients (e.g. Patients eligible for Medicaid, IHS and/or other federal healthcare programs)? How are “dual eligible” patients managed? We noticed extreme discrepancies in the HHS Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Budget Book for IHS. The FY2017 annual budget book showed that IHS intended to spend $40 million more on tribally-operated facilities compared to federally-operated facilities in the Great Plains Area, even with the area being highly IHS-operated. IHS/HHS officials analyzed this discrepancy and recently posted revised documents showcasing almost an $80 million change in funding distribution in the Great Plains Area alone. Were these errors only documented incorrectly, or was this funding inappropriately distributed too? What was the budget justification for suddenly correcting the error? How many years has this error gone unnoticed? Were area directors made aware of this error? If so, when? If the funding was correctly distributed, how were area directors correctly distributing this funding while not noticing the budget book error? Facilities and Asset Management: Management structure and process for construction and maintenance projects, the facilities leasing process, the purchasing, distribution and use of pharmaceuticals, medical and surgical supplies, medical devices and equipment. How are long-term growth facility construction plans determined? Is there a priority based upon population trends, history and care demands? What analysis is considered? Are buildings depreciated at a 30-year lifecycle? What happens at the end of the lifecycle, are they remodeled or replaced? Is the maintenance budget updated/increased to reflect increase maintenance expense with the addition of new facilities? Is the increase enough to support the growth of facilities? How is equipment purchased and deployed? Is there a comprehensive plan for maintaining basic necessary equipment? How do facilities request equipment maintenance and upgrades? What resources are available to satisfy these requests? How many procurement contracts/awards were authorized by IHS utilizing the Buy Indian Act (48 C.F.R. 370.501) authority? How does this compare to all awards/contracts made through IHS in the last five years? What process do IHS facilities use to ensure compliance with 48 C.F.R. 370.501? Transparency: There has been a lack in transparency in the culture of IHS for many years. Tribal leadership has consistently requested for increased transparency and more open communication between the IHS and the people they serve. How are tribal/residual shares determined for each tribe? What are those share amounts? How are funds distributed from area office budgets to local service units? Are there set formulas or budgets for this? How does IHS audit or evaluate that funds were distributed appropriately? Are there periodic or end-of-year records to document how the budget is actually distributed? Are these records audited following generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)? Are there checks and balances to assess potential fraud or misuse of funds? We look forward to working with you to address the issues we have already identified and to learn more about other issues that your investigation uncovers. My office would be happy to provide any resources available to us to assist in your efforts. We would also be available to meet to discuss any questions or refinements to this request. Please contact Gregg Rickman of Senator Rounds, at 202-224-5842 if you or your staff have any questions concerning this request. Sincerely, M. Michael Rounds United States Senator ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate Chairman David Flute Testifies in Support of Rounds’ RESPECT Act WASHINGTON—Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate Chairman David Flute testified today at a Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing in support of S. 2796, the RESPECT Act, which was introduced by Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) in April 2016. The RESPECT Act would repeal a number of antiquated, obsolete statutes related to the treatment of Native Americans by the federal government that are still part of current law. Chairman Flute said in his testimony, “Senator Rounds introduced the RESPECT Act, S. 2796, to strike some of the laws which have historically disadvantaged our Indian nations and our people. For example, there are still laws on the books for the removal of our children from our homes to be sent to compulsory boarding schools run by military officers, where the mantra was ‘Kill the Indian, Save the Man.’” “The laws concerning withholding rations, meaning food, from our people for ‘hostility’ to the United States, or truancy, should be struck from the books…Native Americans should all be fully included in America as U.S. citizens and citizens of our Native Nations, with respect for our rights to Freedom, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness.” Examples of the laws that the RESPECT Act would repeal include provisions that allow for the forced removal of Native American children from their homes to be sent to boarding schools. If their parents refused, they would be denied rations. Additionally, Native Americans can still be subject to forced labor on their reservations, as a condition of their receipt of “supplies.” To read more about the RESPECT Act, click here. ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on EPA Enforcement Actions WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the opening statement at his hearing entitled, “Oversight of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Enforcement and Compliance Programs.” The purpose of today’s hearing is to conduct oversight related to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) enforcement actions. Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing entitled “Oversight of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Enforcement and Compliance Programs.” Today we will hear testimony from Cynthia Giles, the Assistant Administrator of the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We will be conducting oversight on the EPA’s civil, criminal enforcement, and compliance programs and explore suggestions for improvement. Federal laws such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act give the EPA the authority to issue penalties and pursue criminal and civil actions in order to enforce requirements of environmental laws. The EPA Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, or, OECA, administers EPA’s environmental enforcement and compliance programs and provides compliance assistance to the EPA’s regional offices, states, businesses, local governments and tribes. However, in recent years, rather than providing compliance assistance, the EPA has dictated compliance by engaging in heavy-handed environmental enforcement. We have heard multiple reports of the EPA inspecting facilities and leaving the company waiting years for the results, imposing huge fines on companies that self-reported and corrected simple administrative errors, and a lack of transparency regarding environmental violations. Rather than assisting with compliance, the EPA chooses to simply impose aggressive and - at times - unreasonable penalties using questionable enforcement methods. For example, in 2015 the EPA threatened Andy Johnson, a Wyoming farmer and father of four, with $16 million dollars in fines alleging he had violated the Clean Water Act by constructing a stock pond on his property. It took the Johnson family over a year to settle a lawsuit with the EPA. In 2012, the EPA was criticized for using aerial surveillance over farms in Iowa and Nebraska to investigate Clean Water Act violations, rather than speaking with the landowners personally about the alleged violations. And most alarmingly, in 2010, an EPA Regional Administrator was quoted as saying he wanted to “crucify” oil and gas companies like Roman conquerors, with the goal of making them “easy to manage for the next few years.” Tactics and statements like this by EPA officials who are supposed to be working collaboratively with stakeholders are worrisome and lead to serious questions regarding the integrity of the EPA enforcement process. Further, the EPA has expanded their use of section 114 information requests under the Clean Air Act. “Section 114 letters” allow the EPA to collect information from covered entities for use in developing a regulation or as part of an investigation for an enforcement action. The EPA has increasingly issued section 114 letters to companies who are not the target of an enforcement action but merely may have information relevant to a separate investigation, of which they are not a part of. These information requests are extremely burdensome, can cost companies hundreds of thousands of dollars, and - despite the fact that the company receiving the request is not involved in an enforcement action, they can still be subject to criminal and civil penalties if they do not accurately comply with these requests in a timely fashion. Additionally, the EPA has begun the implementation of their Next Generation Compliance Initiative which, among other things, would outsource EPA enforcement responsibilities to third-party auditors who would take the place of actual EPA personnel in enforcing environmental laws. We all want clean air and clean water. Compliance with environmental laws is a requirement and there should be repercussions for breaking those laws. However, when an agency unfairly targets certain sectors of the economy or imposes large fines on small companies who take the time to voluntarily self-report, or whose only recourse is to pay the fine because they do not have the resources to engage in a time consuming lawsuit, it runs contrary to the true intent the EPA’s enforcement program. The EPA should strive to be a resource that assists with environmental compliance rather than an agency that simply uses fines and scare tactics the dictate compliance. When the EPA works in a transparent cooperative fashion with the regulated community, taxpayer dollars will be better managed, environmental laws will be more effective, and our environment will be cleaner for it. I’d like to thank our witness for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Rounds Issues Statement on Senate Passage of BUILD Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate passage of S. 1479, the Brownfields Utilization, Investment, and Local Development (BUILD) Act, of which he is a cosponsor. The legislation passed by unanimous consent. “A number of South Dakota communities have benefited from the Brownfields program, which provides federal funding for technical assistance grants to small communities and rural areas,” Rounds said. “Reauthorization of the program will allow state and local governments to clean up polluted areas so they are once again safe for use. I’m pleased the BUILD Act passed the Senate and look forward to seeing it enacted in the near future.” On June 2, 2015, Rounds joined EPW Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and a group of bipartisan senators in introducing S. 1479, the BUILD Act. The legislation would make several enhancements to the program, including (1) prioritizing technical assistance grants for Brownfields projects in small communities, Indian tribes, rural areas and disadvantaged areas, (2) establishing a program to provide grants to locate clean energy projects at Brownfields sites, and (3) expanding funding eligibility for governmental entities that did not cause or contribute to the contamination. On Feb. 2, the BUILD Act was adopted as an amendment to the Energy Policy Modernization Act (S.2012), which passed the Senate on April 20 and is currently being conferenced with the House. On May 18, the BUILD Act was reported out of the EPW Committee by voice vote. ###
06.27.2016	06.27.16 Rounds Expresses Concern Over Staff Downsizing at Hot Springs VA WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today sent a letter to Janet Murphy, Director of the Veterans Affairs (VA) Midwest Health Care Network, asking why the VA Black Hills Health Care System continues to downsize staff at the Hot Springs Medical Clinic, despite current law which forbids such actions. No formal decision has been made on the realignment of services within the Black Hills Health Care System, nor has the final Environmental Impact Statement been released. “In 2012 the Hot Springs Campus was staffed with three medical doctors, two physician assistants and one nurse practitioner working in primary care. Today only one physician assistant remains to meet the needs of veterans in primary care,” wrote Rounds. “These staff reductions have dramatically reduced care and services to veterans, placed undue burden and stress on remaining staff and potentially add risk for veterans.” The full text of the letter is available below: June 27, 2016 Ms. Janet Murphy Network Director VA Midwest Health Care Network (VISN 23) 2805 Dodd Road, Suite 250 Eagan, MN 55121 Dear Director Murphy, I write to express my concern over the continual downsizing and staff reductions at the Hot Springs Campus of the VA Black Hills Health Care System. Specifically, since 2012, I note 33 key clinical positions have either been transferred or eliminated at the Hot Springs campus. These staff reductions have dramatically reduced care and services to veterans, placed undue burden and stress on remaining staff and potentially add risk for veterans. In 2012 the Hot Springs Campus was staffed with three medical doctors, two physician assistants and one nurse practitioner working in primary care. Today only one physician assistant remains to meet the needs of veterans in primary care. Of eight pharmacists on staff in 2012, only two positions remain. Of six respiratory therapists on staff in 2012, only three positions remain. The respiratory therapist shortage recently resulted in patients being informed on June 10 via a sign on the door that the Respiratory Therapy Clinic was “closed due to lack of staff.” I also note the further staff reductions of psychiatrists, surgical physicians, nurse practitioners, X-ray technicians, lab technicians, registered nurses and licensed practical nurses. Given the final Hot Springs Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) has not been released and that no formal decision has been made by the VA regarding the realignment of services in the Black Hills Health Care System, these deliberate staff reductions are deeply concerning. Additionally, current law has suspended any realignment in Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) 23 for the last three years. This provision remains in effect until the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) transmits to Congress a comprehensive national realignment strategy of health care services. To date, I am unaware of Congress receiving such a report. Under these circumstances, I respectfully ask the following questions: Why has the Hot Springs Campus undergone such dramatic downsizing over the last four years? How does the VA interpret the law to allow for the elimination of these services at the Hot Springs Campus? I thank you for your hard work and commitment to serving our veterans. I share your goal of improving access and quality of care for all of our nation’s heroes and look forward to hearing back from you on this important matter. I would very much appreciate a response not later than July 27th, 2016. Sincerely, ### Related Files Sen Rounds letter to VISN23 Dir.pdf
06.23.2016	06.23.16 Rounds Encourages Colleagues to Pass Veterans First Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, spoke on the Senate floor to encourage his colleagues to pass the Veterans First Act, of which he is an original cosponsor. The Veterans First Act is a comprehensive, bipartisan bill to improve accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and enhance care and benefits for veterans. It includes major provisions of two pieces of legislation Rounds introduced, the Veterans Choice Equal Cost for Care Act and the Veterans Health Administration Spending and Transparency Oversight Act. Link to video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYTQvPueoiM Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: South Dakota is home to more than 72,000 veterans who have selflessly and bravely served our country. I am honored to work on behalf of them on both the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services Committees. But tragically, many of our nation’s heroes aren’t receiving the quality of health care they have been promised due to decades of mismanagement and ongoing problems at the VA. This is unacceptable. In fact, of all the calls we receive in my state offices asking for help with a federal agency, well over half of those calls are from veterans seeking help with the VA. These veterans in South Dakota – and across the entire country – continue to experience problems with health care delivery at the VA, including backlogs, long wait times and frequent billing errors. As we seek to address these issues within the entire VA system, accountability is as important as ever. The Veterans First Act takes meaningful steps to hold the VA accountable and – in turn – improve care for our nation’s veterans, which is the most important priority of all. This legislation truly puts the needs of our veterans first by addressing the lack of accountability at the VA. Unfortunately, the administration last week announced it would not defend a provision of the Veterans Choice Act, which was passed with strong majorities in both chambers of Congress in 2014 and was signed by the president. In response, the VA announced last week it would no longer use its expedited removal authority to hold VA senior executives accountable, given this Justice Department decision. Regardless of the legal arguments surrounding this issue, the fact is that as a result of the VA’s decision, we are now back to pre-Phoenix scandal accountability at the VA. We owe it to our veterans to make certain they receive the best care possible, and not have the agency responsible for that care refuse to remove non-performing or even criminally acting officials from important positions as Congress granted the VA the right to do in the Veterans Choice Act. This is also important given that until recently, the VA didn’t have a permanent Inspector General, or IG, in more than 2 years. Inspectors General are impartial and independent units within most federal agencies whose duty is to provide this accountability and oversight to combat waste, fraud and abuse within the government. During that same timeframe, the VA has been plagued with some of the worst scandals and mismanagement in the agency’s history, and our veterans have paid the price. Some, have even died. While I am glad IG Missal is now in office and can begin to address some of the VA’s fraud and waste allegations, it is too little, too late. That is why the bipartisan Veterans First Act is so important. Our bill will take strong, definitive, immediate steps to hold VA employees accountable for their actions. Some examples include: Shortening the grievance process, making it easier to dismiss VA officials that breach the trust of the veterans they are supposed to serve; It will remove the “Merit Systems Protection Board” from the appeal process for senior executives; and It expedites, when necessary, the removal of any employees at the VA – executives and rank-and-file employees alike. Don’t take my word for it, listen to the words of Secretary McDonald himself. On Monday, he stated that “The answer to the whole thing in my opinion is the Veterans First Act. The provisions that Senator Isakson and Senator Blumenthal have put in the Veterans first Act WE ALL SUPPORT. VA supports them. The Republican Party in the Senate supports them. The Democratic Party in the Senate supports them. We really think that is the ultimate answer. I’m hoping the Veterans First Act will get passed soon.” The bill also includes a number of provisions I have offered to improve accountability and care at the VA, such as: The Veterans Choice Equal Cost for Care Act – which amends the Choice Act by eliminating the “secondary payer clause” to make certain veterans do not pay more for private care under the Choice Act than they would if they were seen at a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facility. Veterans Health Administration Spending and Transparency Oversight Act – this legislation requires the Veterans Health Administration, or VHA, to produce an annual report to Congress detailing the cost of the health care it provides. Having accurate cost accounting by the VHA will help Congress identify legislative options aimed at better health care for our nation’s veterans. I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of the Veterans First Act, and I thank the members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, especially Chairman Isakson and Ranking Member Blumenthal and all the other members here today, for working together to produce meaningful, bipartisan reforms at the VA. Our nation’s veterans, who have selflessly defended and protected our freedoms, deserve that same commitment from the country they so proudly fought and defended. ###
06.17.2016	06.17.16 Indian Affairs Committee Field Hearing Shines Light on IHS Crisis, Response Hearing Part of Coordinated Effort Between Tribes, Delegation, and Administration RAPID CITY, S.D. — Today the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, at the request of U.S. Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), convened an oversight and legislative hearing in Rapid City to receive testimony from stakeholders impacted by the years-long crisis at Indian Health Service (IHS) facilities across the Great Plains area and examine comprehensive IHS reform legislation recently introduced by Thune and Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), chairman of the Indian Affairs Committee. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) joined Thune and Barrasso at today’s hearing, which highlighted the importance and need for a coordinated effort to properly respond to this crisis. “The laundry list of issues plaguing the IHS has been well-litigated over the last six years,” said Thune. “No one knows those problems better than the tribal members who’ve been directly affected by them. While that conversation is far from over, today’s hearing was an important turning point toward examining the concrete areas in which we can make improvements and reforms to an agency tasked with the critical role of providing quality health care to tribal citizens in South Dakota and around the country. Not only do I want to thank Chairman Barrasso for convening today’s hearing, but also the witnesses who provided constructive feedback about my bill and what can be done to finally fix this crisis.” “Today’s hearing helped us better understand the problems at IHS,” said Rounds. “We had a productive discussion with tribal leaders and IHS representatives that reiterates the need to fix the health care crisis in Indian country. I thank Chairman Barrasso for holding this important hearing, and I thank Sen. Thune, Rep. Noem and all the witnesses for their participation today. It is clear that IHS is dealing with serious administrative, financial and quality-of-care issues that still need to be addressed. In order to fulfill its trust responsibility to tribal members, IHS must undergo major reform, under close collaboration with the tribes. Consultation with the tribes is critical. Further, today’s hearing reaffirmed the importance of an external audit of IHS so we can work to fix their systemic problems. I appreciate Acting Deputy Secretary Wakefield’s support for an independent audit and look forward to working with her to get the answers necessary to turn the agency around.” “IHS should get out of the hospital business,” said Noem. “The medical and administrative malpractice in the Great Plains is killing our tribal communities. Expansive reforms are necessary to end the corruption, mismanagement and life-threatening care. I am encouraged that we already have broad agreement between the House and Senate on some of the legislative changes, but cooperation from federal agencies will be paramount to our success. I thank Chairman Barrasso, Senators Thune and Rounds, the witnesses, and the many tribal members who attended today’s hearing. In the end, we are all partners in fixing this problem.” Today’s witnesses included Dr. Mary Wakefield, acting deputy secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS); the Honorable William Bear Shield, chairman of the Rosebud Sioux Tribal Health Board; Ms. Wehnona Stabler, tribal health director of the Omaha Tribe of Nebraska; Ms. Ardell Blueshield, tribal health director for Spirit Lake Tribal Health; and Ms. Stacy Bohlen, executive director of the National Indian Health Board. The Barrasso-Thune bill, the IHS Accountability Act of 2016, would improve transparency and accountability at the IHS by: Expanding removal and discipline authorities for problem employees at the agency; Providing the HHS secretary with direct hiring and other authorities to avoid long delays in the traditional hiring process; Requiring tribal consultation prior to hiring area directors, hospital CEOs, and other key leadership positions; Commissioning Government Accountability Office reports on staffing and professional housing needs; Improving protections for employees who report violations of patient safety requirements; Mandating that the HHS secretary provide timely IHS spending reports to Congress; and Ensuring the HHS inspector general investigates patient deaths in which the IHS is alleged to be involved by act or omission. The IHS Accountability Act also addresses staff recruitment and retention shortfalls at IHS by: Addressing gaps in IHS personnel by giving the HHS secretary flexibility to create competitive pay scales and provide temporary housing assistance for medical professionals; Improving patient-provider relationships and continuity of care by providing incentives to employees; and Giving the HHS secretary the ability to reward employees for good performance and finding innovative ways to improve patient care, promote patient safety, and eliminate fraud, waste, and abuse. Noem has also introduced comprehensive legislation in the House that offers critical structural changes to how IHS operates, addressing both medical and administrative challenges with bipartisan support. ###
06.17.2016	06.17.16 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at Senate Indian Affairs Committee Field Hearing RAPID CITY—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered the following opening statement at a hearing entitled, Improving Accountability and Quality of Care at the Indian Health Service through S. 2953. Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: Thank you, Chairman Barrasso, for holding today’s field hearing here in South Dakota, where our tribal members are all too familiar with the failures of the Indian Health Service. I would also like to thank Senator Thune and Congresswoman Kristi Noem for their tireless work to address the problems plaguing the IHS. In South Dakota, we know all-too-well of these ongoing problems. Nearly every week – if not every day – our newspaper headlines tell the tale of new problems. Let me read some of the headlines we’ve seen just in the last month: IHS Hospital in Immediate Jeopardy Feds Deal Blow to Rosebud IHS Hospital Man won’t return to “death hospital” Tribal leaders say they were left out of IHS call for help Health Care Crisis Hits South Dakota reservations I could spend my entire time reading headlines, but it’s important to understand the impact it’s having on real people, our tribal members: The Great Plains Area IHS – which covers South Dakota, North Dakota, Nebraska and Iowa – has the second-highest mortality rate among all IHS regions. We also have the highest diabetes death rate, almost double the average among IHS facilities. Our life expectancy rate is the lowest of all IHS regions, at 68.1 years. Compare this to the U.S. average of 77.7 years. It is clear the IHS is failing our tribal members, who are suffering and even dying due to this inadequate and disgraceful care. As we all know, Rosebud has had its emergency department on diversion status for 195 days as of today, meaning tribal members are having to drive over 50 miles to receive emergency care. The same is true for their OB and surgical departments as well. These circumstances are going to continue to occur until we demand a thorough review and reform of IHS. We need an audit. I had the opportunity to meet with the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association in April. We discussed an in-depth profile analysis on IHS that my office researched in an attempt to seek answers and gain a better understanding. We talked about the administrative imbalance; that there are 15,000 employees at IHS, only 750 are doctors yet nearly 4,000 are administrative “medical billers”. We also found that IHS employees and administrators can’t explain or don’t understand their own budget. After reviewing the data with me, the Great Plains Tribal Chairmen voted on a resolution supporting an audit of IHS. The IHS needs major reform. But, more taxpayer money won’t solve the dysfunction, because what IHS lacks is an efficient system and accountability. Consider this: if the president proposed and Congress supported doubling IHS’s budget, based on IHS’s current template they would have 20,000 administration employees, 7,400 bureaucrats billing Medicaid and still only 1,500 doctors. The imbalance in priorities would still exist – just at a greater level. From my standpoint, investing more taxpayer money in a dysfunctional system will only compound the problem. This is a serious issue that requires tangible solutions – not band aids. There are significant administrative management, financial management and quality-of-care issues that must be addressed. Today’s hearing will help us better understand where the problems lie and steps forward to fix these problems. We need an audit. Ultimately today’s hearing is to fix the poor quality of health care for our people. IHS will never be able to deliver the timely, quality care the federal government has a trust responsibility to deliver, without broad reforms. I thank Chairman Barrasso, Senator Thune and Representative Noem for being here today, and also their ongoing work to address these issues. ###
06.16.2016	06.16.16 South Dakota Senators Introduce Amendment to Help Tribes Construct New Detention Facilities WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today introduced an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies (CJS) appropriations bill currently being debated on the Senate floor that would set aside $25 million from the Office of Justice Programs (OJP) existing budget to replace outdated detention facilities on tribal land. “Many detention facilities on tribal land in South Dakota are dilapidated and unfit to hold detainees,” said Rounds. “Sisseton-Wahpeton’s detention center, for example, was condemned by the Department of Interior 15 years ago and still has not been replaced. Our amendment would allow tribes to replace facilities that are beyond rehabilitation without adding to the national debt.” “This common-sense amendment solves a critical problem that South Dakota tribes have been dealing with for years now and does so in a fiscally responsible way,” said Thune. “This approach should be one that garners bipartisan support, and my hope is the full Senate will consider our proposal as the debate on the CJS bill continues.” “On behalf of my tribe, we greatly appreciate Senator Rounds and Senator Thune for introducing this critical amendment to the CJS appropriations bill,” said Dave Flute, Sisseton-Wahpeton Tribal Chairman. “This bill is desperately needed and will provide the tools and resources to help us obtain funding to fix our facility needs and help us combat the serious and urgent law enforcement problems plaguing our people on the Lake Traverse Reservation.” The amendment would require OJP to give priority to Indian tribes with 10,000 or more tribal members, which demonstrate readiness and preparedness to begin construction. ###
06.15.2016	06.15.16 Rounds and Colleagues Request VA Update on Progress to Improve Access to Health Care WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, joined 10 of his Senate colleagues in writing a letter raising concerns about veterans’ timely access to quality health care at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The letter requests the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) promptly issue a comprehensive scheduling directive to address immediate wait times and healthcare access issues raised in a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report more than one year ago. In that report, the VHA was listed as a “High-Risk” federal agency. “More than a year has passed since the GAO identified VHA as vulnerable to fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement, and in need of transformation, based on five serious, long-standing and well documented deficiencies,” the senators wrote. “As a result of these deficiencies, VHA was included on GAO’s list of “High-Risk” federal agencies. This letter sets out the three critical steps you must take to restore our confidence that VHA can resolve the chronic risks identified for veterans’ access to quality VA health care.” The letter was led by Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Ranking Member Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and signed by U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.). The full text of the letter is available below: June 15, 2016 The Honorable David Shulkin Under Secretary for Health, Veterans Health Administration 810 Vermont Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Under Secretary Shulkin: More than a year has passed since the Government Accountability Office (GAO) identified the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) as vulnerable to fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement, and in need of transformation, based on five serious, long-standing, and well documented deficiencies. As a result of these deficiencies, VHA was included on GAO’s list of “High-Risk” federal agencies. This letter sets out the three critical steps you must take to restore our confidence that VHA can resolve the chronic risks identified for veterans' access to quality Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) health care. As you are aware, in February of 2015, after over fifteen years of reporting and testifying on VA’s failure to provide timely access to care for veterans, GAO added VA to the High-Risk List based on the serious and longstanding deficiencies it identified within the VA system. The report highlights five key areas of concern as rationale for adding VA to the list: (1) ambiguous policies and inconsistent processes, (2) inadequate oversight and accountability, (3) information technology challenges, (4) inadequate training for VA staff, and (5) unclear resource needs and allocation priorities. We understand that VA now has an organizational structure in place led by Dr. Carolyn Clancy, with executives assigned to lead efforts in each of the five areas, and expects to finally issue its action plan by August 1, 2016. Producing this plan in the August timeframe—18 months after first being added to the list—is inadequate progress given the importance of the five areas cited and their impact on health care services. We request that this plan map out an aggressive and comprehensive strategy to resolve the five concerns by the end of Fiscal Year 2018. Please inform us of any elements that require congressional action to achieve this goal. Developing and communicating good policies, and ensuring that they are standardized and utilized across the health system, is fundamental to providing excellent care for our nation’s veterans. This identified area of risk is most immediately within your control and quickly rectifiable. We understand VHA continues to rely on 176 expired policy directives. Other key policies have expired or are being communicated by less formal means—such as by memoranda rather than updated directives or handbooks—which can cause confusion among staff across VA medical centers. We, therefore, request that you improve the state of VHA policy directives, including by consolidating all of VHA’s policy initiatives under the Office of Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Policy and Services to ensure proper oversight, before the end of this administration. While this failure to update policies may sound far removed from daily patient care, it is in fact emblematic of VA's inability to ensure the timeliness, cost-effectiveness, quality, and safety of health care veterans have earned. For example, two years after the glaring failure to deliver timely care was set forth in testimony before our committee, VHA has yet to publically issue a directive establishing a comprehensive appointment scheduling policy. Instead, VHA relies on expired directives and individual memos that VHA medical center staff identify as ineffective and as contributing to continued scheduling errors. As you work to update your policy directives, the scheduling of patient care is the most important policy reform to achieve your overall transformation efforts. Despite the efforts you and your team have undertaken to address the wait time and access issues affecting VHA—such as access stand downs and Saturday work days to close the access gap—to this day, VHA’s scheduling directive still indicates it is expired. Because access to care starts with scheduling appointments, we ask that you direct the Office of Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Policy and Services under Dr. Jennifer Lee’s leadership to issue a comprehensive scheduling directive within thirty days of receiving this letter. We believe in the vital and invaluable role of VHA in serving those who have served our nation. Nothing less than the health and continued viability of VHA is at stake in ensuring you provide a path to ending the High-Risk designation. We look forward to working with you to achieve this goal. ###
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on EPA Progress Implementing IG, GAO Recommendations Hearing Entitled “Oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Progress in Implementing Inspector General and Government Accountability Office Recommendations” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the opening statement at his hearing entitled, “Oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Progress in Implementing Inspector General and Government Accountability Office Recommendations.” This hearing is a continuation of the subcommittee’s oversight of the EPA, with a specific focus on the EPA’s progress in implementing recommendations from the Office of the Inspector General (IG) and Government Accountability Office (GAO). Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing entitled “Oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Progress in Implementing Inspector General and Government Accountability Office Recommendations.” Approximately one year ago, we held our first subcommittee hearing with Inspector General Arthur Elkins of the Environmental Protection Agency who testified about his office’s work in conducting audits and investigations related to EPA agency actions and programs. Since then, we have held hearings conducting oversight on various aspects of the EPA rulemaking process to make certain the regulations the EPA implements are promulgated in an open, transparent process with adequate public participation. Unfortunately, we have found this is often not the case. The GAO is an independent, nonpartisan agency that prepares reports that are either mandated by public laws or committee reports, or at the request of Congress. They provide comprehensive audits examining the economy and the efficiency of government operations. The Office of the Inspector General reports to both the EPA and Congress regarding any problems and deficiencies relating to the administration of the Agency’s programs and operations, and also serves as the investigative arm of the EPA, examining possible criminal or civil violations by the agency. These offices conduct agency oversight to determine whether federal funds are being spent efficiently and effectively, the agency is being managed properly and make certain that government programs and policies are meeting their objectives in an open, transparent matter and are complying with the applicable statutes when promulgating regulations. In addition to conducting their own investigations, the GAO and OIG make recommendations to the EPA that when successfully implemented in a timely fashion can be effective at correcting mismanagement, and holding the EPA accountable in properly fulfilling its mission and responsibly managing taxpayer dollars. The GAO and the IG prepare regular reports detailing EPA’s progress in implementing these recommendations. While both offices track the EPA’s implementation of these corrective actions for several years after the recommendation is made, testimony today reveals that the EPA is slow to implement recommendations and there may be a need for these offices to do more to follow-up on open recommendations. When the EPA does not implement these recommendations, or delays their implementation while continuing to conduct business as usual, the mismanagement at the agency continues and taxpayer dollars are improperly managed. Most alarmingly, the EPA continues to promulgate regulations that impose huge costs on the U.S. economy and American families while not using proper safeguards. In the past year alone, the EPA has moved forward with finalizing the Waters of the U.S. rule, the Clean Power Plan, and tightening ozone NAAQs. These regulations will impose unprecedented costs on American families and the U.S. economy. Further, two of these regulations are on hold by the courts. When the EPA finalizes regulations through an improper process without implementing recommendations that would make the process better, the result is bad regulations, and that is what we have seen from this EPA. Additionally, in the past year the EPA has made headlines with the Gold King Mine spill and the Flint water crisis. Now more than ever we need the EPA to get back to its core functions rather than pursuing burdensome regulations based on shaky legal ground. The GAO and the OIG play an important role in this. Our witnesses today will provide us with an update on the EPA’s progress in implementing recommendations and help us conduct oversight over the EPA’s process for implementing corrective actions. I am happy to have with us today Alan Larsen, the counsel to the Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency, and Alfredo Gomez, the Director of the Natural Resources and Environment Team of the Government Accountability Office. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
06.13.2016	06.13.16 Rounds Welcomes Summer Interns to D.C. Office WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) has welcomed three summer interns to his Washington, D.C., office. Noah Cozad is from Sioux Falls, S.D., and recently graduated from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities with a degree in Political Science. Andrew Leiferman is from Pierre, S.D., and attends the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, where he is pursuing a degree in Finance and Economics. Thomas McNamara is from Washington, D.C., and attends the University of Texas at Austin, where he is pursuing a degree in Business and Accounting. Intern duties include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Interns work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a U.S. Senate office. The summer internship program in Sen. Rounds’ office lasts through August. College students interested in fall 2016 or spring 2017 semester internships in the Washington, D.C., office or in one of Sen. Rounds’ state offices can visit www.rounds.senate.gov, call Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450, or email a resume and cover letter to erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. College credit is available. ###
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Rounds Seeks to Protect Rural Military Retirees From Higher Prescription Drug Costs WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered remarks on the Senate floor regarding an amendment he introduced to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) currently being debated on the Senate floor. Rounds’ amendment would change a provision in the current NDAA bill that requires military retirees and their families who get their prescription drugs from a retail pharmacy or through mail order to pay even more than now, while those who obtain them from a Military Treatment Facility continue to get them for free. Under Rounds’ amendment, military retirees and their families who live more than 40 miles from a Military Treatment Facility would be exempt from the proposed higher copays. “This provision was inserted as a cost-saving measure, and I understand we have to make tough budget decisions,” said Rounds on the senate floor. “But this arbitrary cost-cutting measure is estimated to cost our military retiree families in rural areas $2 billion dollars over the next 10 years. I don’t think it’s fair for us to make those who live in rural areas – like many of us in South Dakota – pay a higher copay because of where they live.” Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, as the senate considers the National Defense Authorization Act, the NDAA, I rise today to discuss an amendment in support of my constituents who are military retirees as well as military retirees in many other states. My amendment would change a provision being proposed in this bill that requires military retirees and their families, who don’t have easy access to a Military Treatment Facility, such as on a base, from unfairly paying higher copays for their prescription medications. TRICARE provides health care services for our service members, our military retirees and their families. Using TRICARE, military retirees can get free prescription drugs at a Military Treatment Facility. In other words, our military retirees who live close to a base have no copays for their prescription drugs. However, if they draw these prescriptions from a retail pharmacy or through the TRICARE-approved mail order system, they are required to make a copayment. My amendment deals with a provision in today’s bill that directs the Department of Defense, or DOD, to increase these copayments that military retirees obtain from a retail pharmacy or through mail order, rather than from a Military Treatment Facility. The provision will require those military retirees who live far away from a base - without easy access to a Military Treatment Facility to get their prescriptions - to pay more for their use of retail pharmacies and mail order. Why would anybody seek to make it more expensive for our military retirees to receive a benefit they have been promised just because they live far away from a Military Treatment Facility? This provision was inserted as a cost-saving measure, and I understand we have to make tough budget decisions. But this arbitrary cost-cutting measure is estimated to cost our military retiree families in rural areas $2 billion over the next 10 years. I don’t think it’s fair for us to make those who live in rural areas – like many of us in South Dakota - pay a higher copay because of where they live. We have made promises to these men and women, who made incredible sacrifices to protect our country, that they would be able to have adequate health care and coverage including access to prescription drugs and medicines. It is not fair to make them bear a $2 billion cost for prescription drugs simply because of where they live. My amendment would stipulate that if a military retiree lives more than 40 miles from a Military Treatment Facility, he or she will not be saddled with this additional copay. Further, my amendment would require an assessment by the DOD of the added cost that would be borne by these military retirees and their families as a result of increased TRICARE prescription drug copays. This will enable Congress to make reasonable future decisions with regard to increased TRICARE prescription drug copayments that may have a disproportionate impact on those living distant from Military Treatment Facilities. Mr. President, I appreciate this opportunity to discuss my amendment which would rectify a serious effect on military retirees and their families. I yield the floor. # # #
06.07.2016	06.07.16 Rounds’ Hearing Reaffirms Importance of State and Local Input Before EPA Implements Regulations WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today held a hearing entitled, “Oversight of EPA Unfunded Mandates on State, Local, and Tribal Governments.” The purpose of the hearing was to examine the impact that unfunded mandates issued by the EPA have on local units of government. Rounds’ full opening statement from the hearing can be found here. During the hearing, Rounds questioned Berks County, Pennsylvania, Commission Chair Christian Leinbach on his experience dealing with EPA regulations at a county level. “States and counties are not only responsible for administering state and federal regulations, but they also must provide other critical services to the citizens, such as waste management, law enforcement, emergency services and education. How has the recent barrage of EPA regulations impacted counties’ abilities to provide these vital services to American families?” asked Rounds. Leinbach responded, “We have had to deal with the issue of Waters of the U.S. and the potential impact on costs for counties. We believe it is imperative that counties be brought into the process in the very beginning…Through the lead attainment standard several years ago, our largest employer, East Penn Manufacturing, over seven thousand employees were already meeting the new lead attainment standard for a year and a half—they had a year and a half of data. [East Penn Manufacturing] came to the county to ask for help because they were notified that EPA was requiring three years of data. In spite of our pleas to the EPA to not put that part of our county in nonattainment, they were placed in nonattainment. That meant that our largest employer during that period of time was not able to expand, and we were not able to attract manufacturing businesses to that region of the county. That has a direct impact economically. County governments are concerned about the same issues the federal government is concerned about…We believe in clean water. We believe in clean air. Public safety is our number one job. 911 services, police, fire and rescue are costs we have to absorb. When we’re challenged with the cost of regulations, those other areas often suffer.” Full video of the exchange can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_gNkbt8_zH0
06.07.2016	06.07.16 Rounds Delivers Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing Hearing entitled, “Oversight of EPA Unfunded Mandates on State, Local, and Tribal Governments” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the opening statement at his hearing entitled, “Oversight of EPA Unfunded Mandates on State, Local, and Tribal Governments.” This hearing is a continuation of the subcommittee’s oversight on various aspects of the EPA’s rulemaking process. Throughout this Congress the subcommittee has held multiple hearings on EPA’s regulatory process, some of which examined the economic analysis EPA relies on when promulgating their regulations, the science behind these regulations, and most recently, in April this subcommittee held a hearing on EPA consideration for small businesses in the rulemaking process. Rounds’ opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing on “Oversight of EPA Unfunded Mandates on State, Local, and Tribal Governments.” Today we will examine EPA’s compliance with the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and the impact of unfunded mandates imposed by the EPA on state, local and tribal governments. I am pleased our witnesses include state, local and tribal representatives with extensive experience in balancing the demands required of states, localities and tribes in complying with EPA regulations while managing limited resources and budgets. The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act, or UMRA, was enacted in 1995 and sought to avoid imposing unfunded federal mandates on state, local and tribal governments and to make certain federal agencies took costs into account when imposing new regulations. When a federal agency seeks to impose regulations on a state, local or tribal government that will result in $100 million dollars or more a year in expenditures, UMRA requires federal agencies to evaluate a reasonable number of regulatory alternatives and choose the most cost-effective alternative that will meet the regulatory goals of the agency without imposing unreasonable compliance costs on smaller governments. However, EPA’s overly burdensome and aggressive regulatory agenda has resulted in billions of dollars in regulatory costs on state, local and tribal governments, and often leads to citizens footing the bill. Under the current Administration, the regulatory burden imposed by the EPA on the American people has steadily increased. According to the American Action Forum, from 2009 to 2016, the EPA has finalized 163 overall regulations at a regulatory cost of $312.2 billion dollars. The number of unfunded mandates being imposed by the EPA has also increased. From 2005 to 2008, EPA finalized seven regulations that triggered UMRA. However, from 2009 to 2014, the EPA issued 19 rules that contained unfunded mandates – a total of more than 3 annually. Further, in the just the past two years the EPA has moved forward with finalizing multiple regulations that will impose unprecedented costs on state, local and tribal governments. Despite the administration’s insistence that most of these rules are not unfunded mandates, in reality, rules such as the Waters of the U.S. rule, Ozone NAAQS rule, and the Clean Power Plan will undeniably result in hundreds of millions of dollars of compliance costs imposed on small governments faced with limited resources. For these rules, state, local and tribal governments were not properly consulted throughout the rulemaking process, as required by UMRA. The EPA finalized these regulations without considering the impact these regulations will have, and the EPA did not consider alternatives that would be more cost-effective and easier to comply with before imposing these large, one-size-fits-all regulations that will have little environmental benefit. As a result, states, local and tribal governments will be forced to use limited resources to comply with burdensome federal regulations when they could be put to better use providing basic services and benefits to their citizens. Further, some small governments have no other choice but to raise taxes on American families in an attempt to manage the cost of complying with these federal regulations. UMRA was created to make certain federal agencies took the time to consider how federal regulations would impact those required to comply with them. Unfortunately, the EPA has issued regulations in a way counter to the core intent of UMRA and continues to impose burdensome, costly regulations without undertaking the proper consultation process or analyzing more cost-effective alternatives. Federal agencies cannot continue to impose billions of dollars in regulatory costs on state, local and tribal governments. We must recognize the unique characteristics of these governments that are tasked with managing multiple federal, state and local responsibilities with limited resources while also trying to provide for American families. State, local and tribal governments should be equal partners with the EPA in the regulatory process rather than victims of an adversarial regulatory process. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Rounds Cosponsors Resolution to Protect South Dakota Families from Costly New Energy Tax WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined a number of his Senate colleagues in introducing a resolution to block efforts to impose a national tax on carbon energy, which has historically supplied at least 80 percent of America’s energy needs. “In South Dakota, we depend on affordable energy to run our farms and businesses, heat our homes in the dead of winter and transport goods and people throughout the state,” said Rounds. “The effect of a carbon tax – which will lead to higher taxes and increased energy costs– would be felt in every aspect of our lives. The Obama administration’s endless stream of new taxes and regulations is already limiting economic growth and stifling innovation. Our resolution would put a stop to efforts to create a national energy tax and further bog down our economy.” This resolution is cosponsored by 24 senators, and supported by several groups including American Energy Alliance, Americans for Prosperity, Citizens Against Government Waste, the National Black Chamber of Commerce, and Americans for Tax Reform. ###
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Rounds Votes to Stop Harmful Fiduciary Rule That Would Limit Availability of Retirement Advice WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today voted to block the fiduciary rule issued by the Department of Labor (DOL) last month. The resolution of disapproval, which requires a simple majority vote, passed 56-41. Having passed the House of Representatives last month, it now heads to President Obama’s desk. “The administration’s fiduciary rule will have harmful consequences for South Dakota families saving for retirement, which is why I support the resolution of disapproval passed by the Senate today,” said Rounds. “By requiring financial advisors to become fiduciaries, this rule will limit the availability of retirement investment advice for millions of people, especially low-and-moderate-income Americans. The many regulations issued by the Obama administration consistently place undue financial burdens on already-overtaxed Americans, and the fiduciary rule is no different.” In May 2015, Rounds, along with 35 senators, sent a letter to DOL Secretary Thomas Perez requesting the DOL revise its proposed fiduciary rule and extend the comment period. In October 2015, DOL agreed to rework its proposed rule. Unfortunately, the proposed rule will leave many without critical access to quality retirement advice. Rounds is a cosponsor of S. 2502, the Affordable Retirement Advice Protection Act, and S. 2505, the Strengthening Access to Valuable Education and Retirement Support Act, both of which aim to establish more workable fiduciary standards and prevent the DOL’s proposed fiduciary rule from being implemented. ###
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Rounds Questions Legality of Army Corps’ Implementation of WOTUS Rounds: “We have heard multiple examples of the Army Corps implementing the WOTUS rule nearly to the point where the property that is subject to the permitting loses its value.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today at an EPW Subcommittee hearing questioned the legality of reports that the Army Corps is implementing the Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS), despite a nationwide stay on the rule in October 2015. Specifically, Rounds questioned Damien Schiff, the Principal Attorney of the Pacific Legal Foundation, about the implementation methods of the Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS). “When agricultural land is subject to burdensome and unreasonable permitting requirements based on incomplete information or the illegal implementation of a regulation, landowners lose the ability to cultivate and properly manage their land, which essentially prohibits farmers and ranchers from using the land that they rightfully own,” said Rounds at the hearing. “Would you consider this illegal implementation of WOTUS a regulatory taking by the Army Corps of Engineers, and if so, what recourse do the property owners have to prevent the Army Corps from devaluing their property to the point that it becomes practically unsaleable?” asked Rounds. Schiff replied, “I do believe that in many of these instances there would be a regulatory taking. The idea is that the Constitution says that the government cannot take your property for public use without just compensation, and the Supreme Court has made clear that includes cases of environmental or other regulation where you can no longer do anything with your property and have no value left.” Full video of the exchange can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEt1riqD470&feature=youtu.be ###
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Rounds Issues Statement Following VA’s Announcement to Voluntarily Implement Bipartisan Provision to Enhance VA Medical Care New policy will make it easier for the Veterans Administration to fully staff medical centers and cut wait times WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today made the following statement in response to news that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is moving to voluntarily implement one of the key proposals from the bipartisan Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act, which he introduced with Sens. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.). The legislation would help make sure that veterans can get the care they need in a timely fashion at VA health care facilities. “I’m pleased the VA recognizes the need to cut down on unnecessary red tape that is preventing our veterans from receiving adequate and timely care,” said Rounds. “By easing unnecessary restrictions placed on APRNs [Advanced Practice Registered Nurses] within the VA system, veterans in South Dakota and across the country will have increased access to health care and have the ability to receive that care closer to home. I thank my colleagues in the Senate who worked with me to fix this misguided policy and look forward to working with the VA to see it implemented.” Specifically, the new VA proposal would allow Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) to provide health care services to the full extent of their practice authority. This will make it easier for the VA to find enough medical professionals to fill the need for health care services for veterans, particularly for primary care services and in rural areas. The VA published the policy change today as a proposed rule. There will be a 60-day comment period on the rulemaking, after which the rule can go into effect. ###
05.19.2016	05.19.16 Rounds Acknowledges South Dakota Students Offered Appointments to U.S. Service Academies WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today acknowledged the South Dakota students who were offered appointments into the nation’s service academies for the fall 2016 semester with his nomination. “It was an honor to nominate these young South Dakota students to become the next generation of military leaders, and I congratulate them on their appointments into the service academies,” said Rounds. “The United States service academies are looking for the best and brightest to join their ranks, and I was fortunate to receive nomination applications from an outstanding group of South Dakota students this year. These students possess the leadership qualities and academic excellence to succeed at our nation’s service academies. I wish them all the best.” Senator Rounds nominated the following applicants, all of whom were offered appointments into the service academies: Mary Kate Beachler of Canton, SD, to U.S. Military Academy Trevor Brenneman of Sioux Falls, SD, to U.S. Military Academy Jesse DeVries of Mitchell, SD, to U.S. Naval Academy Noah Diamond of Rapid City, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Kendra Jacobs of Trent, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Austin Lentsch of Pierre, SD, to U.S. Military Academy Ethan Maertz of Watertown, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Nicholas Nash of Sioux Falls, SD, to U.S. Air Force Academy Jared Nielson of Canistota, SD, to U.S. Naval Academy Max Sommervold of Sioux Falls, SD, to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Each year, Rounds is able to nominate a select group of eligible students from South Dakota to attend our nation’s four service academies: The U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. More information about the nomination process and eligibility requirements can be found here. ###
05.18.2016	05.18.16 Rounds Statement on Obama Administration’s New Overtime Mandate WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Labor’s final rule that would more than double the salary threshold under which employees qualify for overtime pay. “The Obama administration’s new overtime mandate will hurt both our employees and the employers who hire them,” said Rounds. “Under this rule, restaurants, retailers and small businesses across South Dakota will be faced with increased labor costs or be forced to transition their managers from salary to hourly pay and most likely limit the number of hours they work. This rule makes it more difficult for new and mid-level workers to support their families and advance their career. The best way to strengthen the middle class is to grow our economy by lowering the tax burden, removing costly regulatory mandates and increasing workplace flexibility. Unfortunately, this new rule will have the opposite effect.” Under current law, salaried managers and administrators do not qualify for time-and-a-half overtime pay if they make $23,660 or more annually. The new rule, effective December 1, will raise the exemption threshold to $47,476. Earlier this year, Rounds cosponsored the Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act, which would make certain the Department of Labor pursues a balanced and responsible approach to updating federal overtime rules. ###
05.16.2016	05.16.16 Delegation Demands Answers From the Indian Health Service WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) recently joined Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, in sending a letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell requesting that the Indian Health Service (IHS) provide answers regarding the recent system improvement agreements executed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the IHS. These agreements were designed to avert the imminent loss of CMS reimbursement due to non-compliance at multiple IHS facilities in the Great Plains Area. In the letter, the delegation and Barrasso pose several questions that have yet to be answered by IHS concerning the agreements, despite multiple requests from Indian tribes. “During a recent briefing for congressional staff, the acting director of the IHS presented a system improvement agreement, which we understand is intended to improve the quality of care at IHS facilities in the Great Plains Area,” the members wrote. “We want to be helpful in this endeavor, but must also ensure that this approach is viable and responsive to the needs of impacted tribes. Unfortunately, during [a] recent briefing, more questions were raised than answered.” The letter continues to pose seven questions to Secretary Burwell and requests the department’s prompt response. “The speed and efficacy with which your department and its agencies act directly impacts patient care and safety in the IHS system,” the members continued. “We look forward to your prompt response to these questions by June 1, 2016.” In February, Chairman Barrasso, Thune, and Rounds participated in an oversight hearing and listening session on the substandard quality of care provided by the IHS to the Great Plains Area. Barrasso, Thune, Rounds, and Noem have continued to raise concerns about the quality of care at the IHS, particularly in the Great Plains Area, and remain committed to finding ways to improve the IHS. Full text of the letter can be found below: The Honorable Sylvia M. Burwell Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Burwell: We write to ask for additional information regarding the recent system improvement agreements executed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Indian Health Service (IHS). As we understand, these agreements were designed to avert the imminent loss of CMS reimbursement due to non-compliance at multiple IHS facilities in the Great Plains Area. As you are aware, in 2010, Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), then-Chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, produced a report outlining many of the same issues identified this Congress through investigation by the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs. Recent congressional investigations made clear that despite significant examination and documentation of the systemic problems at IHS, the agency was still not providing tribal citizens access to safe, quality health care. During a recent briefing for congressional staff, the Acting Director of the IHS presented a system improvement agreement, which we understand is intended to improve the quality of care at IHS facilities in the Great Plains Area. We want to be helpful in this endeavor, but must also ensure that this approach is viable and responsive to the needs of impacted tribes. Unfortunately, during this recent briefing, more questions were raised than answered. So that we may assist the Department in its work to improve the quality of care in the Great Plains and be responsive to Indian tribes, we hope your staff can respond in writing to the following questions. Please identify and provide the specific legal authority and legal opinion IHS has relied upon to implement the Rosebud system improvement agreement to contract with a hospital management firm and place federal employees under the direction of private hospital management. What is the estimated cost associated with executing the Rosebud agreement? What is the estimated cost associated with executing the similar systems improvement agreement regarding the Pine Ridge facility? This is an essential piece of information for potential private partners to know when considering whether or not to bid. Will tribes be consulted about the decision of whether to extend these agreements? As you know, workforce recruitment and retention has been a significant challenge for IHS in the Great Plains Area and nationally, yet the system improvement agreements appear to provide little information about how the IHS plans to improve staff recruitment and retention. The new system improvement plan requires the IHS to “identify needs, barriers, and potential resources and actions to design and implement an effective long term workforce development strategy...” Can you explain with specificity each workforce-related barrier identified by the IHS? Please explain in detail this administration’s current strategy for IHS staff recruitment and retention. If a strategic plan exists, we would welcome a continuing dialogue on how to best address these issues. Finally, we understand that IHS continues to suffer from significant vacancies, both in the Great Plains Area and nationally. So that we may better understand the nature and scope of this problem, please identify the number and type of vacancies in each IHS Area. Additionally, please identify the comparative cost of filling the same vacancies with full time equivalent employees. The speed and efficacy with which your Department and its agencies act directly impacts patient care and safety in the IHS system. We look forward to your prompt response to these questions by June 1, 2016. Sincerely, John Barrasso Chairman, Senate Committee on Indian Affairs John Thune U.S. Senator Mike Rounds U.S. Senator Kristi Noem Member of Congress
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Rounds Statement on Committee Passage of NDAA Includes his Cyber Act of War Act and other provisions WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued a statement after the committee’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill includes a number of provisions he introduced, including his provision requiring the administration to define a cyber act of war. “Passing the NDAA each year is critical to protecting and advancing our national security,” said Rounds. “It’s a testament to Chairman McCain and Ranking Member Reed’s leadership that members from both sides of the aisle were able to work with each other to pass this important legislation. “I’m also pleased that my Cyber Act of War Act was included in the NDAA. As the nature of warfare continues to evolve, it is critical that our armed forces have the authorization and ability to defend against cyber-attacks on our critical infrastructure such as the electric grid, transportation systems and water supplies. Clearly defining what constitutes an act of war in the cyber realm is the first step in this effort.” Rounds’ Cyber Act of War Act would require the administration to develop a policy to determine when an action carried out in cyberspace constitutes an act of war against the United States. It would also require the Department of Defense to include the definition in its Law of War Manual. Legislation Rounds introduced to improve DOD prescription drug monitoring for PTSD, training of DOD personnel who hire cyber security professionals and DOD’s purchase of commercial services was also included in the NDAA. ###
05.12.2016	05.12.16 Senate Passes First Appropriations Bill of 2016 with Rounds Support WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today supported the Fiscal Year 2017 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 2016, which passed the Senate by a vote of 90-8. This is the earliest the Senate has taken up an appropriations bill on the Senate floor in more than 40 years. The Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act funds critical Department of Energy programs and infrastructure projects managed by the Army Corps of Engineers. “The federal government has a duty to spend Americans’ tax dollars wisely,” said Rounds. “The most responsible way to do this is through a regular, incremental budget process that allows us to debate and amend the appropriations bills individually. I’m pleased the Senate is taking steps to return to regular order and avoid a last-minute, end-of-year omnibus that we have become all too familiar with in modern times. “The energy and water appropriations bill we passed today is both fiscally responsible and assures important investment projects, such as the Long Baseline Neutrino Facility/Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment, are adequately funded. Further, it provides additional direction to help federal agencies do their job more effectively, including my amendment authorizing funds for the Army Corps to implement flood and drought monitoring systems along the Missouri River.” Included in the bill is Rounds’ amendment to authorize up to $2 million within the Army Corps’ existing budget to implement Upper Missouri Basin flood and drought monitoring systems. It also includes $55 million for the Long Baseline Neutrino Facility/Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment, which directly affects the scientists working at the Sanford Underground Research Facility in Lead. Earlier this year, Rounds sent a letter with several of his colleagues encouraging the appropriations committee to include this funding. ###
05.12.2016	05.12.16 Rounds Urges Indian Affairs Committee to Consider Audit of Failing IHS System WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today wrote to Senate Indian Affairs Committee Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) to thank him for his commitment to fixing the systemic problems within Indian Health Service (IHS) and identify areas which an external audit may be helpful in finding solutions to the crisis. “Over the last year, my office has been looking deep into the financial, structural and administrative problems at IHS so we can better understand how to fix the broken agency and provide better care to our tribal members,” said Rounds. “The goal of today’s letter is to provide the Indian Affairs Committee with the research and problems we’ve identified as it considers possible legislative solutions. In the Great Plains Area – particularly in South Dakota – the failings of the IHS have reached a crisis level. Tribal members are literally dying due to inadequate care. I thank Chairman Barrasso for his continued commitment to address the systemic problems we’ve identified within IHS and look forward to working with him on this critical issue. The care and well-being of our Native Americans is our top priority.” Last month, Rounds met with the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association (GPTCA) to discuss these findings. In response, the GPTCA passed a resolution calling for a Government Accountability Office audit of the IHS. A copy of Rounds’ letter to Barrasso can be found below: May 12, 2016 The Honorable John Barrasso, M.D. Chairman, Indian Affairs Committee United States Senate 838 Hart Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Barrasso: I write today to thank you for your hard work and attention to the crisis facing the Indian Health Service in the Great Plains Area. As you know, pursuant to the United States trust obligations to Native American tribes, the federal government established the Indian Health Service (IHS) to provide health care for federally recognized tribal members. However, IHS has historically been criticized by tribes and federal officials for failing to meet their trust responsibility. Most recently, a Great Plains Area hospital diverted emergency services because the hospital has been unable to meet basic requirements set by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and now faces potential termination of its CMS certification. Additionally, a second hospital within the Great Plains Area lost its CMS certification and a third Great Plains Area hospital is in jeopardy of losing the same. As you are also aware, our office has been researching IHS’s history, funding, systems management, and organizational structure in order to better understand whether the data supported the narrative. We believe our analysis confirms what is being experienced throughout IHS. During this review, we have evaluated Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports, Congressional Research Service (CRS) publications, the Health and Human Services fiscal year 2017 publication, have had discussions with IHS officials, and continue to have frequent communication with tribal leadership. In the Great Plains Area, particularly in South Dakota, this issue has reached a crisis stage. People are literally dying waiting for a solution. Based on our review, our office has identified multiple and primary areas of concern about IHS’s administrative management, financial management, and the quality of care delivered at IHS facilities. As the Committee considers ways to resolve these issues within IHS, I respectfully request that as a part of any legislative package, you would consider – at a minimum - language to pursue a third-party, objective audit to recommend appropriate legislative solutions. I believe an audit, similar to what was recently conducted at the Veterans Health Administration, which identified shortfalls and recommended solutions, is a potential model for addressing these critical and systemic issues within the IHS. Such action is supported by the Great Plains Tribal Chairman’s Association, which recently passed a resolution calling upon Congress to demand an external GAO audit of IHS. Administrative Management Leadership/Management: The competency of leadership with respect to culture, accountability, leadership development, physician alignment, employee engagement, succession planning, and performance management. What are the organization’s performance evaluation methods? How is performance tracked and reported? How is performance addressed? How does IHS track chronic vacancies? Turnover? How long can someone be ‘Acting’? Staffing/Productivity: The staffing level at each medical facility and the productivity of each health care provider, compared with health care industry performance metrics. Specific to the Great Plains Area: At full employment, are the number of health care professionals adequate to provide the health care service capabilities? What vacancy rates exist and how is this tracked/reported? Is the number or proportion of administrative staff appropriate compared to other health care systems? Is there a whistleblower program and if so how is it administered? Financial Management Facilities and Asset Management: Management structure and process for construction and maintenance projects, the facilities leasing process, the purchasing, distribution and use of pharmaceuticals, medical and surgical supplies, medical devices and equipment. Is the maintenance budget updated with the addition of new facilities and is it enough to support the growth of facilities? How are long term growth plans determined? How is equipment purchased and deployed? How do facilities address equipment maintenance and upgrades? How are pharmaceuticals authorized and obtained? Budget Allocation and Distribution: There is no funding formula to determine how the budget is distributed between regions; just historical distribution. Is the funding appropriated adequate to serve the minimum capabilities of IHS? What is a realistic analysis of Purchased and Referred Care shortages based upon minimum health care capabilities? What is the allocation of budget spent on administration vs. direct health care? Does this vary by IHS operated vs. Tribally operated? According to IHS’ annual budget book, there are 3700 “Medicaid reimbursable FTE”. How many are certified coders? Are there consistent tracking of “dual eligible” patients (ex. Patients eligible for Medicaid, IHS and/or other federal healthcare programs)? How are “dual eligible” patients managed? Quality of Care Health Care Capabilities: Capabilities by region including hospital care, medical services, and other health care furnished by non-Department facilities under contract. Are there minimum basic minimum standards for the categories of hospital care, medical services, individual specialties, and post-care rehabilitation that IHS beneficiaries should expect to be able to receive? If not, what minimum health care capabilities should be able to be received? How do different regions use contracts to augment care capabilities? How does Purchased and Referred Care (PRC) support these minimum capabilities? Are the current use and process of PRC medical priority levels adequate? What options are there for behavioral health currently, and what can be improved to increase access? Are there options for more cultural approaches? Specific to the Great Plains Area, how does each service unit manage its PRC program? What priority levels are being approved for PRC at each service unit in the Great Plains Area on July 1, 2016? Workflow: Processes for ensuring standard quality of patient scheduling, access to care, clinical staffing, documentation, and care transitions. What workflow processes exist to achieve appropriate and high quality patient scheduling, access to care, clinical scheduling, accurate documentation and coding of inpatient services, and care transitions? Are these processes similar and as rigorous as comparable large, successful health care systems? How is compliance with these processes monitored? Health Information Technology: IT strategies with respect to furnishing and managing health care, including an identification of any weaknesses and opportunities. What is the additional GPRA appropriation in the FY17 budget intended to produce? Why isn’t there a regular regional area office comparison study? If cost is a prohibiting factor, what is the cost to complete this? Are there recognized standardized qualitative health care measurements in the private sector and if so, does IHS track similar measurements? I thank you and the committee for the work you’ve done on this issue. We clearly share a common focus of finally solving the inadequate healthcare being delivered throughout the IHS system. My staff and I look forward to working with you to address the issues we’ve identified and would provide any resources available to us to assist in the Committee’s efforts. Please contact Gregg Rickman, my legislative director, if you or your staff have any questions concerning this request. Sincerely, M. Michael Rounds United States Senator Attachment ### Related Files GPTCA Reso GAO Audit I H S 1 4 15 16 F.pdf
05.10.2016	05.10.16 Rounds Statement on Meeting Between U.S. Army and Tribal Representatives to Discuss Bringing Remains of Native Youth Home WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement after representatives from his office participated in a meeting with Army representatives and tribal representatives in Rosebud, South Dakota. The meeting was to discuss returning the remains of Native American children buried at Carlisle Indian School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, to their rightful home on their tribal land: “During the 19th and early 20th centuries, nearly 830,000 Native American children were forcibly removed from their families and sent to boarding schools—like Carlisle—to assimilate them into what was considered ‘modern society.’ It is past time that the remains of the children who are buried at Carlisle Indian School be returned to their rightful home.” “I thank the Army representatives for working with tribal leaders to begin the formal process of bringing the children home to their relatives. Today’s meeting was - by all accounts - a success. My office will remain engaged throughout the process and stands ready to assist in any way possible.” The Carlisle Indian School, founded in 1879, was one of many boarding schools across the country whose goal was to assimilate Native American youth by removing them from their families, cultures and traditions. Faculty cut students hair short, enforced a strict dress code and confiscated sacred objects that students may have brought with them from home in an effort to introduce them to ‘modern’ American culture. Today’s meeting included representatives from the Rosebud Sioux, Oglala Sioux, Northern Arapaho, Cheyenne River Sioux, Northern Cheyenne, Standing Rock Sioux and Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate, whose members are among those buried at the Carlisle Indian School. The Defending Childhood Initiative Sicangu Youth Council and the Tokala Inajinyo Suicide Prevention Peer Mentors, two groups of middle and high school students from the Rosebud Sioux tribe, also participated in today’s meeting. After a trip to Carlisle last year, they have been very active in working to bring their relatives home. Rounds recently sent a letter to the Army requesting the transfer of tribal remains from the cemetery at Carlisle Barracks to South Dakota. At today’s meeting, the Army representatives confirmed they intend to use their resources to return the remains home. ###
05.09.2016	05.09.16 Rounds Will Introduce Bill Requiring Administration to Define a Cyber Act of War WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), today will introduce the Cyber Act of War Act of 2016. The Cyber Act of War Act of 2016 would require the administration to develop a policy to determine whether a cyber-attack constitutes an act of war. “With the Internet playing a major role in nearly every aspect of our lives, we not only face the threat of losing our personal information online, but we are at risk of having our daily lives interrupted by cyber-attacks that have the ability to cripple our power grid, water supplies and communications networks,” said Rounds. “Cyber-attacks on our critical infrastructure are capable of impacting our entire economy and causing significant destruction. This legislation would require the executive branch to define which of these actions constitute a cyber act of war, which would allow our military to be better able to respond to cyber-attacks and deter bad actors from attempting to attack us in the first place.” During a February 9, 2016, SASC hearing, Rounds questioned Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, Jr., and Lt. Gen. Vincent Stewart, Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, about whether it would be helpful to define an act of war in cyber space. Lt. Gen. Stewart responded, “I think it would be extremely helpful to have clear definitions of what constitutes cyber events versus acts of war…if we get much fuller definition of the range of things that occur in cyber space, and then start thinking about the threshold where an attack is catastrophic enough or destructive enough that we define it as an act of war, I think that would be extremely useful.” Video of the full exchange is available here. The Cyber Act of War Act of 2016 would require that in developing the policy for determining when an action carried out in cyberspace constitutes an act of war against the United States, the administration would be required to consider: the ways in which the effects of a cyber-attack may be equivalent to effects of an attack using conventional weapons, for example with regard to physical destruction or casualties; and intangible effects of significant scope, intensity or duration. It would also require the Department of Defense to include this definition in its Law of War Manual. ### Related Files Bill, NDAA 2017 Related, Cyber Act of War.pdf
05.04.2016	05.04.16 Rounds Statement on the Passing of Colette Abbott PIERRE – U.S. Sen Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement on the passing of Colette Abbott, the wife of University of South Dakota President James Abbott: “Jean and I send our deepest condolences to Jim, his family and the entire USD community,” said Rounds. “Colette dedicated her life to her family and bettering education for South Dakota young people. She touched countless lives throughout the years. Her kindness and generosity will be missed by all.” ###
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Rounds: Bipartisan Veterans First Act Prioritizes our Nation’s Vets Includes a Number of Rounds’ Provisions; Video Available WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today praised the committee’s rollout of the Veterans First Act, which is comprehensive, bipartisan legislation to improve accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and enhance care for veterans. The bill includes major provisions of two pieces of legislation Rounds introduced, the Veterans Choice Equal Cost for Care Act and the Veterans Health Administration Spending and Transparency Oversight Act. “South Dakota is home to more than 72,000 veterans who have selflessly and bravely served our country,” said Rounds. “Unfortunately, many aren’t receiving the quality of care they have been promised due to decades of mismanagement and ongoing problems at the VA. The Veterans First Act takes meaningful steps to hold the VA accountable and – most importantly – improve care for our nation’s veterans. I’m proud to be a part of this effort and I thank the members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, especially Chairman Isakson and Ranking Member Blumenthal, for working together to produce meaningful, bipartisan reforms at the VA. This legislation truly puts the needs of our veterans first.” Rounds Provisions Included in the Veterans First Act: Veterans Choice Equal Cost for Care Act - amends the Choice Act by eliminating the “secondary payer clause” to make certain veterans do not pay more for private care under the Choice Act than they would if they were seen at a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facility. Veterans Health Administration Spending and Transparency Oversight Act - requires the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to produce an annual report to Congress detailing the cost of the health care it provides. Having accurate cost accounting by the VHA will help Congress identify legislative options aimed at better health care for our nation’s veterans, Legislation Rounds Cosponsored Included in the Veterans First Act: Honor America’s Guard and Reserves Act - Honors as a veteran any person who is entitled to retired pay for non-regular (reserve) service or who would be so entitled, but for age. Provides that such person shall not be entitled to any benefit by reason of such recognition. Express Appeals Act – Directs the VA to, 1) carry out a five-year pilot program to provide the option of an alternative appeals process to determine appeals of claims for disability compensation more quickly; and 2) inform claimants about such program. · Toxic Exposure Research Act - Directs the VA to select a VA medical center to serve as the national center for research on the diagnosis and treatment of health conditions of the biological children, grandchildren, or great-grandchildren of individuals exposed to toxic substances while serving as members of the Armed Forces that are related to such exposure. Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act - Directs the Department of the Army to ensure that the cremated remains of persons who served as Women's Air Force Service Pilots (WASPs) are eligible for inurnment in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. ###
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Rounds Delivers Tribute to Terry Redlin on Senate Floor WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today paid tribute to Terry Redlin in a speech on the Senate floor. Redlin, a famed painter from Watertown, passed away at the age of 78 on Sunday, April 24, 2016. Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to Terry Redlin, a citizen of South Dakota who rose to fame in the 1970s as an artist known for his vivid and vibrant outdoor paintings. On Sunday, April 24, Terry passed away at the age of 78 in Watertown, where he was born and raised. Our entire state was deeply saddened to hear of his passing. Terry spent his life promoting South Dakota, and he shared his appreciation for our great state with the world through his paintings. He will be missed deeply not only by his family and loved ones, but all who admired his work throughout his distinguished career. Growing up, Terry liked to draw, but he didn’t think he would become an artist. An avid outdoorsman, he wanted to be a forest ranger so there would be plenty of opportunities to hunt and fish when he wasn’t working. Then, tragically, at the age of 15, his life was forever changed. He was badly hurt in a motorcycle accident, and his leg had to be amputated. Becoming a forest ranger was now impossible for Terry. But, Terry didn’t let that stop him from pursuing greatness. After graduating high school, Terry received a disability scholarship to help further his education. Using it, he earned a degree from the St. Paul School of Associated Arts and spent 25 successful years working in commercial art as a layout artist, graphic designer, illustrator and art director. In his spare time, he enjoyed photography, particularly of the outdoors and wildlife. Then, he started painting from his photographs and from his memories. In 1977, at the age of 40, Redlin’s painting “Winter Snows” appeared on the cover of “The Farmer” magazine. He quickly rose to prominence as an exceptional artist and started painting full time. From 1990 to 1998, each year’s poll of national art galleries by U.S. Art Magazine selected Terry Redlin as “America’s Most Popular Artist.” Over the years, many people have tried to describe the effect Terry’s paintings had on them. People connect with his paintings. They inspire us to remember personal memories of past times, places and experiences. Your heart is tugged when you look at them. There is peacefulness and warmth. Terry called it Romantic Realism. But mere words cannot describe it. As you can see from this Redlin painting beside me, ‘America, America,’ which I brought with me from my front office where it normally hangs, the beauty of his paintings are truly indescribable. His son convinced him to stop selling his original paintings and just sell prints. Someday, he said, they would build a beautiful art gallery to display all of the originals. And, they did. It could have been built in the Twin Cities, where he lived for a time, or another large metropolitan area, because Terry’s paintings are loved everywhere. Terry chose his hometown of Watertown, South Dakota, for construction of the Redlin Art Center. It was a gift to his home state and hometown for that $1,500 scholarship he was given all those years ago, which created a wonderful life for him and his family. Three million visitors came to the Redlin Art Center in the first three years and many more millions since then. Terry would sometimes walk into the galleries unannounced and visit with the guests who would then ask at the front desk, “Who is that nice man?” When told it was Terry, they were shocked and delighted. Once, Terry was seen driving slowly through the parking lot. When asked what he was doing, he said he was looking at all the different license plates. He said he was amazed that people would travel so far to see his paintings. Terry was generous to the subjects of many of his creations. His paintings and prints have been used by various wildlife and conservation groups to raise more than $40 million dollars to benefit their causes. For those of us who were blessed with the opportunity to meet and know Terry Redlin, we always came away feeling like he was our friend, so wonderful, so kind and so humble. For those who knew him through his paintings, his spirit shone brightly in all of his work. As we mourn his death and pray for his loved ones during this difficult time, may we find comfort knowing that the legacy he left behind – through his paintings – will be enjoyed and appreciated for generations to come. He was a great painter, but an even greater human being. Terry once said he wanted to paint forever. He had to paint. He said it was like breathing to him. Unfortunately, illness forced him into retirement in 2007. On Sunday, April 24, 2016, the Lord brought Terry up to heaven. Now, he can breathe again. Thank you Mr. President, I yield the floor. # # #
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Rounds Votes to Advance Legislation to Benefit South Dakota’s Water Resources Water Resources Development Act passes out of EPW Committee with Bipartisan Support WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today voted to pass the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA) out of committee. “Water is one of our most precious natural resources,” said Rounds. “In South Dakota, we rely on the Missouri River system for energy, agriculture, recreation and more. The legislation we passed out of committee today includes provisions to improve water management and make certain we are being proper stewards of our waterways. Additionally, it will give the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers the direction it needs to better manage the Missouri River and prevent a major flood event in the future.” The Water Resources Development Act of 2016 authorizes 25 critical Army Corps projects in 17 states, including South Dakota. These projects will strengthen our nation’s infrastructure to protect lives and property, restore vital ecosystems and maintain navigation routes for commerce to keep the United States globally competitive. It includes a provision that requires the Army Corps to respond to requests for contracts for surplus water from reservoirs on the Upper Missouri River within 60 days. It also includes a section specifically directing the Army Corps to be the lead agency for the snowpack and drought monitoring program authorized in the 2014 WRDA and directing the Army Corps to carry out a pilot program related to sediment management in the Upper Missouri River Basin. Rounds held an EPW subcommittee field hearing in North Sioux City last month at which Army Corps officials testified, saying their agency lacked the appropriate direction from Congress to implement the snowpack and drought monitoring program that was authorized in 2014. The passage of today’s legislation will give them the direction they need to follow through on that program. ###
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Rounds Statement on Meeting with Judge Garland WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement after his meeting with Judge Merrick Garland, President Obama’s nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court: “As a former governor, I respect the president’s responsibility to make a nomination. Today I met with Judge Garland as a courtesy. During our meeting, I thanked him for allowing the president to place his name in nomination. However, I believe that Justice Scalia’s replacement should be nominated by the next President of the United States.” ###
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Rounds Introduces Legislation to Help Treat PTSD Among Service Members WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, today introduced the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Medication Prescribing Improvement Act of 2016. This legislation would require each branch of the armed forces to monitor the prescribing practices of medications to treat symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) among service members. “Unless each branch of our armed forces carefully monitor prescriptions of medications to treat service members with PTSD, they may not be following clinical practice guidelines,” said Rounds. “This could have negative consequences for our warfighters who are undergoing treatment in military medical treatment facilities. By monitoring the prescribing practices for service members with PTSD, we can make sure our returning warfighters receive the proper treatment necessary to alleviate symptoms of PTSD.” The Defense Department and Veterans Health Administration (VHA) have jointly developed clinical practice guidelines related to PTSD, which include recommendations for the treatment of symptoms among service members and veterans with PTSD. VHA currently monitors the prescribing of medications included in the PTSD guidelines, but the Defense Department does not. ###
04.25.2016	04.25.16 Rounds Statement on Passing of Terry Redlin WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement on the passing of Terry Redlin, devout wildlife conservationist and famed painter from Watertown: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Terry Redlin,” said Rounds. “Terry had a passion for promoting South Dakota and he shared his appreciation for our great state with the world through his paintings. Jean and I send our condolences to his family, his friends and all who admired his work throughout his distinguished career.” ###
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Encourage Greater Competition & Innovation in DOD Cyber Procurement Bipartisan, bicameral legislation reforms procurement process to maximize performance and long-term value for the taxpayer WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner (D-Va.), today introduced S. 2826, the bipartisan Promoting Value Based Defense Procurement Act. The legislation would make sure that the Department of Defense (DOD) seeks the best long-term value for the taxpayers during the procurement process for complex information technology and engineering services by providing greater clarity on DOD’s existing Lowest Price, Technically Acceptable (LPTA) evaluation criteria. "The Department of Defense has a responsibility to provide our Armed Forces with high quality, advanced equipment while remaining a responsible steward of taxpayers’ dollars,” said Rounds. “This bill will help make sure that DOD is using LPTA in an appropriate manner while avoiding its use in determining source selection for complex, innovative technology and engineering services, where the least expensive option is often not the best long-term value. This is in the best interests of our war fighters and our taxpayers.” Through the LPTA process, all proposals meeting a defined set of minimum technical requirements are considered and the contract is awarded to the lowest-price bidder. However, in cases of more complex and knowledge-based procurements, such as IT services, technical requirements are often harder for DOD to fully define and articulate, and the least expensive option may not be the best overall value if it doesn’t encourage participation by private-sector partners providing innovative products and services and the most talented people. The Promoting Value Based Defense Procurement Act would make sure that DOD is using LPTA in the most effective and appropriate manner. The bill directs DOD to avoid, to the maximum extent practicable, LPTA criteria when the procurement is for information technology, systems engineering and technical assistance, or other knowledge-based professional services. Companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Don Beyer (D-Va.) and Rob Wittman (R-Va.). Full text of the bill can be found here. ###
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Rounds Offers Amendment to Energy & Water Appropriations Bill Amendment would provide funds for Army Corps to implement flood and drought monitoring system on the Missouri River WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today offered an amendment to the Energy and Water appropriations bill that would authorize the use of up to $2 million within the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) existing budget to implement Upper Missouri River Basin flood and drought monitoring systems. Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) is a cosponsor. “South Dakotans deserve certainty that the federal government has taken steps to prevent another catastrophic event similar to the 2011 flood that forced more than 4,000 families out of their homes, resulted in five deaths and caused more than $2 billion in damage to infrastructure, businesses and fertile ag land,” said Rounds. “That begins with proper tools to monitor water levels as instructed in a 2014 water resources law. During my field hearing in North Sioux City last month, Army Corps officials told me they didn’t have proper funding to implement the soil moisture and snowpack monitoring system that would help prevent a future major flood event along the Missouri River. By making these funds available, the Corps will have all the tools they need to implement the monitoring system.” Last month, Rounds chaired an Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Oversight field hearing in North Sioux City to focus on the USACE management of the Missouri River following the flood of 2011. At the time of the hearing, USACE noted that it does not have the funding to improve its soil moisture and snowpack monitoring system, nor has it made an appropriations request to Congress to take such action. You can read more about his field hearing HERE. ###
04.20.2016	04.20.16 Rounds Issues Statement Following Senate Passage of Bipartisan Energy Bill Includes his easement disclosure amendment WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the bipartisan Energy Policy Modernization Act, which included his easement disclosure amendment. The bill passed by a vote of 85-12. “For the first time in nearly a decade, the Senate passed legislation to modernize and update our nation’s energy policies,” said Rounds. “The bipartisan bill will increase energy security and help keep energy costs low for South Dakota families.” “Additionally, I’m pleased the bill includes my amendment to make sure landowners are aware of all the options available to them when choosing to place their land in a conservation easement. South Dakota’s landowners deserve to know that perpetual conservation easements aren’t their only option. My amendment will increase awareness for shorter, termed easements and result in greater access and conservation of land.” Rounds’ amendment contains language to establish a federal education program through the U.S. Department of the Interior to allow landowners to learn all of the federal conservation options available to them when choosing to restrict future use of their land through a federal easement. The agency will be required to make landowners aware of this education program when approaching them about participating in a conservation program. Additionally, the Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act, introduced by Rounds and Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), was included as part of an amendment in the Energy Policy Modernization Act. It will facilitate a permanent land transfer of approximately 200 acres of Bureau of Land Management land to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery. The bipartisan Brownfields Utilization, Investment and Local Development (BUILD) Act, also cosponsored by Rounds, was included in the Energy Policy Modernization Act. This legislation will provide funding for technical assistance grants to small communities and rural areas, expand the scope of eligible grant recipients to include non-profit community groups, and authorize funding for multi-purpose grants to tackle more complex sites. Summary of Key Provisions of the Energy Policy Modernization Act Efficiency – Energy efficiency provides significant benefits for consumers, the economy and the environment. The provisions in this title include agreements on everything from longer-term utility energy service contracts to the reauthorization of the weatherization and state energy programs. The efficiency of our homes, buildings and manufacturing facilities all stand to increase as a result of it. Infrastructure – We depend on electrical transmission lines and other infrastructure to transport energy from where it is produced to where it is used. This title will help modernize our electrical grid, enhance cybersecurity safeguards, maintain the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, provide a streamlined process for natural gas export projects and solidify a qualified, well-trained workforce. Supply – To provide for an energy supply that is increasingly abundant, affordable, clean, diverse and secure, this title focuses on the development of renewable energy, traditional resources, and non-fuel minerals alike. The responsible development of American resources – including hydropower geothermal, bioenergy and rare earth elements – will strengthen our economy, competitiveness and security for decades to come. Accountability – Practical reforms are needed to advance innovation, protect electric reliability and assure proper stewardship of taxpayer dollars. Among the provisions in this title are the reauthorization of certain energy-related components of the America COMPETES Act, better interagency coordination of energy/water initiatives, and the repeal of numerous provisions within the U.S. Code that are outdated or redundant. Conservation Reauthorization – The Committee is also responsible for oversight and stewardship of our public lands. The bipartisan legislation permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund in a way that balances land acquisition with other conservation programs important to states and permanently reauthorizes the Historic Preservation Fund, both set to expire this fall. It also creates a new National Park Maintenance and Revitalization Fund, to address the maintenance backlog at some of our nation’s most treasured public places.
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Rounds Introduces RESPECT Act Bill would repeal historically wrong, outdated statutes still on the books related to the treatment of Native Americans WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced the Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions Encouraging Conciliation with Tribes (RESPECT) Act. The RESPECT Act would repeal 12 outdated statutes that are still part of current law related to Native American education, forcible relocation of Native American children to boarding schools, war-time status between Native Americans and the federal government and the withholding of rations or money owed to Native Americans. “Native Americans are currently still legally subject to a number of historically wrong laws,” said Rounds. “These statutes are a sad reminder of the hostile aggression and overt racism displayed by the early federal government toward Native Americans as the government attempted to ‘assimilate’ them into what was considered ‘modern society.’ There is no place in our legal code for such laws. In South Dakota, which is home to nine tribes and roughly 75,000 enrolled members, we strive to work together, to constantly improve relationships and to mend our history through reconciliation and mutual respect. It is long past time to repeal these antiquated, racist statutes.” Examples of the laws that the RESPECT Act would repeal include provisions that allow for the forced removal of Native American children from their homes to be sent to boarding schools. If their parents refused, they would be denied rations. Additionally, Native Americans can still be subject to forced labor on their reservations, as a condition of their receipt of “supplies.” ### Related Files Summary of RESPECT bills.pdf
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Rounds Cosponsors Detainee Transfer Transparency Act WASHINGTON — U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today cosponsored the Detainee Transfer Transparency Act, legislation that would require the Secretary of Defense to make available to the public the intended transfer or release of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at least 21 days in advance. “The American people deserve to not only know when dangerous terrorists are being released from Guantanamo Bay, they also need to know what deals are being made with foreign countries to accept these people,” said Rounds. “The risk that these terrorists will return to the battlefield and kill Americans must take priority over the administration’s determination to fulfill a campaign promise. Additionally, the bill prohibits giving our strategically important base at Guantanamo Bay back to Cuba and would bar any terrorist detainees there from being transferred to prisons in the United States.” The Detainee Transfer Transparency Act would require the public notice from the Secretary of Defense to include: the name of the individual, the location to which the individual will be transferred or released and the current and past risk profile of the individual. If the detainee is being transferred to another location, then the notice must also include a summary of the agreement made with that location and list actions being taken to mitigate risk of another transfer or the release of the detainee. The legislation would also prohibit closure of Guantanamo Bay and prohibit the transfer of detainees to the United States. The bill, introduced by Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), is cosponsored by Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.).
04.12.2016	04.12.16 Rounds Opening Statement at EPW Subcommittee Hearing on Small Businesses’ Perspectives of EPA Regulations Hearing Entitled, “American Small Businesses’ Perspectives on Environmental Protection Agency Regulatory Actions” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, today delivered the following opening statement at the hearing, “American Small Businesses’ Perspectives on Environmental Protection Agency Regulatory Actions.” The purpose of the hearing is to examine how regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) affect small businesses in the United States. Rounds opening statement, as prepared for delivery: “The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing on “American Small Businesses’ Perspectives on Environmental Protection Agency Regulatory Actions.” The purpose of the hearing is to further this subcommittee’s oversight of EPA’s rulemaking process. We have already held hearings examining the science advisory process underpinning EPA regulatory action, the sue-and-settle agreements that result in new EPA regulations, and the EPA’s approach to economic analysis used to justify regulations. This hearing will examine EPA’s consideration for small businesses in its rulemaking process and the real-world impacts of EPA regulation from the perspective of regulatory experts and small business owners. America’s small businesses are the backbone of the U.S. economy. The 28 million small businesses in the United States provide 55 percent of all American jobs and make up 99.7 percent of U.S. employer firms. The ability to build a small business from the ground up is a cornerstone of the American dream. Small businesses are able to flourish in our country. They provide jobs for millions of Americans and account for 54 percent of all U.S. sales. Unfortunately, despite their success, American small businesses are hindered by approximately 3,000 current and pending regulations that will impact small businesses and cost $1.75 trillion annually in compliance costs. The Environmental Protection Agency imposes some of the most significant and far-reaching regulatory burdens on small businesses. According to the Small Business Administration, EPA regulations cost small businesses 364 percent more to comply than large businesses. For example, EPA’s greenhouse gas reporting rule is estimated to be 65 times more burdensome for small businesses than larger entities. American small businesses are burdened with sweeping EPA regulations and provided few resources to aid them in complying with a myriad of confusing and costly regulations. In a recent study, 90 percent of respondents identified government regulations as a challenge affecting their business. Mindful of the disproportionate impacts federal regulations could have on small businesses, Congress passed the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) in 1980, which requires federal agencies to analyze how their regulations will impact small businesses and consider less burdensome alternatives. The RFA requires agencies to convene a small business advocacy review panel to receive input from small business representatives before a proposed rule is issued. However, the Government Accountability Office and others have found that the RFA does not define a number of key terms and the courts have done little to clarify these terms. Additionally, while courts have held agencies are not required under the RFA to analyze the effect of a regulation on small businesses if the regulation only indirectly impacts small businesses, agencies are still bound by executive orders to consider a regulation’s impact on these businesses. Yet, the EPA claims major environmental regulations, such as revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, or NAAQS, will have no significant impact on small businesses because the NAAQS standards apply directly to states, not small businesses. However, these regulations will lead to significant economic harm on small businesses. Further, the EPA has improperly certified that major regulations imposed by the Obama Administration, such as the Waters of the U.S. Rule and the Clean Power Plan will not have significant impacts on U.S. small businesses. However, the independent Small Business Administration’s Office of Advocacy, the government agency tasked with providing support and resources to small businesses, expressed concerns over each of these rules, even going so far as to urge the EPA to withdraw the expansive Waters of the U.S. Rule due to concerns regarding the costly impact the rule will have on small businesses. The Office of Advocacy also pointed out particular challenges that would be faced by small businesses in complying with the EPA’s proposed federal compliance plan for the Clean Power Plan and how it would impact small businesses. American small businesses provide jobs, products, and services for millions of Americans. We must recognize the unique characteristics and challenges faced by this vital segment of the U.S. economy so that businesses are able to thrive and grow, rather than be burdened by complex, overreaching EPA regulations that run contrary to the original intent of Congress. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony.” ###
04.08.2016	04.08.16 Rounds Sends Letter to IRS Commissioner Concerning Taxpayer Identity Theft PIERRE—U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), members of the Senate Banking Committee, today sent a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen raising concerns about a cyber hack into the IRS’ Identity Protection (IP) Personal Identification Number (PIN) program which potentially exposed the personal information of 130,000 taxpayers. The letter asks Commissioner Koskinen to explain what the IRS is doing to help tax fraud victims, what it is doing to upgrade the IP PIN program and what it is doing to combat taxpayer fraud. “As you are aware, taxpayer identity theft fraud occurs when a criminal obtains the name and social security number from an unsuspecting taxpayer,” wrote the senators. “The thief files a fraudulent, often inflated, tax return in an effort to steal the rightful taxpayers’ refund. Often taxpayers only become aware of the fraud when they attempt to file a legitimate tax return and discover a return has been filed and a refund issued in their name. For many Americans, being cheated out of their refund is financially devastating.” “The IRS response to this predatory problem should not just include reactive programs, initiatives designed to help taxpayers already victims of tax refund fraud, but the IRS should also consider proactive measures to protect all tax filers before tax identity theft occurs. The rising total of data breaches, increasing the availability of personal information to individuals with criminal intent, necessitates the need for the IRS to create effective programs to preemptively stop tax identity theft.” Full text of the letter: April 8, 2016 John Koskinen Commissioner The Internal Revenue Service 111 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20224 Dear Commissioner Koskinen, We are deeply concerned about the growing number of cases involving taxpayer identity theft and write regarding the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) efforts to combat this problem facing our constituents and Americans across the country. As you are aware, taxpayer identity theft fraud occurs when a criminal obtains the name and social security number from an unsuspecting taxpayer. The thief files a fraudulent, often inflated, tax return in an effort to steal the rightful taxpayers’ refund. Often taxpayers only become aware of the fraud when they attempt to file a legitimate tax return and discover a return has been filed and a refund issued in their name. For many Americans, being cheated out of their refund is financially devastating. In recognition of the growing threat of taxpayer identity theft, the IRS created the Identity Protection (IP) Personal Identification Number (PIN) program, a six-digit number issued by the IRS to confirmed victims of identity theft. Once an IP PIN has been issued, it must be included when filing tax returns or the application will be rejected. Given that the IP PIN was a tool meant to help taxpayers, we were distressed to learn that the IRS was forced to suspend the program due to security failures related to online retrieval of IP PINs.[1] In March, the IRS admitted that more than 130,000 IP PIN accounts could have been compromised and in that same release, the IRS also stated that it has stopped 800 fraudulent returns connected. This is a step in the right direction, but clearly more needs to be done to protect the more than 130,000 tax accounts that may be at risk. The IRS response to this predatory problem should not just include reactive programs, initiatives designed to help taxpayers already victims of tax refund fraud, but the IRS should also consider proactive measures to protect all tax filers before tax identity theft occurs. The rising total of data breaches, increasing the availability of personal information to individuals with criminal intent, necessitates the need for the IRS to create effective programs to preemptively stop tax identity theft. Taxpayer identity theft is a growing problem for the IRS. According to a 2014 Government Accountability Office report, the IRS paid out $5.8 billion in fraudulent tax returns due to taxpayer identity theft in the 2013 tax year. As of September 30, 2015, the IRS handled over 600,000 tax identity theft cases, a 150% increase since 2014. To combat this problem, the IRS must make certain that taxpayer information and refunds are kept secure against the growing threat of taxpayer identity theft. To that end, we request the IRS respond to our questions regarding their efforts to tackle this damaging practice: What extra scrutiny is the IRS giving to the returns of the 130,000 impacted taxpayers to stop the processing of fraudulent tax returns? What assistance is the IRS providing to taxpayers whose information has been compromised? According to Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, IP PIN applications relied on single-factor authentication, leaving taxpayer information vulnerable to cyber criminals. Is the IRS considering implementing a stronger authentication process? If so, what type of stronger identification process is the IRS considering? If not, why not? In addition to authentication, is the IRS considering modifications to the IP PIN program specifically to secure sensitive personal information and fight taxpayer identity theft? If so, what modifications are being considered? If not, why not? Is the IRS considering other measures to ensure unscrupulous individuals do not access, or are able to obtain, taxpayer information in order to cheat the taxpayer and the tax system? What steps is the IRS taking to proactively fight taxpayer identity theft generally so that taxpayers do not lose their refunds to fraudulent filers? We appreciate your attention to this issue and hope you will address deficiencies in protecting consumers by issuing the strongest security measures to safeguard taxpayer information and taxpayer dollars. Sincerely, ### Related Files 16 04 08 SL IRS Tax ID Theft.pdf
04.08.2016	04.08.16 Rounds Statement on Administration Move to Loosen Sanctions on Iran WASHINGTON--U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement on the administration's proposed move to loosen sanctions on Iran by giving them limited access to U.S. dollars: “Once again the Administration is loosening sanctions on Iran in a way it told Congress it would not do," said Rounds. "The JCPOA was bad enough but providing Iran with further access to US dollars is simply wrong. It will only provide further opportunities to enrich this terrorist state.” ###
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Rounds Introduces Iran Cyber Sanctions Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced the Iran Cyber Sanctions Act, which would require the president to submit a report to Congress detailing significant activities conducted by Iranians to undermine U.S. cybersecurity. “Some of the most serious threats facing the United States today are cyber-attacks,” said Rounds. “Iran and our other enemies currently use sophisticated technology to carry out cyber-attacks against U.S. businesses and our government. By reporting and sanctioning perpetrators, we can stop additional cyber-attacks before they happen and identify where future threats may come from.” The bill would also require the president to add any individual included in his report to Congress to the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals List. When someone is added to this list, his or her assets within a U.S. jurisdiction are blocked from being accessed and U.S. individuals are prevented from doing business with listed individuals. If the president chooses to exempt an individual from the Specially Designated Nationals List, he must explain to Congress why he or she was not included. Rounds’ legislation would require the president’s report to Congress to include: The identity of individuals who have knowingly engaged in efforts to undermine U.S. cybersecurity. A description of the conduct engaged by each person. An assessment of the extent to which Iran or another foreign government has provided material support for significant activities undermining cybersecurity. A strategy to counter efforts by Iranian individuals to conduct significant activities undermining cybersecurity. On March 24, 2016, the U.S. Justice Department indicted 7 Iranian individuals, who were employed by two Iran-based computer companies, involved with a 2013 cyber-attack against the Bowman Avenue Dam in New York and a 2011 Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) campaign against the U.S. financial sector.
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Rounds Statement on Fiduciary Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today issued the following statement after the Department of Labor (DOL) released its fiduciary rule. “I oppose the fiduciary rule issued today, as it will have harmful consequences for American families saving for retirement,” said Rounds. “The rule will limit the availability of retirement investment advice for millions of people, especially low- and moderate-income Americans. The many regulations issued by the Obama administration consistently place undue financial burdens on already-overtaxed Americans, and the fiduciary rule is no different.” In May 2015, Rounds, along with 35 senators, sent a letter to DOL Secretary Thomas Perez requesting the DOL revise its proposed fiduciary rule and extend the comment period. In October 2015, DOL agreed to rework its proposed rule. Unfortunately, the rule issued today will leave many without critical access to quality retirement advice. Rounds is a cosponsor of S. 2502, the Affordable Retirement Advice Protection Act, and S. 2505, the Strengthening Access to Valuable Education and Retirement Support Act, both of which aim to establish more workable fiduciary standards and prevent the DOL’s fiduciary rule from being implemented.
04.04.2016	04.04.16 Rounds Attends Keel Laying Ceremony for the Navy’s 17th Virginia Class Submarine SOUTH DAKOTA WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today spoke at the keel laying ceremony for the SSN-790, which will be commissioned as the USS South Dakota. The South Dakota is a next-generation, Virginia Class nuclear submarine designed to fulfill 21st century mission requirements. It is scheduled to join the fleet in August 2018. Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: General and Mrs. Dempsey, Governor Raimondo, Senator Whitehouse, Congressman Langevin, Congressman Courtney and Admiral Jabalay. On behalf of the people of South Dakota I am honored to join you and all who are here today for this wonderful event. As a lifelong South Dakotan, this is very special for me to represent the people of my state at the keel laying of the USS South Dakota. With today’s ceremony, a new symbolic link is forged between our state and the Navy. Additionally, as a member of the Seapower Subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee it is truly a privilege to be present for a milestone in the history of a future vessel of such importance for our national security. It is also a tribute to South Dakotans’ long history of service in our armed forces, to include service which continues today throughout our Navy. And of course that service will continue throughout the decades that this magnificent vessel will serve our nation. It has been nearly seven decades since the last USS South Dakota, a battleship, was recognized with this honor. I am confident this USS South Dakota will follow proudly in the tradition of its forebear which had such a distinguished history during World War II. South Dakotans can be proud of that history and the history that will be written by the submarine we recognize today. I look forward to following that history in the years to come. Finally, I would like to thank the brave sailors who served on the USS South Dakota in decades past and thank in advance those who will serve on the future USS South Dakota. Thank you for the opportunity to join you today and for the honor of representing the people of South Dakota at this special event.
04.04.2016	04.04.16 Rounds Joins 42 Senators to File Amicus Brief in Supreme Court Case Challenging Obama Administration’s Immigration Executive Actions WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with 42 of his Senate colleagues, today filed an amicus brief in the United States Supreme Court in support of a challenge by a majority of the nation’s governors and attorneys general of the states, led by the State of Texas, to the Obama Administration’s November 2014 executive actions on immigration. “Given that the Executive has asserted that the acts challenged here are not even subject to judicial review, what is at stake in this matter is nothing less than an effort to supplant Congress’s constitutional power to ‘establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization.’ Such an action stands in stark contravention to federal law and to the constitutional principle of the separation of powers,” the Senators’ amicus brief states. “There is little doubt that the Executive adopted the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (“DAPA”) program as part of an explicit effort to circumvent the legislative process.” The Supreme Court took up this case (United States of America vs. State of Texas) after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in November of 2015 affirmed a preliminary injunction by a federal district court in Brownsville, Texas blocking the Obama Administration from moving forward with its executive actions on immigration that are in violation of federal law. The Supreme Court is set to hear arguments on this case on April 18th. The 43 senators who joined the amicus brief are Senators Rounds, Alexander, Barrasso, Blunt, Boozman, Capito, Cassidy, Coats, Cochran, Corker, Cornyn, Cotton, Crapo, Cruz, Daines, Enzi, Fischer, Graham, Grassley, Hatch, Hoeven, Inhofe, Isakson, Johnson, Lankford, Lee, McCain, McConnell, Moran, Paul, Perdue, Risch, Roberts, Rubio, Sasse, Scott, Sessions, Shelby, Sullivan, Thune, Tillis, Vitter, and Wicker. Related Files 4.4.16 US v Texas Amicus Brief2.pdf
03.31.2016	03.31.16 Rounds Opening Statement at Subcommittee Hearing on Missouri River Management Hearing Entitled, “Five Years from the Flood: Oversight of the Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River and Suggestions for Improvement” North Sioux City—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Waste, Superfund and Oversight Management, today delivered the following remarks at his hearing entitled, “Five Years from the Flood: Oversight of the Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River and Suggestions for Improvement.,” The focus of the hearing is the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) management of the Missouri River since the 2011 flood. Rounds opening statement, as prepared for delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a field hearing entitled “Five Years from the Flood: Oversight of the Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River and Suggestions for Improvement”. I would like to thank our witnesses for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. The United States Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for managing the Missouri River to meet the needs of both the Corps and the surrounding communities. In order for this to be successful, management of the river should always be done with extensive communication among stakeholders and a well-founded understanding of the needs of state and local governments, agriculture, recreation and economic interests – all of which depend on proper management of the Missouri River. In 2011, record-setting rains, unusually moist soil conditions, and melting snow from a near-record setting snowfall in the Rocky Mountains and Northern Plains states combined to form a perfect storm that led to catastrophic flooding all along the Missouri River basin. From May through August, extensive flooding caused major damage on residences, infrastructure, businesses and agriculture in the basin states of South Dakota, North Dakota, Iowa, Nebraska, Missouri, and Montana and Kansas. The flood caused more than $2 billion dollars in damages and resulted in 5 fatalities. 4,000 homes were flooded. Roads were destroyed, and agricultural land was ruined. Entire communities were under attack from the 2011 flood, largely left to fend for themselves. The Federal Emergency Management Administration, or FEMA, issued disaster declarations in each state in this region. In our state capital of Pierre and neighboring Fort Pierre, residents were given less than one week to prepare for what would be one of the worst floods in 60 years. After the flood, the city’s streets, sewage system, storm sewers, parks and electrical systems suffered unprecedented damage that cost millions of dollars to repair. The recovery took months. Citizens are still paying for the damages. When the flood waters had receded and life began to return to normal the next step was to make sure that any and all measures were taken to make certain this never happens again. A 2014 Government Accountability Office report concluded that improving existing hydrologic data and collecting new soil moisture, plains snowpack, and archeological flood and drought data could assist the Corps in making future release decision and in improving long-term forecasting models. Accordingly, a 2014 Water Resources Reform bill, commonly known as WRRDA, authorized the Army Corps to coordinate with various government agencies to create a soil moisture and snowpack monitoring network in the Upper Missouri River Basin. Since the flood, we have also been confronted with several other issues involving the Army Corps’ management of the Missouri River. In 2008, the Army Corps issued Real Estate Guidance Policy Letter Number 26. This directive required municipal and industrial water users from the Missouri River Mainstem Reservoirs to acquire a water storage contract from the Corps before the Corps would issue an access easement for a pump site. Since the issuance of this guidance policy, the Corps has been seemingly unable or unwilling to issue access easements to South Dakotans seeking to utilize water from the Missouri. Additionally, the Corps has been undertaking surplus water studies and engaging in a rulemaking effort to standardize how the Corps will charge citizens for surplus water storage. The 2014 WRRDA bill prohibited the Corps from charging a fee for surplus water for ten years. This prohibition should be permanent – South Dakotans should not be required to pay a fee of any kind for using water from the Missouri River. Proper management of the Missouri River is vital to life in the Midwest. We depend on the Missouri River not only for recreation, but for agriculture and irrigation, shipping and hydroelectric power. The Missouri River is vital to our livelihood and our economy. It has now been nearly five years since the flood. Today we will be hearing testimony from both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and state and local stakeholders regarding the Corps’ management of the Missouri River. We will be exploring what the Corps is doing right, what can be improved upon and how Congress can help get the Corps and the communities the resources they need to manage this vital resource. We will also offer suggestions on how the Corps’ management can be improved in order to prevent future flooding and better meet the needs of both the surrounding communities and the Corps. Each witness will have five minutes to present their testimony and I will then follow-up with questions to the witnesses. I’d like to again thank our witnesses for being with us today and I look forward to hearing your testimony.
03.21.2016	03.21.16 Rounds to Hold EPW Field Hearing in North Sioux City on March 31 WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Waste, Superfund and Oversight Management, announced today he will chair a subcommittee hearing on March 31, 2016, in North Sioux City. The hearing, entitled, “Five Years from the Flood: Oversight of the Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River and Suggestions for Improvement,” will focus on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) management of the Missouri River since the 2011 flood. The media and public are invited to attend. WHAT: Field Hearing entitled, “Five Years from the Flood: Oversight of the Army Corps’ Management of the Missouri River and Suggestions for Improvement” WHEN: Thursday, March 31 at 1:00 p.m. CT WHERE: North Sioux City Council Chambers at City Hall 504 River Drive North Sioux City, SD Those wishing to submit comments to Sen. Rounds ahead of the hearing can do so by emailing comments@rounds.senate.gov on or before Monday, March 28th.
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Rounds Statement on President Obama’s Nomination of Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today delivered remarks on the Senate floor after President Obama nominated Merrick Garland, chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, to the United States Supreme Court. “Whoever is confirmed to fill the open seat on the Supreme Court will be serving a lifetime appointment,” said Rounds. “Keeping in mind the current political makeup of the court, the man or woman who will replace Justice Scalia has the potential to hold incredible influence over the ideological direction of the court for a generation to come. It is critically important that the next justice is committed to upholding the principles of the Constitution. We owe it to Justice Scalia, our judicial system and the Constitution to uphold the highest standards when determining our next Supreme Court Justice. We also owe it to the American people to make certain their voice is heard in this election.” Full video is available here: http://www.rounds.senate.gov/newsroom/videos/sen-mike-rounds-r-sd-speaks-on-president-obamas-nomination-to-the-supreme-court Full remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court in light of President Obama’s announcement that he has nominated Chief Judge Merrick Garland to replace Justice Scalia. Replacing Justice Antonin Scalia, who was one of the court’s strongest defenders of our Constitution, will be difficult. For almost 30 years, with his brilliant legal mind and animated character, he fiercely fought against judicial activism and legislating from the bench. He will be greatly missed by not only his family and loved ones, but all Americans who share his core conservative values and beliefs. Under the Constitution, the president shall nominate a replacement, as he did today, and the Senate has a Constitutional role of “advice and consent.” This is a Constitutional responsibility that I take very seriously. The decisions the Supreme Court makes often have long-lasting ramifications that – with one vote margins – can dramatically alter the course of our country. At a time when the current administration has stretched the limits of the law and attempted to circumvent Congress and the federal court system, choosing the right candidate with the aptitude for this lifetime appointment is as important as ever. I have determined that my benchmark for the next Supreme Court Justice will be Justice Scalia himself. Scalia’s strict interpretation of the Constitution and deference to states’ rights set a gold standard by which his replacement should be measured. As you all know, every Republican member of the Senate Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell expressing their firm belief that the people of the United States deserve to have a voice in determining the next Supreme Court justice. In their letter they wrote, “Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution is clear. The president may nominate judges of the Supreme Court. But the power to grant - or withhold - consent to such nominees rests exclusively with the United States Senate.” As a result, the committee does not plan on holding any hearings related to this issue until after a new president has taken office. This decision will allow the American people to have a voice in the next Supreme Court Justice based upon who they elect as president this November. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have argued that the American people did have a voice when they elected President Obama in 2012 – but that election was nearly 3 and a half years ago. Since that time, a lot has changed in our country, signaling a shift in Americans’ views of our president and his philosophy of governing. You don’t need to look any further than the 2014 elections for proof: In the 2014 elections, the United States Senate switched from Democrat control to Republican control. In fact, I am one of those Republican Senators who replaced a Democrat in the last election. Many of us who ran were not supporting the president’s policies. In fact, we ran because we wanted to change the direction that the president was moving our country. At the state level – in 2012 – the last time President Obama was elected, there were 29 Republican governors and 20 Democrat governors. In 2014, the number of Republican Governors rose from 29 to 31, while the number of Democrat Governors decreased from 20 to 18. We saw similar results in state legislative races. In 2012, Republicans held a majority in both chambers of 26 state legislatures. In 2014, that number rose to 30, and, if you take into account the conservative-leaning but officially nonpartisan legislature of Nebraska, that number jumps even higher, to 31. In 2012, Democrats held the majority of both chambers in 15 states. In 2014, that number was only 11. So in the years since the president’s last election, Republicans not only held a strong majority in the House of Representatives, they took back control of the U.S. Senate and increased their numbers at the state level as well. There is no doubt that there has been a clear shift in the minds of the American people since President Obama’s last election. I believe, just as many of my colleagues, that the Republican victories of 2014 should be taken into consideration, and therefore, we should wait to confirm the next Supreme Court Justice until after a new president takes office. Overwhelmingly, South Dakotans who have contacted my office agree with this decision. One gentleman from Lemmon wrote to me saying, “Our country hangs in the balance as to what the future of this great country will look like… This decision is too crucial and the next Supreme Court nominee should be nominated by the next President of the United States.” Another South Dakotan, from Brandon, noted that “This is a rare opportunity for the American voter to actually have a voice in how the Court will be structured for many years to come. Please help preserve that opportunity for us all.” In another example, a woman from Estelline wrote saying, “Hearing of the passing of Justice Scalia was heartbreaking news. I ask that you do your part to allow the people to have a say in who the next Justice of the Supreme Court will be.” These are just a few examples of the numerous South Dakotans who have contacted my office who agree that the American people deserve a voice in the direction our court will take in the decades to come. And as much as my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would like to see the Senate confirm a nominee from our current president, the reality is, that when the tables are turned, they agree with our position! In fact it was Vice President Joe Biden, who when he served as Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said on this very floor in 1992 that, “It is my view that if the President goes the way of Presidents Fillmore and Johnson and presses an election-year nomination, the Senate Judiciary Committee should seriously consider not scheduling confirmation hearings on the nomination until after the political campaign season is over.” And it was Minority Leader Harry Reid who said in 2005 that “the duties of the United States Senate are set forth in the Constitution of the United States. Nowhere in that document does it say the Senate has a duty to give Presidential nominees a vote.” And the Senate Democrat’s next leader, Senator Schumer, who said in 2007 – close to two years before President Bush’s term ended - that "We should not confirm any Bush nominee to the Supreme Court, except in extraordinary circumstances." Whoever is confirmed to fill the open seat on the Supreme Court will be serving a lifetime appointment. Keeping in mind the current political makeup of the court, the man or woman who will replace Justice Scalia has the potential to hold incredible influence over the ideological direction of the court for a generation to come. It is critically important that the next justice is committed to upholding the principles of the Constitution. We owe it to Justice Scalia, our judicial system and the Constitution to uphold the highest standards when determining our next Supreme Court Justice. We also owe it to the American people to make certain their voice is heard in the upcoming elections. For these reasons, I agree with my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee and in Senate Leadership that we should not hold hearings on a Supreme Court nominee until after our new president takes office. ###
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of Bill to Combat Prescription Drug Addiction WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today voted for S. 524, the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2016, which passed out of the Senate today by a vote of 94-1. CARA seeks to address the growing opioid abuse epidemic in the United States by authorizing state and local grants for treatment, stronger law enforcement and recovery programs. Opioids is another term for heroin and prescription painkillers. “The number of Americans addicted to heroin and prescription painkillers has more than doubled in the last 15 years,” said Rounds. “It is a devastating dependency that has spread to all corners of our society, impacting not only those who suffer from addiction, but their friends, families and entire communities. Fortunately, opioid addiction is treatable and preventable. Our bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act provides a comprehensive, evidence-based approach to help Americans combat this epidemic beginning at the local level. By expanding prevention efforts, enhancing support for law enforcement and increasing access to treatment, we can begin to reverse and stop the growing epidemic of opioid addiction.” The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 will: Expand prevention and educational efforts—particularly aimed at teens, parents and other caretakers, and aging populations—to prevent the abuse of opioids and heroin and to promote treatment and recovery. Expand the availability of naloxone to law enforcement agencies and other first responders to help in the reversal of overdoses to save lives. Expand resources to identify and treat incarcerated individuals suffering from addiction disorders promptly by collaborating with criminal justice stakeholders and by providing evidence-based treatment. Expand disposal sites for unwanted prescription medications to keep them out of the hands of our children and adolescents. Launch an evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and intervention program to expand best practices throughout the country. Launch a medication assisted treatment and intervention demonstration program. Strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion and to help at-risk individuals access services.
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Rounds Introduces Legislation to Gain VA Financial Accountability WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced legislation requiring the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to produce an annual report to Congress detailing the cost of the health care it provides. The Veterans Health Administration Spending Transparency and Oversight Act of 2016 authorizes the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into an agreement to produce the report, due no later than March 1st of each year. It is similar to other reporting requirements for federal agencies. An example is an annual requirement for the Defense Department to produce a report detailing the costs of its Tricare health care benefits program. “Veterans across the country continue to experience problems with health care delivery at the VA, including backlogs, long wait times and frequent billing errors,” said Rounds. “As we seek to address these issues, the oversight role of Congress is as important as ever. Having accurate cost accounting by the VHA will help Congress identify legislative options aimed at better health care for our nation’s veterans, who have selflessly defended and protected our freedoms. We owe it to them to make certain they receive the best care possible.” ###
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Rounds: Administration Must Fix Obamacare’s Employer Mandate Glitch for Tribes WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen urging the administration to work with tribal governments to remove the employer mandate penalties imposed on tribal employers under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Tribal members are exempted from the ACA’s individual mandate that forces each individual to purchase health insurance and the federal government has a trust responsibility to provide them care. Yet tribal governments are at risk for being penalized under the ACA’s employer mandate, which requires employers with 50 or more employees to provide health insurance, despite the fact that the vast majority of tribal employees are tribal members. “The federal government has a trust obligation to provide health care to Native American tribes and members,” wrote Rounds. “Indian Health Service, a federal government entity designed to meet those health care needs, has failed miserably. The Internal Revenue Service, via the ACA, now appears to be on a mission to penalize an entire group of people who represent some of the poorest among us, and to whom the federal government actually is obligated to provide health care.” “Here is the irony: 1) Tribes are communal and represent their membership who may be exempt. In the federal government’s eyes they are apparently being viewed as a municipality or private industry; and 2) one government health care program (ACA) is penalizing tribes because another government agency (IHS) has failed to do its job. Frankly, this appears to be an oversight by a federal agency who fails to understand tribal communities.” Full text of the letter is below: March 09, 2016 Mr. John Koskinen Commissioner Internal Revenue Service U.S. Department of the Treasury 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Room 3241 Washington, DC 20224 Dear Commissioner Koskinen, I write in regard to the upcoming employer mandate penalties authorized by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Specifically, I am concerned about the impact and the irony of the ACA employer mandate penalties as it affects tribal employers. Because of the mandate, South Dakota tribal employers are facing exorbitant penalties that they cannot afford. As you may know, the ACA exempted tribal members from the individual mandate. Tribes themselves are comprised of their membership who may be exempted. Tribal members are exempted considering the federal government is already obligated to cover their health care needs. However, the tribes are treated in a different manner. Although the vast majority of their employees are tribal members, the ACA supposedly subjects them to employer mandate penalties. This is a double standard that will adversely impact tribes. Indeed, the federal government has a trust obligation to provide health care to Native American tribes and members. Indian Health Service (IHS), a federal government entity designed to meet those health care needs, has failed miserably. The Internal Revenue Service, via the ACA, now appears to be on a mission to penalize an entire group of people who represent some of the poorest among us, and to whom the federal government actually is obligated to provide health care. Here is the irony: 1) Tribes are communal and represent their membership who may be exempt. In the federal government’s eyes they are apparently being viewed as a municipality or private industry; and 2) one government health care program (ACA) is penalizing tribes because another government agency (IHS) has failed to do its job. Frankly, this appears to be an oversight by a federal agency who fails to understand tribal communities. These fines could devastate tribal business when Indian country already has some of the highest unemployment rates in the country. Some tribes in South Dakota hover around 80 percent unemployment. The last thing they need is an onerous penalty handed down from the federal government. I respectfully request you work with the tribes to find a solution before any penalties are imposed. Or as an alternative, please consider exempting tribal employers from the mandate. Please respond within 90 days of receipt of this letter. Sincerely, M. Michael Rounds United States Senator
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Rounds Introduces South Dakota Witness at Senate EPW Hearing WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today introduced Secretary Steve Pirner of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources as a witness at an EPW Committee hearing on states’ perspectives on federal regulatory actions. Today’s hearing, entitled “Cooperative Federalism: State Perspectives on EPA Regulatory Actions and the Role of States as Co-Regulators,” focused on whether the current regulatory framework between states and the EPA is working and upholding the principle of cooperative federalism. Click to watch video of Rounds' introduction of Secretary Pirner: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JNZ5uRLeQjA&feature=youtu.be Rounds’ Introductory Statement as prepared for delivery: Secretary Pirner has served as the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) Secretary for three South Dakota governors, but he has also been in various positions at DENR since 1979. Secretary Pirner has more than three decades of experience with EPA regulations and is truly an expert in the field. Secretary Pirner has an impressive breadth of experience in every type of environmental regulation. He has extensive experience in EPA rules regulating water, air and toxic substances. Secretary Pirner leads an agency with approximately 180 full time employees. The small group of employees is responsible for administering nearly all of the environmental laws from the EPA such as the Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act. They are also responsible for administering various state environmental laws in a state with over 77,000 square miles of land. Secretary Pirner knows all too well the demands on a small state agency with limited budgets that they face while attempting to administer the increasing multitude of EPA regulations forced upon the states. Every day, he is confronted with the challenge of managing his agency’s resources in a way that will allow them to fulfill all of their state and federal duties as the environmental regulatory agency in South Dakota. It should also be noted that 30 percent of DENR’s operating budget is reliant upon federal funds. Every day, Secretary Pirner’s goal is to make sure that South Dakotans enjoy the cleanest air and water possible. In South Dakota, our environmental record is a source of pride for all of us. During the time that I worked as governor in South Dakota for eight years, Steve was the secretary of this department. He comes with a wealth of knowledge and an interest in seeing that things get done and get done correctly.”
03.08.2016	03.08.16 Rounds Introduces Veterans Equal Cost for Care Act of 2016 WASHINGTON— U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today introduced the Veterans Equal Cost for Care Act of 2016 to improve care for veterans who receive health care under the Choice Act program. This legislation would amend the Choice Act by eliminating the “secondary payer clause” to make certain veterans do not pay more for private care under the Choice Act than they would if they were seen at a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facility. “Because we are a large, rural state, South Dakota veterans are disproportionately forced to use the Choice Act program to receive care at a non-VA facility,” said Rounds. “The intent of the Choice Act, which is to provide relief to those facing long appointment wait times and those who live far from VA facilities, is undermined because of higher out-of-pocket costs and reimbursement issues. In fact, problems with the Choice Act is the number one issue my constituent services representatives handle on a day-to-day basis. “The Veterans Equal Cost for Care Act would make certain veterans do not pay more for private care under the Choice Act program than they would if they were seen at a VA facility. If the VA doesn’t have the capacity to serve the veterans it is intended to serve, it is only right that it picks up the bill for outsourcing its duties. It is a step in the right direction toward addressing the many problems within the VA to make certain our veterans receive the best care possible.” In response to long wait times at VA facilities, the 113th Congress passed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act (Choice Act) in 2014. The Choice Act authorizes veterans who live more than 40 miles from a VA facility or are forced to wait more than 30 days for an appointment the opportunity to receive care at non-VA facilities. However, the Choice Act also includes a “secondary payer clause” for veterans who have private health insurance that forces these veterans to pay more out-of-pocket than they would for the same care at a VA facility. Rounds’ legislation repeals the “secondary payer clause.” # # #
03.07.2016	03.07.16 Rounds Statement on the Passing of Nancy Reagan PIERRE— U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on the passing of former first lady Nancy Reagan, who died yesterday in her home at the age of 94. “Jean and I send our deepest condolences to the Reagan family during this difficult time,” said Rounds. “Nancy Reagan epitomized grace and civility in a political arena that too often lacks both. She will be remembered for many things, including the deep love and loyalty she had for her husband and for her lifelong commitment to public service. We will keep her family in our thoughts and prayers as we all mourn the loss of this very special first lady.”
03.02.2016	03.02.16 Rounds Discusses Veterans’ Access to Health Care with VFW Representatives during Joint Hearing Rounds: “In rural areas, we struggle with getting health care professionals appropriately distributed throughout the entire state.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today at a joint Senate and House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing discussed access to timely, quality health care for veterans in rural areas, and the option for veterans to utilize non-Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) providers when they live far away from a VA facility. Rounds exchanged comments with Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Commander-in-Chief John Biedrzycki and Executive Director Bob Wallace. “Simply getting someplace where you can find appropriate health care is a challenge to begin with,” said Rounds. “I noticed in your opening statements you indicated that you really were concerned that we not privatize the VA, and yet, I don’t think that by suggesting we not privatize the VA that you were indicating an unwillingness to have non-VA services provided [to veterans].” “We should leverage what VA has and what the community has to get the best of both worlds for the veteran so they get the health care they need in a timely manner,” replied Wallace. “It makes no sense to send somebody 200 miles because it says ‘VA’ on a structure when you can send them down the street and the VA has a contract with them and they get quality care because the VA is the guarantor managing it.” “What I hear is, we ought to be focusing on the veteran,” replied Rounds. Full video of the exchange during the Joint Veterans’ Affairs Committee Hearing is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q8CIVqeP55Q&feature=youtu.be
03.01.2016	03.01.16 Rounds Supports Senate Ag Committee Passage of Bill to Stop States from Mandatory Biotechnology Labeling Agrees to Cosponsor Bill as it Heads to Full Senate for Consideration WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today supported the Senate Agriculture Committee’s passage of legislation to prevent mandatory labeling of food produced from biotechnology seeds - commonly referred to as GMOs - at the state level by creating a national voluntary labeling system for bioengineered foods. The bill would pre-empt states mandatory labeling and create a voluntary federal standard. The bill passed out of the Senate Ag Committee by a vote of 14-6 with bipartisan support. “While extensive testing and scientific studies have demonstrated that genetically engineered crops are just as safe as non-GMO crops, consumers should have the option to purchase products without them if they so choose. Nothing in federal law prevents companies from selling such products today. But food companies – who often sell their products across state lines to consumers in many different states – should not be unnecessarily burdened with 50 different labeling requirements. A voluntary, streamlined approach that sets a new national labeling standard will reduce compliance costs without forcing companies to include – or not include – labeling information on the bioengineered content of their products.” This legislation is supported by South Dakota Agri-Business Association, South Dakota Farm Bureau and more than 650 agribusiness organizations. ###
02.24.2016	02.24.16 Rounds Discusses Future of Hot Springs VA During Veterans’ Committee Hearing American Legion National Commander: “We’ve had so many promises in this area of Hot Springs. It’s time we get the truth.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today at a joint Senate and House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing discussed the proposed reconfiguration of the Black Hills Health Care System with American Legion leadership. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is currently holding a public comment period on the environmental impact statement regarding the reconfiguration which will cut health care services at the VA hospital at Hot Springs. During the exchange, American Legion officials expressed frustration with the VA for failing to be forthcoming with the agency’s plans for the facility and put the best interest of area veterans first. “We’ve had so many promises in this area of Hot Springs; it’s time we get the truth,” said American Legion National Commander Dale Barnett during the exchange. “Hot Springs is a community that was built and based upon service to the veterans,” said Rounds. “It was one of the earliest hospitals ever created in the United States to take care of veterans. It was put there for a reason. Individuals in Hot Springs have been there for generations serving veterans. To them, they’re losing their identity, they’re losing their opportunity to share…I hope that Hot Springs will be able to continue providing the care they have in the past, in an even more enhanced capacity.” Full video of the exchange during the Joint Veterans’ Affairs Committee Hearing is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCdciQqJ5mM&feature=youtu.be
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Rounds Statement on Administration Plans to Close GTMO WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued the following statement on the Obama administration’s plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, commonly known as GTMO. Earlier today, the Pentagon submitted to Congress a plan to close GTMO despite President Obama signing into law last year legislation specifically prohibiting its closure. The plan would cost more than $400 million and relocate nearly 60 detainees to one of 13 locations in the United States. “Transferring detainees to the United States is a direct violation of laws the president himself has signed,” said Rounds. “Law enforcement officials across the nation have spoken against bringing them into their communities. Additionally, detainees may receive legal protections under the Constitution if they are housed in the U.S. I will continue working with my colleagues to prevent the closure of GTMO, just as we have done in previous legislation, which President Obama signed into law.” In March 2015, Rounds visited Guantanamo Bay Naval Base with U.S. Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.). There are around 90 inmates housed at Guantanamo Bay, which has been open since 2002.
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Rounds Joins 33 Senators, 171 Representatives to File Amicus Brief, Urging Circuit Court to Block EPA Attempt to Transform the Nation’s Electricity Sector Amicus Brief Asks the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals to Vacate EPA’s So-Called “Clean Power Plan” WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today joined U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate EPW Committee Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and House Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (R-Ky.), 33 Senators and 171 House Members in filing an amicus brief today in the case of State of West Virginia, et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency, et al. The bipartisan amicus brief is in support of petitions filed by 27 states seeking to overturn the EPA final rule identified as the Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units, EPA-HQ-OAR-2013-0602, 80 Fed. Reg. 64,662 (Oct. 23, 2015), also known as the “Clean Power Plan.” A copy of the brief can be found here. As Senators and Representatives duly elected to serve in the Congress of the United States in which “all legislative Powers” granted by the Constitution are vested, the members state that: The Final Rule goes well beyond the clear statutory directive by, among other things, requiring States to submit, for approval, state or regional energy plans to meet EPA’s predetermined CO2mandates for their electricity sector. In reality, if Congress desired to give EPA sweeping authority to transform the nation’s electricity sector, Congress would have provided for that unprecedented power in detailed legislation. Indeed, when an agency seeks to make “decisions of vast ‘economic and political significance’” under a “long-extant statute,” it must point to a “clear” statement from Congress. Util. Air Regulatory Grp. v. EPA, 134 S. Ct. 2427, 2444 (2014) (quoting FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S. 120, 160, 120 S. Ct. 1291, 1315 (2000)). EPA can point to no statement of congressional authorization for the Final Rule’s central features, precisely because there is none. Nor has Congress authorized EPA to make the policy choices that are reflected in the Final Rule—a rule that imposes enormous costs on States and the public without achieving meaningful climate benefits. Because of the Final Rule, States will face unprecedented new regulatory burdens, electricity ratepayers will be subject to billions of dollars in compliance costs, and American workers and their families will experience the hardship of job losses due to power plant shutdowns, higher electricity prices, and overall diminishment of the nation’s global economic competitiveness. Choices of this nature are inherently Congressional decisions. See W. Minn. Mun. Power Agency v. Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm’n, 806 F.3d 588, 593 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (“Agencies are empowered to make policy only insofar as Congress expressly or impliedly delegates that power.”) (citing Util. Air Regulatory Grp., 134 S. Ct. at 2445 (2014)). Congress has not authorized EPA to make the central policy choices in the Final Rule and, in many respects, has affirmatively rejected those policies, as it certainly did with respect to cap-and-trade programs for CO2 emissions from power plants. Accordingly, the Final Rule that has been properly stayed by the Supreme Court should now be vacated by this Court. Additional Information: Thirty-nine lawsuits seeking review of the Final Rule have been consolidated in the D.C. Circuit. The Final Rule was stayed by the Supreme Court on Feb. 9. The D.C. Circuit is scheduled to hear oral arguments in the consolidated cases on June 2. An amicus brief, or “friend of the court” brief, can be filed in order to address concerns and advise the Court on a matter of law that directly affects the case at hand. Related Files v3-brief-of-amici-curiae-filed-.pdf
02.16.2016	02.16.16 Rounds Looking for South Dakotans to Join Him in Hosting Community Conversations Across the State WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R- S.D.) today announced his Community Conversations program in which he will travel the state visiting with various communities. Community Conversations will allow Rounds to hear firsthand from local leaders, constituents and business owners to better understand their local interests and concerns. “Strong, prosperous communities are the backbone of South Dakota,” said Rounds. “But in order for them to continue to thrive and grow, we must make certain federal policies are working at the local level. Community Conversations will allow me to visit with you firsthand so you can share your views and opinions as I work to make the best decisions possible for our state.” Mayors, community members and/or local leaders interested in hosting Sen. Rounds in their community should fill out an online application on Rounds’ website, www.rounds.senate.gov/communityconversations. There is no deadline to apply; applications will be accepted on a rolling basis.
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Rounds Applauds Senate Passage of Legislation to Enhance Sanctions Against North Korea WASHINGTON— U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today voted to pass the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act of 2016. This legislation imposes new sanctions against North Korean officials involved in its nuclear program and proliferation activities. It also improves enforcement of multilateral sanctions, provides an overall strategy to combat North Korean cyber activities and addresses North Korea’s history of human rights violations. “In light of last weekend’s satellite launch and last month’s alleged hydrogen bomb test, it is clear that North Korea is moving forward with its nuclear program—a blatant defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions,” said Rounds. “As North Korea grows more aggressive, it is important the Senate take action to protect our national security interests by imposing stronger, more enforceable sanctions against the regime. These acts of aggression cannot be ignored.” Rounds is a cosponsor of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act in the Senate, which would: explicitly state that it is the policy of the United States to pursue sanctions against the North Korean government in order to peacefully disarm the North Korean regime; require the administration to submit a strategy to counter North Korean cyber-related attacks and impose sanctions on cyber criminals; Codify two executive orders released in 2015 authorizing sanctions against entities undermining U.S. and national economic security in cyberspace; and Require a report by the State Department identifying human rights abusers in North Korea and a report on their political prison camps. This bill now heads to the president’s desk to be signed into law.
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Rounds Stands Up For South Dakota Businesses on Senate Floor Opposes Customs Conference Report due to Inclusion of the Internet Tax Freedom Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today spoke on the Senate floor in opposition to the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act, commonly called the Customs Conference Report, because it includes Internet Tax Freedom Act (ITFA) language without the Marketplace Fairness Act (MFA) attached. ITFA would put in place a moratorium to permanently prevent state and local entities from imposing existing sales and use taxes on internet services. Because ITFA takes away important revenue for state and local governments in South Dakota, Rounds only supports it if it is paired with MFA, which would allow states to recoup their losses by allowing states and local governments to collect sales and use taxes from online retailers. The fear is that passing ITFA without MFA attached to it leaves the MFA without strong enough support to pass the House of Representatives, reducing the chance of successfully implementing it. “Conventional wisdom – in this body and elsewhere – has always been that ITFA, which would stop the taxing the cost of internet services, would be paired with MFA because MFA lets state and local governments recover the losses from ITFA,” said Rounds. “MFA would make certain that main street businesses aren’t at a competitive disadvantage to companies who have no physical presence, employees or investment in states like South Dakota. Brick and mortar stores are the businesses that provide good-paying jobs to South Dakotans, pay local property taxes, sponsor community baseball leagues, send their kids and grandkids to South Dakota schools and invest in the future of our state. We have an opportunity to level the playing field for them – rather than picking winners and losers – so they can continue to be successful and enrich the lives of South Dakotans.” “If the President signs the Customs Conference Report into law – in its current form with ITFA attached to it – municipalities in my home state of South Dakota will lose $4.3 million dollars of revenue annually. That is revenue they rely upon to fund essential services such as training for firefighters and police officers, maintenance for parks, upkeep of community centers and libraries, and repairs to critical roads and bridges. Without any way of recouping that loss – local leaders will be forced to make the tough decision: to cut those important services communities depend upon, or raise other taxes.” Link to Video of Rounds' Remarks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBEWETAoCJ0&feature=youtu.be Rounds’ remarks, as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to voice my opposition to an upcoming cloture vote on the Conference Report to the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act, commonly known as the Customs Conference Report. This vote is expected tomorrow. While I am supportive of the conference report as it relates to customs legislation, added to the bill at the last minute is a measure known as the Internet Tax Freedom Act, or ITFA, for short. ITFA would put in place a moratorium to permanently prevent state and local entities from imposing existing sales and use taxes on internet services. In the past, I’ve expressed my support for ITFA as long as it was tied to the Marketplace Fairness Act, or MFA, which would allow state and local governments to collect sales and use taxes from online retailers with no physical presence in their state. In South Dakota, this is a matter of fairness to the families who own small businesses and support our local communities. Pairing these plans would have been a net benefit for states, local governments and small business owners that are already required to collect sales and use taxes on their products and services. Together, they would represent sound tax policy. But that’s not what we’re doing here with the Customs Conference Report by including ITFA and not including MFA. ITFA, enacted by itself, would put in place a moratorium to permanently prevent state and local entities from imposing taxes on internet services at the state and local level – with no consideration or offset for the tax revenue lost by states and local governments. I am all for cutting taxes, but I’m also a strong proponent of the 10th Amendment, local control and tax fairness for South Dakota businesses. In places like South Dakota, we’re actually good at balancing budgets. Washington has no business telling states or city commissioners how to run their books. ITFA has zero impact on the federal budget. ITFA pared with MFA continues to make sense. One without the other – does not. My opposition is not based on disagreement over internet access. My opposition is based on the principle that we are taking away important revenue sources for state and local governments without any means for them to recoup their losses so they can continue to provide essential services to our communities. Let me explain why sound and comprehensive tax policy is so important – why ITFA and MFA should continue to be a package deal: If the President signs the Customs Conference Report into law – in its current form with ITFA attached to it – municipalities in my home state of South Dakota will lose $4.3 million dollars of revenue annually. That is revenue they rely upon to fund essential services such as training for firefighters and police officers, maintenance for parks, upkeep of community centers and libraries, and repairs to critical roads and bridges. Without any way of recouping that loss – local leaders will be forced to make the tough decision: to cut those important services communities depend upon, or raise other taxes. Why is Washington making this decision? In addition to municipalities losing out on important funds, the state of South Dakota would also lose out: to the tune of $9.3 million dollars annually. Now that may not seem like a lot in Washington, where the federal government recklessly spends taxpayer dollars and routinely fails to balance its budget. But back home in South Dakota, we don’t have the luxury of punting – we are required to balance our books each year. At the state and local level, every single dollar counts. Singled out – it’s not right for the federal government to dictate state and local budgets – as the ITFA part of this Customs Conference Report attempts to do. It is unfair to states like ours, which operate under tight budgets and stretch every dollar to the maximum. In fact, in South Dakota, we aren’t overtaxing – our state tax burden is the second lowest in the nation. That is why conventional wisdom – in this body and elsewhere – has always been that ITFA – which would stop the taxing the cost of internet services – would be paired with MFA because MFA lets state and local governments recover the losses from ITFA. And MFA would make certain that main street businesses aren’t at a competitive disadvantage to companies who have no physical presence, employees or investment in states like South Dakota. Right now, main street businesses are operating under a disadvantage. MFA would level the playing field. These brick and mortar stores are the businesses that provide good-paying jobs to South Dakotans, pay local property taxes, sponsor community baseball leagues, send their kids and grandkids to South Dakota schools and invest in the future of our state. We have an opportunity to level the playing field for them – rather than picking winners and losers - so they can continue to be successful and enrich the lives of South Dakotans. Let’s let the states and local governments decide how to manage their finances. Under MFA, South Dakota would bring in approximately $25 million in new tax revenue, which would more than make up for the losses under ITFA. If we pass ITFA without MFA, it dramatically decreases the chance of MFA being passed in the years to come; a huge blow to the mom-and-pop businesses who are struggling to compete with online vendors. MFA passing the Senate without ITFA is likely dead on arrival in the House. ITFA would see a similar fate if not dumped into the Customs Conference Report. It would not pass the Senate alone. There is simply no evidence to suggest that either measure would pass as standalone legislation. But together – sound tax policy would move. That is why it is so important that ITFA not be implemented without also implementing MFA. Together, the two can make a real impact on the lives of South Dakotans - and all Americans - by providing permanent tax relief to South Dakota families, leveling the playing field for brick-and-mortar businesses who are contending with an increasingly competitive online marketplace and – at the same time – assure state and local governments can continue to provide essential services to their constituents while balancing their budgets. Because the Customs Conference Report includes only ITFA and fails to address MFA, I will oppose cloture on this legislation and encourage my colleagues to join me. Thank you Mr. President, I yield the floor. How much does your community lose under ITFA? Find out here.
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Rounds Seeks Solutions for Greater State and Local Input for Wildlife Management Decisions Cites South Dakota- Specific Example of Federal Government Failing to Adequately Consider Local Perspective When Making Decisions WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today during a Fisheries, Water and Wildlife Subcommittee hearing questioned representatives of state fish and wildlife agencies on ways the federal government can do a better job partnering with state and local entities when making wildlife management decisions. Rounds specifically cited the overpopulation of elk in Wind Cave National Park and the inability of the federal government to work with South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks to find a solution to this ongoing problem. “The debate over how to manage the elk population has now spanned several years in this particular case with no solution to the overpopulation of elk,” said Rounds during his questioning. “State officials know best how to manage wildlife in our state and they should be the chief decision makers when deciding how best to conserve our wildlife.” Video of Rounds' Remarks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_QRFlVbL7ZA
02.08.2016	02.08.16 Rounds Introduces Bill to Help Speed Defense Department Hiring of Cyber Security Professionals WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) introduced S. 2482, the Cyber Command Employment Personnel Training Act of 2016. This bill will improve the Department of Defense’s hiring practices for cyber security professionals by making certain specified categories of personnel are trained on new rules for hiring and pay flexibilities for civilian cyber security employees. These rules permit faster hiring and higher pay for these employees than is normally the case for the U.S. civil service. “Cyber-attacks are among the fastest-growing and increasingly damaging threats to our national security,” said Rounds. “Improving the training practices for hiring officials at the Department of Defense - who play a vital role in the hiring of civilian cyber security professionals - can help assure the U.S. military is working with the best talent possible. In turn, our military will be better equipped to deal with a cyber-attack on our nation. Additionally, it will enhance the Department of Defense’s ability to hire young, qualified cyber security professionals from schools such as Dakota State University in Madison, which is a national leader in cyber security.” “The need for cybersecurity professionals continues to dramatically increase,” said Dakota State University President José-Marie Griffiths, Ph.D. “At Dakota State University, as one of the first leaders in higher education in this field, we continue to respond to the needs of both the public and private sectors. We take very seriously our role in educating cybersecurity professionals for the U.S. Department of Defense, and welcome any opportunity to help fully staff U.S. Cyber Command. Dakota State University supports this legislation that will help educate and train Department of Defense personnel to provide a more flexible and agile hiring process for cybersecurity candidates.” Rounds’ bill would require training for department-level human resources staff that manage the civilian workforce, staff that write implementing guidance for hiring and pay flexibilities and supervisors and hiring managers that use, or would use, the flexibilities.
02.03.2016	02.03.16 Rounds Issues Statement from Hearing on Native American Health Care in the Great Plains Video and Transcript Available WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued a statement in today’s Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing, entitled “Reexamining the Substandard Quality of Indian Health Care in the Great Plains.” Rounds asked to participate in today’s hearing after leading a number of his colleagues in a letter requesting the hearing in light of recent issues at Indian Health Service (IHS) hospitals in the Great Plains Region, including Rosebud and Pine Ridge. Video of Rounds’ statement at Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yswu4CjV1DQ&feature=youtu.be Full text of Rounds’ statement as prepared for delivery: Thank you, Chairman Barrasso, and distinguished members of the committee, for allowing me to speak today. Nearly 122,000 tribal members rely on the Great Plains Area Office to deliver safe, reliable and efficient health care. For rural tribal members, their IHS facility may be the only hospital for more than one hundred miles. This is the case for many tribal members in my home state of South Dakota. For too long, the federal government has failed to live up to its promise, its trust responsibility, to provide adequate care for the Native American community. That is the reason I am here today. In 2010, this committee released a report citing chronic mismanagement, lack of employee accountability and financial integrity at IHS facilities. The report also identified five IHS hospitals in the Aberdeen area at risk of losing their accreditation or certification from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Fast forward six years, and we find that the Winnebago, Rosebud and Pine Ridge hospitals are all threatened with similar problems. It feels as if nothing has changed. The healthcare crisis within Indian Health Service needs to be resolved. There is no excuse for hospitals to not reach basic benchmarks for providing proper care. Reports and hearings can be very good if we also help to facilitate a plan of action to remedy the current situation, and then insist on proper execution of the plan and follow up to get results. Thank you.
02.02.2016	02.02.16 Rounds Participates in Veterans Suicide Prevention Forum WASHINGTON— U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today participated in a forum with VA Secretary Robert McDonald entitled, “Preventing Veteran Suicide: A Call to Action.” “As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee and a Senator from a state that has more than 72,000 veterans who have honorably served this country, I take great interest in getting our veterans quality, timely and efficient care,” said Rounds during his remarks. “While the most recent available numbers on veterans suicide have shown improvement in recent years, even one veteran taking his or her life due to the mental and physical stresses caused by service to this nation is one too many. We cannot - and will not - stop working to address the issue of veteran suicide until every veteran is adequately cared for.” ###
02.02.2016	02.02.16 Senate Passes Rounds’ Easement Disclosure Amendment to Energy Bill WASHINGTON--U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today applauded the passage of his easement disclosure amendment to the bipartisan Energy Policy Modernization Act. The amendment would establish a federal education program to make certain landowners are given all of the federal conservation options available to them when choosing to put their land into a conservation easement. Earlier this month, Rounds offered a similar easement disclosure amendment that was included in the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act passed by the Senate EPW Committee. “When entering into a conservation easement with the federal government, South Dakota’s farmers, ranchers and landowners should be made aware of all options available to them,” said Rounds. “My amendment would make certain they are fully aware that perpetual conservation easements – which bind future generations into a contract with the federal government – aren’t their only option. It increases awareness for shorter, termed easements, which, I believe would result in more public access to land and greater optionality for landowners. Additionally, it keeps landowners and the federal government on equal footing.” Rounds’ amendment contains language to establish a federal education program through the U.S. Department of the Interior to allow landowners to learn all of the federal conservation options available to them when choosing to set their land aside in an easement. The agency would be required to make landowners aware of this education program when approaching them about participating in a conservation program. The bipartisan Energy Policy Modernization Act is currently being debated in the Senate. It focuses on creating more affordable energy, more abundant energy and more functional energy systems throughout the United States. It was referred out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources by a vote of 18-4.
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Rounds Joins Bipartisan Effort to Reinstate Inurnment Rights to Women Airforce Service Pilots at Arlington National Cemetery WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today cosponsored S. 2437, the Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act of 2016, bipartisan legislation to authorize inurnment of Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) at Arlington National Cemetery (ANC). Current law prevents WASPs, who flew domestic missions during World War II, from being inurned there. A 2002 Army policy erroneously authorized them this right, only to be revoked when the Army realized the authorization was in violation of law. This occurred after two of the WASPs had been inurned at ANC and others hoped to have the same benefit. South Dakota is home to one WASP member, Ola Mildred Rexroat, age 98. Ms. Rexroat was the only Native American to serve as a WASP, and she is a member of the Oglala Sioux Tribe on the Pine Ridge Reservation. Ola is a 2007 inductee into the South Dakota Aviation Hall of Fame. “It is disappointing that these women who so ably served our nation in wartime are barred from being inurned at Arlington National Cemetery.” said Rounds. “These women bravely served their country throughout World War II, flying planes and putting their lives at risk for the United States. They are deserving of the honor and privilege of being laid to rest at Arlington National Cemetery if they so choose.” Between 1942 and 1944, over 1,000 WASPs flew non-combat domestic military missions to allow more male pilots to be deployed to combat zones. They piloted every kind of military aircraft and logged 60 million miles flying missions across the United States. Yet they were never considered members of the armed forces. In 1977, WASPs were granted veterans’ status. S. 2437 was introduced by Sens. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) and Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), and companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) and Susan Davis (D-Calif.).
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Rounds Supports New North Korean Sanctions WASHINGTON— U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) cosponsored legislation to impose new sanctions against North Korean officials involved in nuclear program and proliferation activities, as well as human rights abuses. “While much of our attention has been on conflicts in the Middle East, we must not forget the military aggression from North Korea, as well as their human rights violations,” said Rounds. “The North Korean regime continues to threaten the U.S. and our allies with violence, weapons of mass destruction and cyberattacks. Such actions must not be tolerated. Increasing sanctions will apply pressure on the North Korean regime.” The North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act would: Explicitly state that it is the policy of the United States to pursue sanctions against the North Korean government in order to peacefully disarm the North Korean regime; Require the administration to submit a strategy to counter North Korean cyber-related attacks and impose sanctions on cyber criminals; Codify two executive orders released in 2015 authorizing sanctions against entities undermining U.S. and national economic security in cyberspace; and Require a report by the State Department identifying human rights abusers in North Korea and a report on their political prison camps.
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Rounds: Senate Democrats Putting Politics Ahead of National Security WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today voted in favor of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. The SAFE Act would have enhanced the procedures for vetting refugees coming to the United States from Syria and Iraq. While this legislation received overwhelming support when it passed the House last November, it failed to receive enough Democrat support to be brought up for debate in the Senate. “The United States has a long tradition of welcoming refugees into our country,” said Rounds. “However, my top concern remains keeping South Dakotans and all Americans safe here at home. ISIS members have already shown they are willing to infiltrate countries posing as refugees. Additionally, top U.S. intelligence officials have expressed concern that we don’t have all the information needed to properly vet Syrian refugees to make sure they don’t have ties to terrorism. Until officials are able to process the large number of refugees expected with a high degree of confidence, we should not be allowing this group of refugees in to our country.” The SAFE Act would have suspended the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until the nation’s top security officials can declare each refugee does not pose a threat to the United States. It would have placed a moratorium on the admission of these refugees until the following conditions are met: The FBI director certifies the background investigation of each refugee The secretary of Homeland Security, along with the FBI director and the director of National Intelligence, certifies to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the U.S. It would also have created an additional layer of protection by requiring the Department of Homeland Security inspector general to independently assess the refugee approvals, making sure that high-risk individuals do not slip through the cracks. This legislation would have put in place the most robust national-security vetting process in history for any refugee population.
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Rounds’ Easement Disclosure Provision Included in Sportsmen’s Package WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today thanked his colleagues for their support after his amendment regarding easements was included in S. 659, the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act. Rounds’ amendment would require documentation that landowners have been fully informed of all of their conservation options—both termed and perpetual—when choosing to place their land in conservation easements. S. 659 passed out of the Senate EPW Committee this morning with Rounds’ support. It now heads to the full Senate for consideration. “When entering into a conservation easement with the government, South Dakota’s farmers, ranchers and landowners should be made aware of all options available to them,” said Rounds. “Greater optionality for landowners will benefit everyone, and I believe it will result in greater public access to land. Giving landowners the option of entering into a termed, renewable contract for conservation easements will keep the landowners and federal government on equal footing.” Rounds’ amendment includes language making sure there is documentation showing landowners were made aware they have the option of setting their land aside in an easement for a limited period of time. It will make sure landowners are aware of all their options and are not forced into making a decision that will lock their land into a permanent easement, preventing future generations from accessing it.
01.19.2016	01.19.16 Rounds Accepting Summer Internship Applications WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that he is currently accepting internship applications for summer 2016. The deadline to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices is February 15, 2016. Summer internships will run from June to mid-August. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than February 15, 2016. Resumes should be submitted to Erin Budmayr, intern coordinator at erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450.
01.15.2016	01.15.16 Rounds Joins Colleagues in Letter Urging Secretary of State Not to Placate Iran PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, this week joined his colleagues in a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry regarding his recent assurances to Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif that new Visa Waiver Program (VWP) restrictions would not impact Iranian interests. The letter is critical of Secretary Kerry’s attempt to reassure Iran and highlights the fact that U.S. law is not the problem, Iran’s continued support for terrorism is. The Senators ask Secretary Kerry to make this clear in future interactions with his counterpart, as well as the fact that these reforms were drafted to address U.S. national security interests, not Iranian interests. “Iran-sponsored terrorists and militants are responsible for the death of more than 700 Americans,” the Senators wrote. “As you continue to engage with Mr. Zarif, we urge—rather than seeking to placate the complaints of Iran, the world’s biggest state sponsor of terrorism—you to press him and his government to cease its support for terrorism and provide tangible evidence that it is doing so. We also ask you to clarify to Mr. Zarif and his colleagues that these reforms to the VWP were not drafted with Iranian interests in mind, but U.S. national security interests.” The letter, led by Sen. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), was also signed by Sens. with Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Shelly Moore Capito (R-W.V.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). Signed into law last month, the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus included reforms to the Visa Waiver Program that would prohibit an individual from traveling to the U.S. under the VWP if, since March 2011, they have visited Iraq or any country designated as a state sponsor of terrorism, or if they hold dual citizenship with those countries. These prospective travelers are now required to go through the standard visa application process. Iran is a designated state sponsor of terrorism, and these new restrictions apply to individuals who have traveled to Iran or hold dual Iranian citizenship. The provision allows the Secretary of Homeland Security to waive individuals if it is in the law enforcement or national security interests of the United States. Foreign Minister Zarif expressed frustration with these restrictions, and the letter from Secretary Kerry assured him that the new law would not interfere with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and the “legitimate business interests of Iran.” Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Kerry: We are gravely concerned about your recent letter to Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif that sought to allay Iran’s complaints about Visa Waiver Program (VWP) reforms recently signed into law in the United States. As you know, the new reforms would prohibit any national of a VWP country who has traveled to a country designated by the U.S. Government as a State Sponsor of Terrorism since March 2011, or who holds dual-citizenship with designated countries, from traveling under the VWP. Instead, these individuals would be required to obtain a visa. Iran is a U.S.-designated State Sponsor of Terrorism. Mr. Zarif, who described reforms to protect the Visa Waiver Program against terrorist infiltration as “absurd,” also had the temerity to ask: “Has anybody in the West been targeted by any Iranian national, anybody of Iranian origin, or anyone travelling to Iran?” Iran-sponsored terrorists and militants are responsible for the death of more than 700 Americans. During the 1980s, Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorists killed over 290 Americans in Lebanon—including 241 U.S. servicemen in the Beirut Barracks Bombing of October 23, 1983. During the 2000s, Iran-backed attacks killed hundreds of Americans in Iraq and Afghanistan. On July 9, 2015, General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Senators: “I know the total number of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines killed by Iranian activities [in Iraq and Afghanistan], and the number has been recently quoted as about 500.” As you continue to engage with Mr. Zarif, we urge—rather than seeking to placate the complaints of Iran, the world’s biggest state sponsor of terrorism—you to press him and his government to cease its support for terrorism and provide tangible evidence that it is doing so. We also ask you to clarify to Mr. Zarif and his colleagues that these reforms to the VWP were not drafted with Iranian interests in mind, but U.S. national security interests. ###
01.13.2016	01.13.16 Rounds Introduces Spring Semester Interns in D.C. Office WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) introduced three South Dakota college students as spring 2016 interns in his Washington, D.C., office. Jordan Hanson is from Watertown, SD, and is currently majoring in political science at the University of South Dakota in Vermillion. She is active in her sorority, Kappa Alpha Theta, and student government. Josh Jorgensen is from Sioux Falls, SD, and is a senior at the University of South Dakota in Vermillion. He is majoring in media and journalism and political science. Josh is involved in student media at USD as a talk show host, assistant sports editor and frequent columnist at the Volante, USD’s school newspaper. Angela Merkle is from Canton, SD, and recently graduated from Augustana University in Sioux Falls where she studied government and international affairs. While at Augustana, Angela was active in student government. Intern duties include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Interns work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a U.S. Senate office. The spring internship program in Sen. Rounds’ office lasts through May. College students interested in summer and fall 2016 semester internship in the Washington, D.C. office or in one of Sen. Rounds’ state offices can visit www.rounds.senate.gov, call Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450, or email a resume and cover letter to erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. College credit is available.
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Rounds: Tonight’s Speech a Missed Opportunity to Reach Across the Aisle WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) tonight made the following statement on President Obama’s final State of the Union Address. “An overwhelming majority of South Dakotans - and all Americans - are dissatisfied with the direction of our country, and tonight’s speech lacked any serious ideas for working together to renew and reenergize the people’s faith in the American dream. The facts are clear: our economy is stagnant, the VA is broken, Obamacare is failing, manufacturing has shrunk, Americans don’t feel safe from terrorism and damaging new regulations being promulgated by this administration are hurting hard-working families and businesses. I believe we can do a lot more good for our country if we face the challenges before us and make our country better than it is today. Only then can we truly solve the important issues before us.”
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Rounds Statement on VA Inspector General WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today made the following statement after the committee approved the nomination of Michael Missal to be Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA): “The VA hasn’t had a permanent Inspector General for over two years. During that time, the VA has been plagued with scandal and mismanagement, and our veterans have been paying the price,” said Rounds. “They deserve better from their government. It is my hope that a new Inspector General will help regain trust in the VA, and provide accountability for the Department’s policies and management.” The Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee held a prior hearing on Missal’s nomination in November 2015. He now awaits confirmation from the full Senate.
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Rounds Statement on President Obama’s Gun Control Announcement PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s recently announced gun control executive actions: “The executive actions the president announced today will make it more difficult for law-abiding citizens to legally obtain firearms and do nothing to fix the problem of gun violence,” said Rounds. “Criminals and terrorists aren’t going to obey the law anyway. I will continue to fight against the president’s endless attack on our 2nd amendment rights.”
12.18.2015	12.18.15 Weekly Column: Counting our Blessings this Christmas The Christmas season is a special time that allows us to reflect upon the blessings in our lives and spend quality time with our loved ones. Jean and I are blessed to call South Dakota home, and we are especially grateful for our continued health and the health of our family. This year, we welcomed two new grandchildren – eight in all! We look forward to spending additional time with them and the rest of our family in the coming weeks. It is well-known that the Rounds extended family is quite large. This year, just like years past, we expect at least 80 family members at our house on Christmas Eve. After attending 5 o’clock church service, we all gather to enjoy a meal of homemade chicken noodle soup and open presents. Grandpa Don reads the young ones the story of Christmas, reminding us all of the birth of our Lord – the greatest gift of all. Despite the many challenges facing our nation today, all of us have many gifts to be grateful for. We are all fortunate to call ourselves Americans and South Dakotans, living in the greatest country in the world where we are free to celebrate Christmas without fear of persecution. Our God-given freedoms as written in the Constitution must never be taken for granted. We are also thankful for the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America and their families who make incredible sacrifices to protect and defend our freedoms. They are the reason we are able to celebrate this season safely here at home with our loved ones. During these uncertain times, they should be enormously proud of their contributions to our national defense and security. This season, more than 160 South Dakotans are currently deployed. The South Dakota National Guard’s 155th Engineer Company is stationed in Kuwait, and several other South Dakota soldiers are also stationed away from home. We would like to express our gratitude to the men and women who are deployed and their loved ones who are unable to spend the holiday together. The holiday season can be particularly tough for them. May they continue to find the strength to persevere, knowing they will soon be reconnected. I also want to take this time to express my gratitude for all South Dakotans who took time to write, call or meet with me as I traveled across the state this year. Your views and opinions are important to me as I work to make the best decisions for South Dakota. It is truly an honor to represent you in the United States Senate. While there are tough challenges ahead, I believe we are strong enough to tackle them head on. I look forward to working with my colleagues in 2016 to address them. Jean and I hope you and your family have a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Thanks for all you do to make South Dakota great.
12.09.2015	12.09.15 Rounds: Education Reform Bill a Victory for South Dakota’s 150,000 Students Every Student Succeeds Act Restores Local Control of Education WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the final Conference Report for the Every Student Succeeds Act. This bipartisan legislation replaces the widely criticized No Child Left Behind Act and shifts authority for academic standards back to the states and local school districts. It now heads to President Obama’s desk to be signed into law. “I’ve always believed in local control of schools,” said Rounds. “The Every Student Succeeds Act takes education decisions out of the hands of Washington bureaucrats and puts it back in the hands of parents, teachers and local school boards, which is exactly where it belongs. Educators in our state will have greater flexibility to develop their own curriculum that best fits the needs of South Dakota’s youth. “Overhaul of our education system has been long overdue. The shortcomings of No Child Left Behind – which expired seven years ago and has been reauthorized for short-term, temporary, unworkable fixes only – were evident while I was working as governor. I commend my colleagues on the Senate HELP Committee, and Republican leaders in both chambers of Congress for working across the aisle to finally accomplish meaningful reforms to our education system that restore local control of education.” Additionally, the bill provides certainty for South Dakota’s 39 federally impacted schools and authorizes grants to improve Indian academic achievement. ###
12.08.2015	12.08.15 South Dakota Delegation Urges Air Force to Base New Air Force Fighter in Sioux Falls WASHINGTON — South Dakota Governor Dennis Daugaard, U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) and South Dakota Adjutant General Maj. Gen. Timothy Reisch today wrote to Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James urging the Air Force to base the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Joe Foss Field in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Next year, the Air Force is expected to announce its basing decisions for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, to include two Air National Guard bases. “The South Dakota Air National Guard has been one of our nation’s premier fighter units since General Joe Foss founded the squadron nearly 70 years ago,” the delegation wrote. “The 114th Fighter Wing has demonstrated outstanding mission readiness and a superior record of excellence, making South Dakota an ideal location as the next beddown site of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.” There are currently more than 25 National Guard fighter bases in the U.S. After the first two basing decisions in 2016, Air National Guard units in additional states will also receive the F-35. Full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force HQ USAF/CC 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20330-1670 Dear Madam Secretary, We write today regarding the potential basing of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Joe Foss Field in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The South Dakota Air National Guard has been one of our nation’s premier fighter units since General Joe Foss founded the squadron nearly 70 years ago. The 114th Fighter Wing has demonstrated outstanding mission readiness and a superior record of excellence, making South Dakota an ideal location as the next beddown site of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. The 114th Fighter Wing has been nationally recognized for its accomplishments in flying and combat readiness. Last year it was recognized with the Spaatz Trophy – denoting the 114th Fighter Wing as the highest rated Air National Guard flying unit – and this year the Wing was awarded the NGAUS Distinguished Flying Unit plaque and the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award. Its exceptional safety record, critical for conversion to a new weapons system, was validated this year as well, with the Major General John J. Pesch Safety Trophy in addition to a fifth consecutive Governor’s Safety Award of Honor. The 114th Fighter Wing has exceptional, uncongested airspace providing supersonic and low altitude operations able to meet the unique requirements of the F-35 aircraft. Additionally, Joe Foss Field has two runways greater than 8,000 feet with cables, maintenance facilities and ramps to support any size squadron, and a state-of-the-art operations complex. Airmen of the 114th Fighter Wing are highly experienced and trained: 88% of the pilots are “experienced” averaging over 2,100 flying hours and 62% of maintenance personnel hold a 7-level AFSC. The South Dakota Air National Guard enjoys the unwavering support of the Sioux Falls community and South Dakota citizens. The 114th Fighter Wing has established a standard of excellence among Air National Guard units clearly making Joe Foss Field an ideal location for beddown of F-35 Joint Strike Fighters. Please feel free to contact us at any time if we can be of further assistance. Sincerely, # # #
12.08.2015	12.08.15 South Dakota Senators Insist President Pursue Additional Military Options in ISIS Fight WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.), along with eight of their Senate colleagues, today sent a letter to President Obama insisting that he pursue additional military options to degrade and destroy ISIS abroad and protect the nation from further attacks against American citizens: “The American people are understandably concerned in the aftermath of the horrific attack in San Bernardino and increasingly apprehensive about the prospect of another terrorist attack on American soil,” the Senators wrote. “To safeguard our own national security, we must step up the military fight against ISIS as soon as possible, but it will require sustained, long-term American engagement to resolve the deeper problems that have allowed ISIS to incubate and gather strength in Syria and Iraq.” In addition to Rounds and Thune, the letter, led by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), was also signed by Senators Cory Gardner (R-Co.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and David Vitter (R-La). Full text of the letter: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: In the wake of the recent wave of devastating terrorist attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) on Paris, Beirut, and the Russian airliner flying over Egypt, as well as last week’s attack in San Bernardino that appears to have been inspired by ISIS, we write today to both express support for your stated objective to “degrade and ultimately destroy” ISIS and to urge you to employ more effective means to accomplish that worthy goal. ISIS poses a direct threat to our country, and the magnitude of that threat is growing as a result of this terrorist army’s expanded operational reach. The recent attacks prove that ISIS now has the ability to carry out mass-casualty terrorist attacks well beyond its self-proclaimed “caliphate” in Syria and Iraq. The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency recently warned that ISIS likely has additional attacks planned, and the group has publicly declared its intention to strike the mainland United States. We also know that ISIS is aggressively pursuing a more robust chemical weapons capability and, to that end, has recruited scientists and other technical experts. The American people are understandably concerned in the aftermath of the horrific attack in San Bernardino and increasingly apprehensive about the prospect of another terrorist attack on American soil. Over the past couple of years, as ISIS has murdered and raped its way across the Syrian and Iraqi countryside, it has also succeeded in reenergizing the global jihadi movement, driven by its evil ideology and fueled by its hateful propaganda. The King of Jordan has described the struggle against ISIS in stark terms, calling it a “third world war against humanity.” Likewise, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter testified recently that “We’re at war” against ISIS. The group’s ranks in Syria and Iraq have swelled to as many as 30,000 jihadists, due in part to its leveraging of social media platforms and dark corners of the Internet to recruit from all over the world. Even more alarming is the threat that ISIS and its adherents now pose to us here at home, in the form of a jihadist already living on U.S. soil and planning the next deadly attack. As a nation, we have a clear and vital interest at stake in Syria and Iraq – preventing terrorist attacks against America and our allies – and that obligates us to intensify the effort to destroy ISIS. That vital interest can only be safeguarded through the elimination of the sanctuary that ISIS has carved out for itself in Iraq and Syria. We believe we are at a strategic inflection point in the fight against ISIS and that, without a well-informed strategy change to arrest this group’s momentum, the task of defeating it will multiply in its difficulty and complexity. We listened carefully to your Oval Office address on Sunday but were disappointed to learn that the same ineffective approach will continue to be implemented. In September, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, characterized the fight against ISIS as “tactically stalemated,” an assessment that we believe still holds true. To break this stalemate, we ask you to formulate a comprehensive military strategy against ISIS and bring to bear additional military means. In the near term, our principal strategic goal must be to shatter the ISIS narrative of invincibility, in order to stem this group’s ability to recruit or inspire additional jihadists, both those who would physically travel to Syria or Iraq to join ISIS and those who would remain outside its sanctuary and conduct attacks on their home nations or neighboring ones, including the United States. In order to effectively undermine the ISIS narrative, the coalition must inflict upon it highly visible territorial losses, starting with Iraq, including the recapture of Ramadi, Fallujah, and Mosul. To that end, we recommend that you pursue, at a minimum, several additional military options: U.S. military advisors. To bolster the Iraqi Security Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and Sunni tribal forces, we should embed U.S. military advisors to serve alongside them in combat units down to the battalion level, including those on the front lines. We must work more closely with our local ground partners. Without effective ground forces, ISIS cannot be dislodged from the territory it now holds in Syria and Iraq. Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs). We should deploy and embed additional U.S. troops to serve as JTACs, embedded with our local ground partners, in order to make our airstrikes against ISIS more precise and more lethal. Close air support. We should deploy and utilize additional close air support platforms, including Apache attack helicopters, to provide more effective support to our ground partners who are in close contact with ISIS, in coordination with the embedded JTACs. Airstrike approval process. We should review the current approval process for coalition airstrikes, which we understand is unwieldy, and consider removing barriers that inhibit our pilots from attacking ISIS targets that are both timely and strategically significant. In addition, we ask you to consider two more far-reaching courses of action: Safe zones. We should establish one or more safe zones inside Syria, primarily for the protection of Syrian refugees. Creating and maintaining these so-called no-fly and no-drive zones would be a substantial military and humanitarian undertaking, but in so doing we would help safeguard innocent men, women, and children not just from Bashar al-Assad’s aircraft and barrel bombs, but also from ground attacks by Assad’s forces and ISIS. We would also help avert the mass exodus of Syrian refugees fleeing their own homeland for other countries in the region and in Europe. NATO role. In light of the continuing threat posed to multiple member-nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), we should consider pursuing a robust and central NATO role in combating ISIS, as recently proposed by former NATO Supreme Allied Commander, Admiral (Ret.) James Stavridis. Leading the planning, implementation, and command-and-control of a mission to establish safe zones in Syria may be an appropriate mission for NATO. This list of potential courses of action is not an exhaustive one, but we believe that pursuing even some of these would represent a needed boost in the fight against ISIS. Further, a number of these options or related ones have been proposed by two of your former Secretaries of Defense, Robert Gates and Leon Panetta, and we agree that they are worthy of serious consideration. A more robust U.S. military effort is also likely to attract greater contributions from both NATO allies and, more importantly, regional partners. We recognize that credible military action is necessarily only one element of any sound strategy to defeat ISIS. In addition, we know that the effort to dislodge ISIS from the territory it currently holds must be undergirded by a political framework that will sustain a lasting rejection of ISIS’s bankrupt ideology, which will itself require significant Sunni participation in Iraqi national governance. We also recognize that the threat of ISIS cannot be divorced from the overall conflict in Syria, which continues to rage, fueled further by Russian and Iranian interference. To safeguard our own national security, we must step up the military fight against ISIS as soon as possible, but it will require sustained, long-term American engagement to resolve the deeper problems that have allowed ISIS to incubate and gather strength in Syria and Iraq. Success will not come easily or cheaply, but we urge you as our commander-in-chief to do whatever it takes to defeat ISIS and keep the American citizenry safe from harm. /s/ Related Files letter to POTUS re ISIS and military options.pdf
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Rounds: Long-Term Highway Bill Brings Certainty to Transportation Projects, Restores Crop Insurance Cut South Dakota to Receive $1.6 Billion in Transportation Funding WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the final Conference Report for the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, bipartisan legislation to fund America’s highway and transit programs for five years. The FAST Act allocates approximately $1.6 billion for South Dakota transportation projects over the next five years. It now heads to President Obama’s desk to be signed into law. “A healthy economy is dependent on a strong, safe and vibrant transportation system that allows us to move people and goods with ease,” said Rounds. “Under the FAST Act, South Dakota will receive approximately $1.6 billion in transportation funding to update, repair and modernize important infrastructure in our state. While not perfect, this legislation spares rural America from damaging crop insurance cuts and strengthens lending for community banks, in addition to authorizing important road and infrastructure projects.” “The FAST Act also provides long-term certainty and ends the costly, ineffective practice of short-term highway bill extensions. Over the last 10 years, Congress has passed 36 short-term extensions, frustrating contractors and state and local governments who have been unable to adequately plan for future projects. Finally, they will be able to implement a long-term, strategic plan to restore, repair and update our roads and bridges.” The FAST Act: Authorizes and pays for five years of highway construction. Marks the first time in 10 years a long-term highway bill will be enacted. Prior to now, highway funding had been authorized through 36 temporary, short-term patches. Other important provisions in the FAST Act: Stops Harmful Crop Insurance Cuts: Repeals the misguided crop insurance cut that was included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. Rounds has been working to get rid of the $3 billion cut to the crop insurance program since it was announced it would be included in the Act. Prior to voting on the Act, House and Senate Leaders publicly offered to help restore these cuts, which is why Senator Rounds voted for it. Last week, he wrote to House and Senate leaders reinforcing his commitment to restoring the cut. Ends Regulatory Burden on Mortgage Loans: Incorporates the Helping Expand Lending Practices in Rural Communities Act (HELP Rural Communities Act), co-sponsored by Rounds, which gives individuals in rural areas mistakenly labelled as “not rural” the right to petition the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for the area to be properly reclassified as “rural.” This relieves local community banks and credit unions from burdensome regulations that unfairly limit their ability to lend and allows residents greater access to mortgage loans. ###
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Legislation to Repeal Obamacare Passes Senate WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today praised the Senate’s passage of legislation to repeal significant portions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “We knew the massive, 2500-page law was unworkable when it passed five years ago and that it would crumble under its own weight. And that is exactly what is happening. Health insurance providers are dropping policies and pulling out of the exchange, premiums are skyrocketing for South Dakota families and health care providers are facing uncertainty as they struggle with the law’s burdensome new requirements. Repealing the ill-advised law is a necessary first step so we can implement a market-based, patient-centered plan that is actually affordable.” According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the ACA will cost Americans more than $116 billion a year, including $284 million in new taxes for South Dakotans over the next decade. # # #
11.30.2015	11.30.15 Public Comment Period Extended on VA’s Proposed Reconfiguration of Black Hills Health Care System Extended Until February 5, 2016 WASHINGTON—Members of the South Dakota, Wyoming and Nebraska congressional delegations today made the following statement in support of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) decision to extend the public comment period on the environmental impact statement regarding proposals for reconfiguration of the Black Hills Health Care System (BHHCS) until February 5, 2016. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Mike Enzi (R-Wy.), John Barrasso (R-Wy.), and Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) and U.S. Representatives Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wy.) and Adrian Smith (R-Neb.), sent a letter to VA Secretary Robert McDonald earlier this month requesting the extension. “We are pleased that Secretary McDonald listened to our concerns and extended the public comment period for the VA’s proposed changes to the BHHCS,” said the Members. “Any reconfiguration will impact veterans in the tri-state area who rely on the system for their health care needs. For this reason, it is critical that area veterans and stakeholders have adequate opportunity to voice their opinions regarding the future of its facilities.” On October 28, 2015, the VA released its draft environmental impact statement (EIS) with respect to the BHHCS. The delegations’ letter to Secretary McDonald requesting an extension of the comment period can be found here.
11.24.2015	11.24.15 Rounds Reinforces Commitment to Restoring Crop Insurance Cut in Appropriations Process WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) wrote his colleagues to reinforce his commitment to restoring the $3 billion in crop insurance cuts that were included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, which was signed into law earlier this year. Prior to voting for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, House and Senate Leadership publicly offered to help fix the cuts during the appropriations process. In letters addressed to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Moran (R-Kan.) and Ranking Member Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.) and Ranking Member Sam Farr (D-Calif.), Rounds reinforced the importance of the crop insurance program to South Dakotans and offered his assistance in working to fix the cut in the coming weeks. “In South Dakota, agriculture accounts for more than half of our economic output and is our number one industry,” Rounds wrote the Members. “We are one of the nation’s leading producers of sunflowers, corn, soybeans, forage and wheat. Our farmers and ranchers work tirelessly to help feed and fuel a growing population, often putting in long hours, doing labor-intensive work. In order to continue to serve this growing demand, South Dakota’s producers need certainty from Washington, D.C. This includes the important crop insurance safety net.” In addition, Rounds thanked McConnell: “I am grateful for your offer to help remove this cut during the appropriations process in the coming weeks.” Full text of the letters are below: Dear Majority Leader McConnell: I write today regarding the $3 billion crop insurance cuts included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 that passed the Senate on October 30, 2015, and was signed into law by President Obama. I thank you for your hard work negotiating this important agreement, which in addition to making important policy reforms, avoided a default on our debt and set limits on President Obama’s spending for the remainder of his time in office. But, as you know, I remain deeply concerned about the $3 billion cut to the crop insurance program included in this legislation. I am grateful for your offer to help remove this cut during the appropriations process in the coming weeks. In South Dakota, agriculture accounts for more than half of our economic output and is our number one industry. We are one of the nation’s leading producers of sunflowers, corn, soybeans, forage and wheat. Our farmers and ranchers work tirelessly to help feed and fuel a growing population, often putting in long hours, doing labor-intensive work. In order to continue to serve this growing demand, South Dakota’s producers need certainty from Washington, D.C. This includes the important crop insurance safety net. On behalf of our country’s farmers, crop insurance providers and everyone who lives in rural America, again I thank you for your offer to help fix this provision in appropriations legislation. Please let me know how I can be of assistance while you work to eliminate these harmful cuts before they go into effect. Sincerely, Dear Chairman Roberts: I write today regarding the $3 billion crop insurance cuts included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 that passed the Senate on October 30, 2015, and was signed into law by President Obama. Thank you for your leadership on fighting these damaging cuts. I remain deeply concerned about the $3 billion cut to the crop insurance program included in this legislation. I am grateful for your commitment to removing this cut during the appropriations process in the coming weeks. In South Dakota, agriculture accounts for more than half of our economic output and is our number one industry. We are one of the nation’s leading producers of sunflowers, corn, soybeans, forage and wheat. Our farmers and ranchers work tirelessly to help feed and fuel a growing population, often putting in long hours, doing labor-intensive work. In order to continue to serve this growing demand, South Dakota’s producers need certainty from Washington, D.C. This includes the important crop insurance safety net. On behalf of our country’s farmers, crop insurance providers and everyone who lives in rural America, again I thank you for your work to fix this provision in appropriations legislation. Please let me know how I can be helpful while you work to eliminate these harmful cuts before they go into effect. Sincerely, Dear Chairman Moran and Ranking Member Merkley: I write today regarding the $3 billion crop insurance cuts included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 that passed the Senate on October 30, 2015, and was signed into law by President Obama. I thank you for your hard work on this important agreement, which in addition to making important policy reforms, avoided a default on our debt and set limits on President Obama’s spending for the remainder of his time in office. But, as you know, I remain deeply concerned about the $3 billion cut to the crop insurance program included in this legislation. This cut cannot stand. In South Dakota, agriculture accounts for more than half of our economic output and is our number one industry. We are one of the nation’s leading producers of sunflowers, corn, soybeans, forage and wheat. Our farmers and ranchers work tirelessly to help feed and fuel a growing population, often putting in long hours, doing labor-intensive work. In order to continue to serve this growing demand, South Dakota’s producers need certainty from Washington, D.C. This includes the important crop insurance safety net. On behalf of our country’s farmers, crop insurance providers and everyone who lives in rural America, I commit to working with you and the Senate Appropriations Committee to fix this provision in the appropriations legislation. Please let me know how I can be helpful while you work to eliminate these harmful cuts before they go into effect. Sincerely, Dear Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Farr: I write today regarding the $3 billion crop insurance cuts included in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 that passed the Senate on October 30, 2015, and was signed into law by President Obama. I thank you for your hard work on this important agreement, which in addition to making important policy reforms, avoided a default on our debt and set limits on President Obama’s spending for the remainder of his time in office. But, as you know, I remain deeply concerned about the $3 billion cut to the crop insurance program included in this legislation. This cut cannot stand. In South Dakota, agriculture accounts for more than half of our economic output and is our number one industry. We are one of the nation’s leading producers of sunflowers, corn, soybeans, forage and wheat. Our farmers and ranchers work tirelessly to help feed and fuel a growing population, often putting in long hours, doing labor-intensive work. In order to continue to serve this growing demand, South Dakota’s producers need certainty from Washington, D.C. This includes the important crop insurance safety net. On behalf of our country’s farmers, crop insurance providers and everyone who lives in rural America, I commit to working with you to fix this provision in the appropriations legislation. Please let me know how I can be helpful while you and the House Appropriations Committee work to eliminate these harmful cuts before they go into effect. Sincerely, ###
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Senate Passes Bills to Eliminate Obama’s Costly Energy Regulations WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today voted to stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from moving forward with its proposed “Clean Power Plan” regulations for existing sources and its final rule governing greenhouse gas emissions from new sources. The Senate passed two resolutions of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act, which will stop these rules all together. Rounds is a cosponsor of both resolutions. “From farmers and ranchers to local government officials and the South Dakota families they represent, everyone is sick and tired of the reckless, costly regulations the EPA is attempting to force upon our economy,” said Rounds. “This administration has no regard for the cost of these regulations, which will raise electricity rates for every American in the country. Passing these resolutions is a win for American families who rely on reliable, affordable energy to keep their loved ones safe and our economy running.” The Congressional Review Act allows Congress to overturn actions by a federal agency, such as the EPA, after a rule is formally published and submitted to Congress. If the President signs the resolution of disapproval into law, it would completely nullify the Clean Power Plan, including any portions of the rule that have already gone into effect. Earlier this year South Dakota, along with 25 other states, filed a Petition for Review and a Motion to Stay in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit against the Clean Power Plan. If the President vetoes these resolutions, Congress would have the opportunity to override his veto.
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Rounds Signs Letter to President on Potential ISIS Infiltration of Syrian Refugee Flow “No refugee related to the Syrian crisis [should be] admitted to the United States unless the U.S. government can guarantee, with 100 percent assurance, that they are not members, supporters, or sympathizers of ISIS.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined his colleagues in a letter to President Obama requesting the administration make certain no members, supporters or sympathizers of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) are infiltrating Syrian refugee movements to enter the United States. ISIS claimed responsibility for the synchronized terror attacks in Paris, and French and other European officials said at least one of the attackers used the flow of Syrian refugees to enter the European Union. “While our country has a long history of welcoming refugees and has an important role to play in the heartbreaking Syrian refugee crisis, our first and most important priority must be to ensure that any refugee who comes to the United States does not present a threat to the American people,” the Senators wrote. “We believe that an essential component of that effort is ensuring that no refugee related to the Syrian crisis is admitted to the United States unless the U.S. government can guarantee, with 100 percent assurance, that they are not members, supporters, or sympathizers of the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), also known as Daesh or ISIL.” Earlier this year, Rounds sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson urging them to maintain rigorous security vetting processes of all refugee applicants to make sure terrorist organizations like ISIS do not attempt to infiltrate the United States as refugees. The letter, led by Sens. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) and Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), was signed by Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Daniel Coats (R-Ind.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.V.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.V.). Full text of the letter: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We stand in solidarity with the people of France and against the terrorists who carried out the horrific attacks of November 13th that clearly were designed deliberately to kill as many innocent people as possible. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. As we mourn the loss of life and provide France all the support and assistance it needs, the U.S. government must redouble its efforts to keep the American people safe. We believe that an essential component of that effort is ensuring that no refugee related to the Syrian crisis is admitted to the United States unless the U.S. government can guarantee, with 100 percent assurance, that they are not members, supporters, or sympathizers of the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), also known as Daesh or ISIL. It is already clear that ISIS is responsible for the barbaric attacks. Reports indicate that at least one of the attackers apparently utilized the flow of refugees to infiltrate into Europe. These facts require a serious and objective reexamination of the Administration’s policy toward Syrian refugees to avoid unnecessary risks. While our country has a long history of welcoming refugees and has an important role to play in the heartbreaking Syrian refugee crisis, our first and most important priority must be to ensure that any refugee who comes to the United States does not present a threat to the American people. Compassion for Syrian refugees is important, but a fierce determination to protect the American people is also important. The fact that ISIS may have utilized the flow of refugees to infiltrate Europe and potentially the United States is not a surprise. In September, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), James Clapper, publicly warned the U.S. intelligence community has a “huge concern” that ISIS may seek to infiltrate Syrian refugees who are flowing into Europe and potentially the United States. “As they [refugees] descend on Europe, one of the obvious issues that we worry about, and in turn as we bring refugees into this country, is exactly what’s their background?” DNI Clapper added: “We don’t obviously put it past the likes of ISIL to infiltrate operatives among these refugees. On October 21, 2015, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey told the House Committee on Homeland Security that the U.S. government may not have the ability to vet thoroughly all Syrian refugees coming into the United States. He explained that if a Syrian person is not already in the FBI’s database, that person is unknown to the agency, leaving an inadequate basis for the person’s background to be screened for terrorism risk. “We can only query against that which we have collected,” Director Comey cautioned. He also said, “So if someone has never made a ripple in the pond in Syria in a way that would get their identity or their interest reflected in our database, we can query our database until the cows come home but we are not going to—there will be nothing … because we have no record on that person.” Given DNI Clapper’s stated concern that ISIS may try to infiltrate Syrian refugee movements as well as FBI Director Comey’s public acknowledgment of the U.S. government’s limitations in thoroughly vetting all Syrian refugees, we respectfully request your Administration: List comprehensively the challenges, prior to the November 13th terrorist attacks, in the process for checking the background of Syrian refugees and checking potential risks to national security, including potential terrorism risks; Detail what special or enhanced measures will be added to the screening process for Syrian refugees in the aftermath of the November 13th terrorist attacks; and Describe how it plans to address the vetting challenges that Director Comey describes. We ask that your Administration immediately share this information with the American people. We look forward to a timely response. We cannot imagine a more urgent or higher priority. Sincerely, ###
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Senators Press White House for Increased Transparency on Guantanamo Detainees WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds, along with Sens. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), James Inhofe (R-OK), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), are urging President Obama to adhere to his own promise of increasing transparency, a commitment on which the administration has fallen short when it comes to detainees at Guantanamo and their transfer to other countries. “When a detainee is transferred, the only specific information released by the Department of Defense is the detainee’s name and the name of the country to which the detainee will be transferred,” wrote the Senators. “The administration does not provide any information regarding the detainee’s previous terrorist activities and associations, previous assessments of the detainee’s risk level to the U.S. and our allies, or behavior while in detention. The administration does not provide even the most basic information regarding arrangements with the country that has agreed to receive the detainee.” “As a result, Americans are left in the dark regarding the detainee’s potential membership in al Qaeda or its affiliates, terrorist training, or previous hostile actions against U.S. troops. The American people, and often many of their representatives in Congress, do not even know if the detainee will be detained or released once they are transferred. Without this information, it is difficult for Americans to accurately assess the wisdom of transferring these detainees,” the Senators continued. “With 30% of former Guantanamo detainees confirmed or suspected of reengaging in terrorist activity, this lack of transparency with the American people is not acceptable.” Earlier this year, Rounds visited the Guantanamo Bay detention facility, saying after his return, “I have no doubt this is the right place to detain them - now and in the future.” The full text of the letter: November 12, 2015 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 President Obama: We write to express our continued concern regarding the administration’s lack of transparency with the American public regarding law of war detainees at Guantanamo and those who are being transferred or released to other nations. In a speech delivered in May 2009, you said “I ran for President promising transparency, and I meant what I said. And that's why, whenever possible, my administration will make all information available to the American people so that they can make informed judgments and hold us accountable.” We strongly support efforts to increase the federal government’s transparency with the American people, but the administration’s actions with respect to Guantanamo detainee transfers have not been consistent with your commitment. When a detainee is transferred, the only specific information released by the Department of Defense is the detainee’s name and the name of the country to which the detainee will be transferred. The administration does not provide any information regarding the detainee’s previous terrorist activities and associations, previous assessments of the detainee’s risk level to the U.S. and our allies, or behavior while in detention. The administration does not provide even the most basic information regarding arrangements with the country that has agreed to receive the detainee. As a result, Americans are left in the dark regarding the detainee’s potential membership in al Qaeda or its affiliates, terrorist training, or previous hostile actions against U.S. troops. The American people, and often many of their representatives in Congress, do not even know if the detainee will be detained or released once they are transferred. Without this information, it is difficult for Americans to accurately assess the wisdom of transferring these detainees. With 30% of former Guantanamo detainees confirmed or suspected of reengaging in terrorist activity, this lack of transparency with the American people is not acceptable. For these reasons, we ask your administration to provide unclassified answers to the following questions regarding all detainees currently at Guantanamo: Prior to detention, in what terrorist activities or training did the detainee participate? Prior to detention, did the detainee engage in or support hostilities against U.S. or coalition troops? Prior to detention, with which terrorist organizations was the detainee affiliated? Was the detainee, at any point since being initially detained, deemed to be a high-risk threat to the United States, its interests, or its allies? While detained, has the detainee continued to express support for terrorism? While detained, has the detainee assaulted Joint Task Force Guantanamo guards? When your administration transfers detainees in the future, we ask your administration to make sure the information above has been provided to the American people and to also provide unclassified answers to these questions: Will the individual be detained by the recipient country? Will the detainee be allowed to leave the destination country? This information can be provided without revealing sensitive intelligence sources or methods. Further, general information about the conditions of transfer can be shared publicly without undermining any legitimate concerns of the recipient countries. Any argument that this information cannot be declassified safely and provided to the American people creates the appearance that the administration does not want the American people to know the truth about the detainees at Guantanamo and those being transferred to other countries. In May 2009, you made a compelling and important case for transparency. You continue to argue that it is in the national security interests of the United States to transfer these detainees. Based on your commitment to transparency, combined with your belief that these transfers are in our nation’s interest, it is difficult to imagine any credible justification for keeping this basic information from the American people. We respectfully request that your administration provide this information without delay. Senator Kelly Ayotte Senator James Inhofe Senator Tom Cotton Senator M. Michael Rounds Senator Thom Tillis Senator Tim Scott Senator Lindsey Graham CC: Secretary of State John F. Kerry Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter ###
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Tri-State Delegation Requests Extended Public Comment Period of Reconfiguration of Black Hills Health Care System Members of SD, WY and NE Congressional Delegations Send Letter to VA Secretary WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, led his colleagues from South Dakota, Wyoming and Nebraska in a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to request an extension of the public comment period in the wake of the VA’s Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the proposed reconfiguration of the Black Hills Health Care System (BHHCS). The letter was signed by U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Mike Enzi (R-Wy.), John Barrasso (R-Wy.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) and U.S. Representatives Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wy.) and Adrian Smith (R-Neb.). “The time constraints imposed by the current 60-day comment period may present a significant challenge for veteran stakeholders given that many may be traveling or spending time with family throughout the holiday season,” wrote the Members. “The VA’s public comment meetings also overlap the holiday season, which may further limit stakeholder involvement. For these reasons, we respectfully request that the VA extend the comment period to February 5, 2016.” “As you know, we continue to have concerns about the impact the VA’s proposal to reconfigure the BHHCS will have on access to care for our region’s rural veterans, veteran mental health services, the assumptions made about a future partnership with the Fall River Hospital, and data used to support this proposal,” wrote the Members. “Unfortunately, there also remains an underlying distrust among veterans and Hot Springs stakeholders that the VA has proceeded with a predetermined decision to vacate the Hot Springs VA hospital and domiciliary.” Related Files EIS Letter.pdf
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Video Available: In Advance of Veterans Day, Rounds, Colleagues Introduce New Legislation to Improve Staffing at VA Health Centers WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with Sens. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), today held a press conference in the U.S. Capitol to announce the introduction of the Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act, bipartisan legislation to make common-sense changes in staffing policies at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and improve veterans care at VA health care facilities. “It is our duty to make certain our veterans receive the care and support they have been promised,” said Rounds. “As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I am committed to making improvements at the VA to benefit veterans and cut down on the red-tape our vets have to go through to get the health care benefits they were promised. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act will let veterans receive health care closer to home by removing bureaucratic barriers for their providers.” At many VA health centers around the country, veterans face wait times of weeks or even months for an appointment. These severe roadblocks to providing timely and quality health care to veterans stem in part from a shortfall of tens of thousands of medical staff. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would reduce bureaucratic obstacles to make it easier for the VA to boost staffing at VA health centers and reduce wait times. The legislation would make it easier for service members who have served in medical roles to transfer directly into the VA system, make it easier to transfer or share medical staff and services across VA facilities, and allow Advanced Practice Registered Nurses and Physicians Assistants to provide a wider range of health care to patients, helping expand care in rural areas. Video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sWHPWl-Xk-k
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Senate Passes Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill Includes $23 million construction project for new dormitory at Ellsworth, prevents funding to close GTMO WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee and the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of its first appropriations bill for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016, H.R. 2029, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (MilCon/VA). It passed 93-0. “I am pleased that the Senate is finally doing its job to pass appropriations bills, especially the Military Construction/VA bill to support our veterans, service members and their families,” said Rounds. “We have a duty to take care of our men and women who wear the uniform of the United States, during and after their service. This bipartisan appropriations bill recognizes the needs of a changing veteran population by providing specific funding for health care for female veterans, care for Iraq and Afghanistan vets and treatment for traumatic brain injury. It also includes specific funding provisions for construction and renovation of VA facilities and prevents the Department of Defense from using funds to close the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The Defense Department construction portion of the bill includes a project at our own Ellsworth Air Force Base.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act is one of 12 appropriations bills that are needed to fund the government in FY 2016. It passed out of committee earlier this year by a bipartisan majority vote of 21-9. In October, Senate Democrats blocked this bill from being openly debated and amended on the Senate floor. The bill includes $23 million to construct a new dormitory at Ellsworth Air Force Base near Rapid City.
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Rounds Statement on Senate Passage of NDAA Includes a number of provisions offered by Rounds WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued a statement following the Senate passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill includes a number of provisions offered by Rounds, including language from his Cyber Act of War Act and his legislation requiring training for Department of Defense (DoD) officials to expedite the hiring of cyber security professionals. It also includes his legislation to require DoD to more carefully monitor prescriptions dispensed at military treatment facilities for the treatment of PTSD. “The NDAA is one of the most important pieces of legislation we pass each year, as it shows our troops and their families that they have the full support of Congress,” said Rounds. “As I’ve said before, the number one responsibility of the federal government is keeping Americans safe. The NDAA we passed today will make sure our military remains capable of adequately defending our country in the next year, and for years to come. I am pleased that a number of provisions I offered were included in it as well.” The NDAA includes language from Rounds’ Cyber Act of War Act that would require the president to submit a report to Congress defining when an act in cyber space requires a military response. It also includes his legislation to improve DoD prescription drug monitoring for PTSD and require training of DoD personnel who hire civilian cyber security professionals. ###
11.06.2015	11.06.15 Rounds Statement on President’s Rejection of Keystone XL Pipeline PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s decision to reject the Keystone XL pipeline: “This decision is no surprise,” said Rounds. “While disappointing, this underscores the need for Congress to take affirmative action to see that this project is allowed to move forward. The Keystone XL pipeline would bring millions of dollars of tax revenue to local units of government in South Dakota. It would also ease the congestion on our rail system allowing us to move our crops to market in a more timely and efficient manner.” The Senate voted on legislation earlier this year to approve the Keystone XL pipeline. It passed the Senate 62-36 before being vetoed by the President.
11.05.2015	11.05.15 Senate Passes Resolution Recognizing November as “National Native American Heritage Month” Press Contact WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today applauded the Senate’s passage of a resolution he sponsored recognizing November as “National Native American Heritage Month.” The resolution was adopted by unanimous consent. “In South Dakota, Native Americans have a rich and vibrant history that is deeply woven into the fabric of our society,” said Rounds. “We honor their heritage in many ways in our state, from attending a wacipi or pow
11.05.2015	11.05.15 Rounds Encourages South Dakotans to Send Feedback on TPP WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today posted the full text of the just-released Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement on his website. South Dakotans interested in learning more about the proposed trade agreement are encouraged to review it and send their comments to Sen. Rounds. “International trade plays an important role in American commerce,” said Rounds. “From higher wages for U.S. workers to supporting small businesses and agriculture, trade has a proven record of keeping our economy healthy and vibrant. However, we must make certain these agreements are fair and do not put hard-working South Dakota producers at a competitive disadvantage. The bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation passed earlier this year was an important first step in establishing clear guidelines for reviewing the TPP deal by enforcing transparency, maintaining Congress’ important role in the approval process and giving South Dakotans a voice in the final product. I look forward to reviewing the TPP agreement in the coming months and hearing from South Dakotans before it comes for a vote in the Senate.” On November 5, 2015, the full text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement was made public. This text will be available for public comment for several months before Congress considers it for a vote. The full text of the TPP agreement is available here. South Dakotans can share their thoughts and concerns regarding specific sections of the agreement with Sen. Rounds by calling his Washington, D.C., or South Dakota offices, or by emailing him here.
11.05.2015	11.05.15 Senate Democrats Block Defense Funding Bill Again WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Senate Democrats’ filibuster of the Department of Defense (DoD) appropriations bill for the third time this year, following the budget deal of last week: “Refusing to debate the 12 appropriation bills which provide the necessary funds to keep the government running, simply to create a crisis, is not acceptable,” said Rounds. “Yet again, Senate Democrats blocked an important appropriations bill from being openly debated and amended on the Senate floor, despite receiving overwhelming bipartisan support when it was reported out of committee earlier this year. It will also comply with the funding levels agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, which many Senate Democrats supported and the President signed less than a week ago. But most importantly, this defense appropriations bill will provide our military members and their families with the certainty and stability that they deserve. The United States continues to face new and evolving threats, both at home and abroad. Providing our troops with the tools and support they need to complete their missions is critical.”
11.03.2015	11.03.15 Rounds Statement on Democrat Filibuster of Bill to Stop WOTUS WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today issued the following statement after Senate Democrats filibustered S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, of which he is an original cosponsor. The Federal Water Quality Protection Act would have prevented the Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule from taking effect and would have tasked the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers with completely redrafting the rule using specific direction from Congress. “I am disappointed that Senate Democrats have blocked this commonsense bill to keep our navigable waters safe while also protecting the rights of South Dakota farmers, ranchers and private landowners,” said Rounds. “The overreaching WOTUS rule is one of the largest land grabs in the history of our country and grossly oversteps the intent of the Clean Water Act passed by Congress. Two separate federal courts have blocked its implementation on these grounds, and a bipartisan majority in Congress are working to stop it. I will continue to seek ways to protect South Dakotans from the WOTUS rules’ burdensome new permitting requirements and steep new penalties.” In June, the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers issued a final WOTUS rule that expanded the scope of federal authority over land and water at the expense of states. So far, thirty-one states, including South Dakota, have filed lawsuits against the WOTUS rule and two courts have blocked its implementation.
11.03.2015	11.03.15 Rounds Statement on TransCanada Request to Stop Presidential Permit Application Process of Keystone XL Pipeline WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement regarding TransCanada’s request that the U.S. government suspend its Keystone XL presidential permit application: “TransCanada’s decision to ask for a suspension in the permit application process comes after seven years of delays by the Obama Administration, despite overwhelming support from the American people. Additionally, numerous environmental impact statements have found the pipeline will have no negative effect on the environment. The Keystone XL pipeline is a shovel-ready project that will bring reliable, affordable sources of energy to the U.S., create jobs and free up rail space for South Dakota agricultural products. Despite this temporary setback, I will continue to work to move this project across the finish line so our state and nation can reap its many benefits.”
11.02.2015	11.02.15 Rounds, Ernst Call for Strengthened Support of Kurdish Peshmerga Forces in Iraq WASHINGTON— Following a recent Congressional delegation trip to the Middle East, U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter raising serious concerns voiced by foreign leaders in the region. The senators echoed concerns that the coalition effort to defeat ISIL is not achieving the desired outcome – including U.S. support for the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) and their Peshmerga Forces. They also called on Secretary Carter in their letter to strengthen support to the KRG. The letter comes on the heels of the Obama Administration’s recent decision to deploy U.S. personnel to Kurdish territory in Syria. “Unfortunately, the picture provided to us in theater is starkly different from that which is provided to the American people, and to us as elected officials in the Senate and members of the Senate Armed Services Committee,” the senators wrote. “Specifically, it does not appear that coalition efforts are having the Administration’s desired ‘degrade and destroy’ effects against ISIL.” The senators continued, “While visiting Iraq, our meeting with foreign officials painted a grim picture of the U.S. and coalition effort against ISIL. In particular, our time on the ground did not alleviate our long-standing concerns about inadequate U.S. support to the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) and their Peshmerga forces.” “In conclusion, we ask the Department to strengthen its support to the KRG based on the troubling operational situation in large portions of Iraq, the dedication of the Kurdish Peshmerga in their fight against ISIL, and KRG support provided to the over 1.6 million displaced persons within their territory.” Full text of the letter: Dear Secretary Carter: We write to you today to raise concern regarding our coalition effort to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and support to our Iraqi Kurdish partners. We recently returned from meeting with U.S. servicemembers and foreign leaders throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. Unfortunately, the picture provided to us in theater is starkly different from that which is provided to the American people, and to us as elected officials in the Senate and members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Specifically, it does not appear that coalition efforts are having the Administration’s desired “degrade and destroy” effects against ISIL. While visiting Iraq, our meeting with foreign officials painted a grim picture of the U.S. and coalition effort against ISIL. In particular, our time on the ground did not alleviate our long-standing concerns about inadequate U.S. support to the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) and their Peshmerga forces. While meeting with our KRG allies in Erbil, we were again informed the military support promised to them from Baghdad is far from being provided, and the level of support, such as adequate stocks of small arms ammunition, is not enough to effectively defend their territory against ISIL. Furthermore, the coalition’s piecemeal supply of various Russian and NATO weapons and ammunition makes resupply extremely difficult for Peshmerga forces—as it would for U.S. forces if faced with a similar logistical situation. The KRG also informed us that they require heavier weapons, more equipment in general, and protective gear—as already provided to ISF units for a number of years—to more effectively defend their territory. As this is something we specifically worked to achieve via the NDAA, we have heightened concerns for the needs of our allies on the front lines against ISIL. In conclusion, we ask the Department to strengthen its support to the KRG based on the troubling operational situation in large portions of Iraq, the dedication of the Kurdish Peshmerga in their fight against ISIL, and KRG support provided to the over 1.6 million displaced persons within their territory. Specifically we ask your views on what additional measures the United States can take to support our Kurdish allies. Sincerely, ###
10.29.2015	10.29.15 Rounds Joins Bipartisan Effort to Save Student Loan Program WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with 53 of his colleagues, today signed on to a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-N.V.), urging them to take up and pass a one-year extension of the Perkins Loan Program. This critical lifeline for many low-income students expired on September 30, despite receiving a unanimous one-year, no-cost extension from the House of Representatives on September 28. “While our colleagues in the House of Representatives unanimously approved a one-year, no-cost extension of the program through the Higher Education Extension Act (H.R. 3594), the Senate has yet to advance that measure.,” wrote the senators. “As a result, thousands of current and future students face uncertainty and hundreds of institutions are struggling to find another way to help their neediest students afford their education.” The letter, led by Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) Susan Collins (R-ME), Robert Casey (D-PA) and Rob Portman (R-OH), was signed by Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE), Christopher A. Coons (D-DE), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Richard J. Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten E. Gillibrand (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), John Hoeven (R-ND), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus S. King, Jr. (I-ME), Mark Steven Kirk (R-IL), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick J. Leahy (D-VT), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeffrey A. Merkley (D-OR), Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Christopher S. Murphy (D-CT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Gary C. Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), M. Michael Rounds (R-SD), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), John Thune (R-SD), Patrick J. Toomey (R-PA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The Perkins Loan Program, the nation’s oldest federal student loan program, has existed with broad bipartisan support since 1958 and has provided more than $28 billion in loans through almost 26 million awards to students in all 50 states. In the last academic year alone, the program lent $1.1 billion to more than half a million students with financial need across more than 1,500 institutions of higher education. Full text of the letter: October 28, 2015 The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Harry Reid Senate Majority Leader Senate Minority Leader The Capitol, S-230 The Capitol, S-221 Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Leader McConnell and Leader Reid: On October 1, the authorization of the Perkins Loan Program, the nation’s oldest federal student loan program and a critical lifeline for many low-income students, expired. While our colleagues in the House of Representatives unanimously approved a one-year, no-cost extension of the program through the Higher Education Extension Act (H.R. 3594), the Senate has yet to advance that measure. As a result, thousands of current and future students face uncertainty and hundreds of institutions are struggling to find another way to help their neediest students afford their education. We write to express our strong support for the Perkins Loan Program and to request that the Senate take up and pass the Higher Education Extension Act as soon as possible. The Perkins Loan Program has existed with broad bipartisan support since 1958 and has provided more than $28 billion in loans through almost 26 million awards to students in all 50 states. In the last academic year alone, the program lent $1.1 billion to more than half a million students with financial need across more than 1,500 institutions of higher education. The Perkins Loan Program disburses financial aid to students through a campus-based revolving fund that leverages federal dollars with significant institutional investment. Colleges and universities have continued to participate in this self-sustaining program despite a lapse in federal appropriations for nearly a decade. The required institutional capital contribution gives colleges and universities “skin in the game,” and the loan payments from graduates are used to make new loans to other students. As a campus-based program, Perkins also enables these institutions to provide targeted support to the students they know have the greatest financial need. That is why it is broadly supported by higher education groups, including the Association of American Universities, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, the American Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators, the Coalition of Higher Education Assistance Organizations, the American Council on Education and many others, as well as dozens of individual colleges and universities across the country. There are many students who will be disadvantaged by the Senate’s inaction and the program’s expiration. For example, students who have previously received Perkins loans will lose their eligibility if they change institutions or academic programs. In addition, if the program is not reauthorized soon, students seeking Perkins loans for the upcoming winter and spring semesters in 2016 may be ineligible. All future students will be ineligible for this vital program, which helps fill the gaps between what is available through the Direct Loan Program and a family’s ability to pay. On average, this is $2,000 in financial aid. As many as 150,000 current freshmen will lose access to these loans in the next academic year. Many Senators have proposals aimed at making our various federal student aid programs work better for students, parents, and institutions. We look forward to discussing and debating ways to improve these important federal supports for higher education during this congress. In the meantime, we should immediately take up and pass the House-passed extension to provide certainty to students and ensure that this important source of student financial assistance is not interrupted. Immediately taking up the House-passed extension bill is a simple solution that can provide clarity in the near term to students and the colleges and universities that serve them without any cost to the federal government. The Congressional Budget Office concluded that this one-year extension would incur no new costs to the federal government because it includes limitations on the length of student participation in the program. The House has already acted unanimously to extend the Perkins Loan Program for one year. We urge you to take up and pass the Higher Education Extension Act without delay. Sincerely, ###
10.27.2015	10.27.15 Rounds Statement on Passage of Bipartisan Bill to Protect South Dakotans from Cyber Threats WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) issued the following statement on today’s passage of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA). It passed the Senate with bipartisan support, 74-21. “The World Wide Web is a wonderful tool that has helped us stay connected with loved ones, pay our bills, shop with ease and explore new ideas from the comfort of our homes,” said Rounds. “But we must also be mindful of those who use the Internet to scam others and steal private information. The bipartisan cyber security bill we passed in the Senate today will help protect Americans from such cyber-attacks by allowing companies to share information about cyber-threats to prevent other businesses from falling victim to similar threats. It does so while protecting Americans’ private information from being shared and is 100 percent voluntary. With all the information we put on the Internet today, it’s important that we take steps to protect ourselves online. CISA contains the tools to help mitigate these threats.” The companion bill passed the House of Representatives earlier this year. CISA is supported by President Obama and has been endorsed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
10.27.2015	10.27.15 U.S. Secretary of Energy Updates Delegation on Neutrino Experiment Facility at Sanford Lab WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today received an important project planning update from U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz on the Long-Baseline Neutrino Facility (LBNF). LBNF will facilitate the Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment (DUNE), which will be conducted at the Sanford Underground Research Facility (SURF) in Lead, South Dakota, and the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (Fermilab) in Batavia, Illinois. The project seeks to advance our understanding of neutrino science and particle physics and will attract international scientists, researchers, and educators to the Black Hills, as well as an estimated $150 million in regional economic activity during the project’s construction from 2017-2023. “I thank Secretary Moniz for meeting with the delegation today,” said Rounds. “The research being done at the Sanford Underground Research Facility in Lead is critical to learning more about particle physics, neutrinos and the matter that makes up our universe. I look forward to seeing the Sanford Lab expand and thrive in partnership with Fermilab in Illinois and the international physics community.” “Shooting a beam of neutrino particles hundreds of miles through the Earth to an underground mine in South Dakota might sound like a concept from a Hollywood movie,” said Thune. “Not only will the United States lead this world-class experiment, but South Dakota gets to host it, bringing jobs, researchers, international partners, and a substantial economic boost to the Black Hills.” “The groundbreaking neutrino research to be conducted in South Dakota will give us a new understanding of how the world around us works,” said Noem. “I am encouraged by Secretary Moniz’s support for the project and am hopeful we once again impressed upon him our belief in the value of the Long Baseline Neutrino Facility experiment for our country and the world.” For the experiment, Fermilab will send the highest-intensity beam of neutrinos in the world 800 miles through the Earth’s mantle to a detector at SURF. The U.S. particle physics community identified the project as the highest priority domestic construction project, which will help assure U.S. leadership in neutrino physics over the next 20 to 30 years. SURF is an ideal detector site for the project, as its underground depth will shield the experiment from the effects of cosmic radiation. Earlier this month, the 2015 Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to Dr. Takaaki Kajita of Japan and Dr. Arthur McDonald of Canada for their work with neutrinos, specifically a breakthrough discovery that neutrinos contain mass.
10.27.2015	10.27.15 Rounds, Johnson, King, Manchin Announce New Senate Regulations Caucus WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.), Angus King (I-Maine) and Joe Manchin (D-W. Va.) today announced the formation of the bipartisan Senate Regulations Caucus to address regulatory reform at the federal level. Recognizing the many movements and legislative efforts currently in existence to address regulation, the goal of the Senate Regulations Caucus is to unify and lead these efforts to advance meaningful regulatory reform in Congress. “With more than 1 million federal regulations on the books today, the need for a common sense approach to address unneeded, outdated and unnecessary federal regulations is as important as ever,” said Rounds. “Regulatory compliance costs are not only taking money out of the pocketbooks of South Dakota families, they are stunting economic growth and innovation throughout the country. We are long overdue for an overhaul of the regulatory environment created by Washington. I’m pleased to work with Senators Johnson, King and Manchin to address federal regulation in a practical, business-like manner. I encourage all of our colleagues to join us.” “Unfortunately, Washington is all about addition,” said Johnson. “As a result, layer upon layer of regulation has built up over the years that significantly hampers economic growth and success. Easing the burden of this regulatory burden has been one of my top priorities since coming to the Senate. I’m proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to identify commonsense regulatory reforms. For my part, I will earnestly concentrate on areas of agreement that unite us and that can lead to real results.” “With thousands of new regulations taking effect every year, it’s far past time that Congress got a better handle on the regulatory system that impedes American businesses and hampers vital growth and innovation,” Senator King said. “The Senate Regulations Caucus can lead that effort and spearhead an overhaul of ineffective, duplicative, or outdated regulations so that businesses in Maine and across the country can do what they do best – create jobs and grow the economy.” “In West Virginia, we’ve seen firsthand how federal regulations can stifle industry and destroys jobs. With more than one million federal regulations on the books, the system has simply gotten out of control,” Senator Manchin said. “It is past time to significantly reform the federal regulatory process and reduce unnecessary red tape for job creators. I’m truly proud to work with my colleagues from both parties to address regulatory reform and create a balance between beneficial federal regulations and a thriving job market.” The formation of the Senate Regulations Caucus comes at a time when we have more than one million federal regulations on the books. All 100 members of the Senate are invited to join the caucus. ###
10.27.2015	10.27.15 Rounds Cosponsors Resolution to Overturn Clean Power Plan Rules Resolution Would Nullify Rules for Existing Power Sources WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today cosponsored a resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from moving forward with its proposed Clean Power Plan regulations for existing power sources. “While South Dakota has one coal power plant at Big Stone, we still get much of our power from surrounding states which would be seriously affected by the President’s so-called Clean Power Plan,” said Rounds. “The end result will be sky-high electric rates for South Dakota families, all with very little benefit to the environment. It is just one more example of this administration stretching the limits of the law to issue costly new regulations at the expense of American families who have to pay higher electric bills.” The Clean Power Plan final rules were published in the Federal Register last week. Under the Congressional Review Act, Congress can overturn actions by a federal agency, such as the EPA, after a rule is formally published and submitted to Congress. If the resolution is enacted into law, it would nullify the Clean Power Plan, including any portions of the regulations that have already gone into effect. Last week, South Dakota and 25 other states filed a Petition for Review and a Motion to Stay in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit against the Clean Power Plan.
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Rounds: Obama NDAA Veto a Slap in the Face to our Troops WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after President Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “Having just returned from the Middle East where I met with government and military officials, it is evident the need to provide a stable and clear path forward in our military endeavors. It is very disappointing that the President would veto this military authorization bill, simply because he wants to spend more money on agencies like the IRS and EPA. Holding our military men and women as hostages for this political agenda is not acceptable.” President Obama vetoed the bill even though it met the funding levels he had requested. It now heads back to the House and Senate, where a 2/3 majority in each chamber will be required to override the veto.
10.21.2015	10.21.15 Rounds Chairs Hearing on EPA Regulations WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today conducted a hearing to analyze the process by which the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conducts Regulatory Impact Analyses (RIAs) on the new regulations it imposes on the American people. The hearing, entitled Oversight of Regulatory Impact Analyses for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Regulations, is in response to studies that show EPA has used incomplete, inaccurate and faulty data when analyzing the economic impact its rules will have on citizens and businesses. This has led to more than 3,300 final regulations being published by the EPA since President Obama took office and more than $42 billion in regulatory costs last year alone. “Everybody desires clean air and clean water, but we have to ask whether there is a better way to achieve it without imposing burdensome regulations in which the costs outweigh the benefits,” said Rounds during his opening statement. “Due to the EPA’s failure to clearly and accurately quantify the costs and benefits of regulations, agencies are unable to make well-informed decisions. Even more troubling, the public, American businesses and state and local governments are prevented from understanding the real impact of the regulation and meaningfully participating in the rulemaking process.”
10.21.2015	10.21.15 Rounds Opening Statement at Oversight Hearing on EPA Regulations WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, provided the following opening statement at today’s hearing, entitled “Oversight of Regulatory Impact Analyses for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Regulations.” The purpose of the hearing is to conduct oversight related to impact analyses for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations, including adherence to applicable regulatory guidance and laws. Rounds’ Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing on “Oversight of Regulatory Impact Analyses for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Regulations.” Since President Obama took office in January 2009, the EPA has issued more than 3,300 new final regulations. These regulations impact every U.S. citizen and every U.S. industry – from agriculture to domestic manufacturing and energy production - industries that provide jobs for millions of Americans. Unfortunately, it is those same Americans who shoulder the burden of these broad, overreaching EPA regulations. According to the Office of Management and Budget, over the last ten years, EPA regulations have imposed an estimated $42 billion in annual costs on this country – costs paid for by American taxpayers and businesses. In this Congress, the Environment and Public Works Committee has taken a pointed look at the various regulations being promulgated by the EPA, such as WOTUS and the Clean Power Plan. Further, this subcommittee has specifically looked at the science used by the EPA in their rulemaking process and the impact that lawsuits have on the regulatory process. Today we are taking a step back to analyze the EPA’s rulemaking process as a whole. Our witnesses today will testify to the systematic issues and concerns they are continually seeing in EPA’s regulatory process. The EPA routinely fails to fully monetize the costs versus the benefits of their regulations, imposes unfunded mandates onto state and local governments, ignores the impacts of regulations on small businesses and over-relies on ancillary benefits to justify their regulations. The EPA is required to conduct Regulatory Impact Analyses, commonly known as RIAs, of their regulations to provide both the public and the agencies with accurate information on the costs and benefits of proposed regulations. However, a July 2014 report by the independent Government Accountability Office (GAO) found the EPA failed to conduct a clear, thorough and accurate analysis of the cost and benefits of, or alternatives to, major regulatory actions. Notably, the GAO concluded that “EPA has not fulfilled its responsibility to provide the public with a clear explanation of the economic information supporting its decision making…” As a result, EPA regulations that cost the U.S. economy, small businesses and American taxpayers billions of dollars are being made by Washington bureaucrats who, rather than conducting a thorough, accurate and public analysis of the impacts these regulations will have, are simply rubber-stamping major regulations that drastically reshape segments of the U.S. economy. This impacts American businesses ability to do business on a daily basis, to compete globally, and employ Americans in steady, well-paying jobs. The EPA is also imposing unfunded mandates on states and local governments at an increasing rate. Often, these regulations are finalized with little input by the affected states and local governments, yet these entities are required to use their limited funds and increasingly tight budgets to comply with these new federal regulations. Furthermore, the EPA’s failure to use accurate information to monetize the cost of these regulations provides the states with little guidance or ability to estimate the compliance costs of regulations. In October, in its last decision of the term, the Supreme Court ruled in Michigan v. EPA, that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency unreasonably failed to consider costs when deciding to regulate mercury emissions from power plants. Because of these exorbitant regulatory costs, the EPA has attempted to justify their air regulations by identifying ancillary benefits, which the EPA refers to as “co-benefits” to help outweigh the cost of the regulations. These co-benefits allow the administration to claim a dramatic increase in the net benefits of EPA regulations, regardless of the cost of the regulation. Everybody desires clean air and clean water, but we have to ask whether there is a better way to achieve it without imposing burdensome regulations in which the costs outweigh the benefits. Due to the EPA’s failure to clearly and accurately quantify the costs and benefits of regulations, agencies are unable to make well-informed decisions. Even more troubling, the public, American businesses and state and local governments are prevented from understanding the real impact of the regulation and meaningfully participating in the rulemaking process. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony.
10.20.2015	10.20.15 Rounds Votes to Protect American Families, Strengthen Immigration Enforcement WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today voted to proceed to debate on the Stop Sanctuary Policies and Protect Americans Act, legislation that would withhold federal funding from sanctuary jurisdictions that fail to comply with certain federal immigration laws. Unfortunately, the bill was filibustered by Senate Democrats. “The fact that state and local governments release dangerous criminals who are here illegally should be of great concern to all Americans, whether or not they live near a sanctuary city,” said Rounds. “This bill would protect American families by strengthening our borders and would make it easier for the federal government to deport criminals who are here illegally.” A sanctuary jurisdiction is any state or locality that forbids its local law enforcement from sharing information with federal immigration officials or complying with an immigration detainer or a request for notification of an alien’s release from custody. The Stop Sanctuary Policies and Protect Americans Act limits grants to sanctuary jurisdictions. It also amends federal law to provide that when a local law enforcement officer complies with an immigration detainer issued by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), that officer is acting as an agent of DHS and has the same power and liabilities as a DHS agent to hold the person listed in the detainer. Finally, the legislation increases the statutory maximum penalty for illegal reentry from two years to five years and creates a maximum penalty of 10 years for illegal reentries where the alien has been removed on three or more prior occasions. It is endorsed by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the National Association of Police Organizations, and the National Sheriffs’ Association, in addition to organizations that represent victims of illegal immigration.
10.19.2015	10.19.15 Following Concerns from Rounds, GOP Colleagues, DOL Announces Plans to Rewrite Fiduciary Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today made the following statement after the Department of Labor (DOL) announced plans to revise its proposed fiduciary rule. Earlier this year, Rounds joined 35 of his Republican colleagues in a letter to DOL Secretary Thomas Perez in which they outlined their concerns regarding the proposed rule and requested an extension of the comment period. “I am pleased that the Department of Labor has listened to the concerns we outlined in our letter and recognized the need to rework its plan to expand the fiduciary rule,” said Rounds. “For months, I have been hearing from South Dakotans who are concerned about the rule’s unintended consequences for American families. As previously drafted, the rule would require financial advisors to become fiduciaries, the cost of which would be handed down to those who rely on investment services to plan for their future. The Department of Labor has said it will take time to revise this rule. So long as it places the retirement savings of American families at risk, I will continue to oppose this harmful regulation.” Full text of the letter is attached. Related Files 2015 5 13 Letter to DOL (Fiduciary Rule Comment Period)1.pdf
10.16.2015	10.16.15 Rounds Congratulates 114th Fighter Wing on Air Force Award WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today congratulated the 114th Fighter Wing of the South Dakota Air National Guard for receiving the 2014 Air Force Outstanding Unit award for the time period of October 1, 2012, to September 30, 2014. “The 114th Fighter Wing has been on the frontlines protecting our country,” said Rounds. “They are among the best our nation has to offer, performing every mission with integrity, honor and selfless commitment. This award is recognition of what a great team they are. We appreciate and thank them for their hard work.” The South Dakota Air National Guard was founded by former Governor Joe Foss in 1946. The 114th Fighter Wing is based at Joe Foss Air Field in Sioux Falls. The 114th Fighter Wing has been awarded the Air Force Outstanding Unit award seven times.
10.14.2015	10.14.15 Rounds Introduces Fall Semester Interns WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) introduced two South Dakota college students as fall 2015 interns in his Washington, D.C., office. Sophie Doeden is from Beresford, SD, and is a junior at Northern State University in Aberdeen. Sophie is majoring in political science and minoring in history and economics. She is involved in Girls State and teaches Sunday school at her church. Kristi Blackler is from Rapid City, SD, and is a senior at the University of South Dakota in Vermillion. Kristi is majoring in political science and international studies. She is active in Model United Nations and College Republicans. Intern duties include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Interns work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a U.S. Senate office. The fall internship program in Sen. Rounds’ office lasts through December. College students interested in a spring 2016 semester internship in the Washington, D.C. office or in one of Sen. Rounds’ state offices can visit www.rounds.senate.gov, call Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450, or email a resume and cover letter to erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. College credit is available.
10.13.2015	10.13.15 Rounds Calls on VA Secretary to Hold Benefits Bureaucrats Accountable for ‘Shockingly Unethical’ Misuse of Funds “Now more than ever, VA needs leaders committed to changing the culture and old way of doing business.” WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with other members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today called on the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to hold accountable senior bureaucrats who participated in a “shockingly unethical” scheme at the Veterans Benefits Administration to increase pay for high-level employees by transferring them to other positions within the administration. According to a VA Office of Inspector General investigation requested by the committee, the Veterans Benefits Administration, or VBA, spent nearly $2 million over the past three years to transfer 22 VBA employees to different positions, using the transfers as justification for increasing their pay and offering exorbitant relocation incentives. In one case, a VBA bureaucrat used her authority to create a position for herself that required less responsibilities and the VA paid $274,000 in relocation expenses in addition to retaining her previous salary. Under Secretary for Benefits Allison Hickey was aware of the scheme and allowed it to continue under her watch. In a letter to McDonald, the committee members called on the secretary to hold all the senior-level bureaucrats involved accountable, noting that “there is no indication that these transfers were in any way based on merit or intended to serve the best interests of veterans.” “Now more than ever, VA needs leaders committed to changing the culture and old way of doing business,” wrote the senators. “During your confirmation hearing, you told this Committee that ‘those employees that have violated the trust of the Department and of veterans must, and will be, held accountable.’ More recently, at a field hearing in Gainesville, Georgia, you testified that you have the tools you need to do just that. So, we call on you now to live up to your commitment and to hold accountable those who orchestrated, participated in, or benefitted from the unethical practices outlined in this report, including but not limited to the Under Secretary for Benefits.” In addition, the committee members asked that the secretary review all pending relocation efforts for senior level employees and provide a plan for reforming the approval and reimbursement of relocation expenses at the VA. The letter was signed by U.S Senators Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), chairman and ranking member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, respectively, Dean Heller (R-Nev.), and committee members Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Jerry Moran, (R-Kan.), John Boozman, (R-Ark.), Bill Cassidy, (R-La.), Thom Tillis, (R-N.C.), Dan Sullivan, (R-Alaska), Patty Murray, (D-Wash.), Sherrod Brown, (D-Ohio), Jon Tester, (D-Mont.), and Mazie Hirono, (D-Hawaii). Full text of the letter appears below. A PDF of the signed letter is available here. The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: As Members of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, we ask that you take urgent and immediate actions regarding the shockingly unethical practices described in the September 28, 2015, report from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General, entitled “Administrative Investigation: Inappropriate Use of Position and Misuse of Relocation Program and Incentives” at the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Our Committee confirmed your nomination to fundamentally overhaul and reform this struggling agency, after VA faced a moment of crisis that resulted from failed leadership and a culture that in some cases led VA leaders and employees to act contrary to their core mission to serve veterans. But, unfortunately, it is clear from this report that your well-intentioned and meaningful efforts to change the culture at VA have not yet taken hold. As you are aware, the report outlines an orchestrated scheme – carried out by numerous senior executives at VBA - to skirt salary and bonus limitations for senior VBA leaders by unnecessarily relocating executives and using those moves to justify increases in their pay and relocation benefits. In fact, VBA spent nearly $2 million on transferring 22 VBA leaders across the country over the past three years and offering generous pay increases and relocation perks to the relocating officials. There is no indication that these transfers were in any way based on merit or intended to serve the best interests of veterans. In fact, one VBA official confirmed that this was simply an effort to “get around pay freezes and bans on performance bonuses” for senior VBA leaders and the Under Secretary for Benefits, Allison Hickey, admitted that this scheme was an effort to make the pay of these VBA officials “more even” or to achieve “level-setting pay.” In addition to that broader scheme, the Inspector General found that Ms. Diana Rubens used her position of authority within VBA to create a vacancy in Philadelphia that she later volunteered to fill. This new position brought much less responsibility than her prior position, yet she retained the same Senior Executive Service pay, and VA paid a total of $274,000 for relocation expenses. The Inspector General also found that Ms. Kimberly Graves created a vacancy in St. Paul – in part by forcing the transfer of the VA regional office Director to another city – so that she could then fill that vacancy. This position change also resulted in fewer responsibilities, but she too maintained the same level of pay. The Inspector General concluded that these officials inappropriately used their positions of authority for personal and financial benefit. In addition, it is clear from the report that Ms. Hickey and her leadership team were aware of, assisted with, and authorized these actions. Now more than ever, VA needs leaders committed to changing the culture and old way of doing business. During your confirmation hearing, you told this Committee that “those employees that have violated the trust of the Department and of veterans must, and will be, held accountable.” More recently, at a field hearing in Gainesville, Georgia, you testified that you have the tools you need to do just that. So, we call on you now to live up to your commitment and to hold accountable those who orchestrated, participated in, or benefitted from the unethical practices outlined in this report, including but not limited to the Under Secretary for Benefits. Moreover, we ask that you: (1) review all pending relocation efforts for Senior Executive Service employees to ensure staffing and salary adjustments would be in the best interests of veterans rather than VA officials (2) provide documentation of any actions you are taking to stop the practice of inappropriate relocations (3) provide a plan for reforming the approval and reimbursement of relocation expenses, including reforms to the Appraised Value Option program (4) identify any Office of Personnel Management requirements that might restrict your ability to lower compensation for Senior Executive Service employees who are transferred to match the requirements of their position and (5) update this Committee on steps you are taking to fill vacant and “acting” Senior Executive positions. Given the seriousness of the issues identified in the Inspector General’s report, we would ask that you provide a response to this letter no later than October 23, 2015. We thank you for your dedicated service on behalf of veterans across the nation and look forward to continuing to work with you to restore the integrity of the institution created to meet their needs. Sincerely,
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Rounds Supports Court Decision on WOTUS WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee and Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management and Regulatory Oversight, made the following statement on today’s Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals decision to stay the Obama Administration’s recent changes to the definition of “Waters of the U.S.” (WOTUS). The final WOTUS rule was released earlier this year. “I support the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals decision today to suspend the Administration’s final WOTUS rule,” said Rounds. “Today’s decision is a victory for states’ rights and every landowner in the United States. In South Dakota, we rely on our vast land and natural resources for nearly every aspect of our lives: to provide clean water, maximize agricultural production, provide recreation, bring in tourism and more. We are already good stewards of our land without unelected bureaucrats in Washington saddling us with expansive new regulations, permitting and reporting requirements. Today’s decision pushes back on the Obama Administration’s extreme regulatory overreach. This is not the first time EPA’s overreach has been challenged in court. There are also cases pending regarding new fracking regulations and the Clean Power Plan. I will continue to fight to protect South Dakotans from these and other instances of overregulation from the Obama administration.”” On October 9, the United States Court of Appeals in the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay of the final WOTUS rule. In issuing the stay, the court determined that “petitioners have demonstrated a substantial possibility of success on the merits of their claims.” A federal judge in North Dakota had previously blocked the WOTUS rule in 13 states, including South Dakota.
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Rounds Supports Nomination of Randy Seiler to Be U.S. Attorney for South Dakota WASHINGTON —U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD) announced his support for President Obama’s decision to nominate Randy Seiler of Fort Pierre to be U.S. Attorney for South Dakota. Seiler, a longtime federal prosecutor, had been serving as acting U.S. attorney since March. His nomination will now head to the Senate for confirmation. “Randy is a friend who has earned the respect and admiration of many South Dakotans,” said Rounds. “He has the experience, integrity and professionalism necessary to faithfully uphold the Constitution and protect South Dakotans. I applaud President Obama for nominating Randy to this post and look forward to his quick approval by the Senate.” ###
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Rounds Signs on to VETS Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today signed on as an original cosponsor to the bipartisan Veterans E-Health and Telemedicine Support Act of 2015 (VETS Act). This bill would allow Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health professionals to provide telemedicine services across state lines if they are qualified and practice within the scope of their authorized federal duties. “The VA’s telehealth program allows our veterans to receive quality care from the comfort of their home and make fewer trips to the doctor’s office and reduces overall health care costs,” said Rounds. “Our legislation will expand the VA telehealth program by allowing it to cross state lines. This is especially important to large, rural states like South Dakota, whose veterans may live hundreds of miles from the closest VA facility.” Currently, the VA can only waive state license requirements if both the patient and provider are located in a federally owned facility. However, if the veteran and provider are located in the same state, the VA performs many at-home telehealth care appointments. This requires veterans in rural locations seeking telehealth treatment across state lines to travel to a federal facility, just to use a camera or a phone. This unnecessary barrier to care increases VA costs and needlessly inconveniences veterans who are seeking the care they deserve. This legislation also makes sure Congress can oversee the VA’s telehealth program by requiring the VA to measure the program’s effectiveness.
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Rounds Joins Colleagues on Letter Questioning Delayed OMB Report WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW) and chairman of the Senate EPW Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today joined his colleagues in a letter to the Hon. Shaun Donovan, director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), regarding OMB’s delay in publishing the required report to Congress on the benefits and costs of federal regulations. “Your office has yet to publish its statutorily required 2015 Draft Report to Congress on the Benefits and Costs of Federal Regulations,” the Senators wrote. “Under section 624 of Public Law 106-554, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is required to submit to Congress, along with the President’s Budget Request, an accounting statement and report of the annual costs and benefits of federal regulations.” The Senators went on to say, “This report is not only a statutory mandate, it also provides critical information to the public and helps Congress fulfill its oversight responsibilities. As you are aware, the report is the only government-issued document that discloses the overall annual costs and benefits of federal regulations.” “Overall, we are disappointed your office is ignoring a statutory mandate to publish the report and are concerned the delay may be an effort to withhold key information on the costs and benefits of its regulatory agenda from the public. To demonstrate that this is not your intent, we request that your office release a draft statement and report for public comment as soon as possible and schedule a briefing with EPW Committee and RAFM Subcommittee majority staff on the reason for delay, the process used in compiling a draft report, and plans for finalizing the report,” the Senators concluded. Other signers include Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee; Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Management; Sens. David Vitter (R-La.), chairman of the Senate EPW Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure; John Barrasso (R-Wyo.); Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.); and Deb Fisher (R-Neb.). Earlier this year, Rounds introduced the bipartisan Regulation Sensibility Through Oversight Restoration (RESTORE) Resolution, which would establish a Joint Select Committee to conduct a comprehensive review of rules enacted by federal agencies and analyze the feasibility and options for creating a rules review process in congress. The committee would also hold hearings on the effects of these rules and recommend ways to reduce the regulatory burden on the American people. To read the full text of the letter, click here.
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Rounds: Senate Democrats Continue to Block Appropriations Process WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, today expressed his disappointment that Senate Democrats blocked another appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2016. H.R. 2028, the Energy and Water appropriations bill, was filibustered on the Senate floor today despite receiving overwhelming bipartisan support when it passed the Senate Appropriations Committee earlier this year. “Senate Democrats continue denying us the opportunity to debate these bills on their merits,” said Rounds. “These tactics, if continued, put us in a position where we will be faced with another government shutdown just before the holidays. We only have until December 11th to pass appropriations bills, so it is important we take them up in a timely manner. The appropriations process is an important duty of Congress. It allows us to enact meaningful reform and prioritize federal programs. Many of these bills have passed with broad, bipartisan support in committee. Unfortunately, Democrats have refused to even debate the appropriations bills on the floor of the Senate. Since they are not allowing debate on appropriations bills we cannot accept amendments to find common ground. Stopping the appropriations process in this manner, and refusing to negotiate on the individual bills, is apparently intended to obtain a continuing resolution based on last year’s funding bills in which Democrat’s policies would be sustained.” The Energy and Water appropriations bill is one of 12 appropriations bills to fund the government for Fiscal Year 2016.
10.07.2015	10.07.15 Rounds Praises Senate Passage of Major Bill to Support our Troops WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today praised the Senate’s passage of the final version of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016, which included a number of provisions he offered. Rounds’ provisions to help develop the Air Force’s new bomber and improve the health care of our service members, military retirees and their families were included in the final NDAA passed by the Senate.‎ “I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to pass legislation to provide our Armed Forces with the tools they need to successfully complete their missions and protect our nation,” said Rounds. “In these dangerous times, our troops deserve our full support. I hope President Obama reconsiders his threat to veto this bipartisan legislation. Refusing to support our troops through this legislation, simply because we are not in favor of giving the IRS and EPA more money, is a poor excuse for a veto. “I’m also pleased that four provisions I offered were included in the final NDAA. I thank my colleagues for supporting these important provisions.” The NDAA also included amendments Rounds offered to improve the Pentagon workforce that develops new weapons and help states and localities if they are targets of cyber-attacks.
10.01.2015	10.01.15 Rounds: Latest Democrat Filibuster of Appropriations Legislation Hurts South Dakota Veterans WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, today expressed his disappointment after Senate Democrats blocked a bipartisan appropriations bill that would fund projects related to military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Military Construction and VA and Related Agencies Appropriations Act is one of 12 appropriations bills that would fund the government for Fiscal Year 2016. Earlier this year, it passed out of committee by a vote of 21-9 with broad support from both sides of the aisle. “Supporting our men and women in uniform who sacrifice everything to protect our freedoms is not a partisan issue,” said Rounds. “By filibustering this bill, Senate Democrats are playing political football at the expense of South Dakota veterans and service members. Without the funding certainty this appropriations bill would bring, the VA will be unable to start any new long-term projects or have the full ability to address existing problems that could help our veterans receive better care. Additionally, military construction projects – such as a $23 million dormitory at Ellsworth Air Force Base – are in jeopardy. “By denying us the opportunity to debate the bill, Senate Democrats put us in position for another government shutdown. The American people want their elected officials to do our job. Since passing a last-minute continuing resolution, we now have until December 11th to pass appropriations bills. We shouldn’t wait until the last minute. The only way to amend or debate these spending bills is to bring them up for a vote on the floor of the Senate. “Veterans, service members and their families deserve better than another Democrat filibuster of bipartisan legislation that supports national security efforts and strengthens the health and welfare of our vets.” ###
09.30.2015	09.30.15 Rounds Questions Army Corps Official on WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON —U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today at a hearing questioned U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) Jo Ellen Darcy on her agency’s participation in the development of the final Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule. WOTUS dramatically expands the federal government’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act – far beyond what Congress intended – by requiring onerous and unnecessary new reporting requirements. During Rounds’ questioning, Darcy confirmed that the WOTUS rule is a major rule with wide-ranging economic and political implications. This contradicts an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) conclusion that it was not economically significant and did not warrant additional review and analysis prior to being implemented. ROUNDS: In your testimony, you indicated that 404 permits were a critical part of the responsibility of the Corps in terms of determining the issue, and that they impact the quality of water. But, it impacts [industries] because they want [economic certainty] as well. Fair statement? DARCY: Yes. ROUNDS: You understand how critical – and the reason why – [this rule] is so important for a lot of people out there – the business community, a lot of people depending on the availability of access to the shores and so forth – this is a pretty important economic decision, isn’t it? DARCY: Yes… Further, Darcy confirmed to Rounds that 31 states are currently involved in 22 lawsuits over the WOTUS rule, making it one of the largest political issues the Army Corps has been involved with. ROUNDS: I think you were right that this is a very important rule that you have made some interpretations on. Fair to say? DARCY: It is a very important rule. I think it’s a generational rule for the Clean Water Act. ROUNDS: If we look at not just the combination of what is in this particular case, the political outlook for all of these states, and we have this many bodies all sitting side-by-side challenging what has been done… And then you look at the impact economically in terms of the significant changes it could make with regard to the number of 404 permits; the number of individuals – whether they are farmers and ranchers – this is one of the biggest political and economic deals you have been involved with in perhaps a generation. Click HERE to watch Rounds' questioning in full.
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Rounds Statement on Passing of Former Governor Walter Dale Miller WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the passing of former Governor Walter Dale Miller: “Jean and I send our deepest sympathies to Pat and the Miller family as they deal with this tragic loss,” said Rounds. “Walt was a longtime friend and mentor who led our state through a difficult time. His love of South Dakota and legacy of public service is one we can all admire. Our thoughts and prayers will continue to be with the Millers.”
09.23.2015	09.23.15 Deadline Approaching for Spring Internship Applications WASHINGTON– U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced the deadline is approaching to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices for the spring 2016 semester. The spring semester will run from mid-January to mid-May. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should complete the online internship application and submit a resume no later than October 15, 2015. Resumes should be submitted to Erin Budmayr, intern coordinator at erin_budmayr@rounds.senate.gov. Information about the internship program, along with the application, can be found online at www.rounds.senate.gov/internships. Additional questions can be directed to Erin Budmayr at (605) 224-1450.
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Rounds Cosponsors Born-Alive Protection Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today cosponsored the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. “This is not a pro-life versus pro-choice issue: it is a matter of fact,” said Rounds. “A baby who survives an abortion has the same rights under the law as any other newborn baby. In the history of the world, the true test of society is how well we treat the most vulnerable among us. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act is an opportunity to do the right thing and make certain we are protecting the most helpless and defenseless in our society.” The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which is identical to that passed by the House of Representatives last week on a bipartisan vote of 248-177, would protect newborns that survive abortions by requiring appropriate care and admission to a hospital. The legislation requires that, when an abortion results in the live birth of an infant, health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of professional skill and care to protect the newborn as would be offered to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. It also requires that the living child, after appropriate care has been given, be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. The bill was introduced by Senator Ben Sasse (R-Neb.). Original cosponsors to the legislation include: Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Dan Coats (R-Ind.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Lindsay Graham (R-S.C.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.).
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Rounds: Democrats Continue to Filibuster Appropriations Bills WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after Senate Democrats again filibustered the national defense appropriations bills: “I have been a proponent of establishing regular order to the Senate budget and appropriations process, yet Senate Democrats refuse to allow us to consider a single appropriations bill. National defense spending should have been the first of 12 appropriations bills debated and amended on the Senate floor. By continuing to filibuster these bills, Senate Democrats are preventing the American people a voice on how and where their hard-earned tax dollars are spent. We cannot find common ground on legislation unless we are allowed to actually discuss them on the floor. “No one wants to see a government shutdown, but refusing to allow appropriations bills to be considered by the full Senate when 9 of the 12 received broad bipartisan support in committee is both reckless and irresponsible. As it becomes apparent that Democrats in the Senate are obstructing the process, I am pleased leadership is taking the next step to prevent a government shutdown by introducing a funding mechanism that includes policy changes. This moves us in a path that I can support so that we can continue making changes to spending policy.” ###
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Rounds Calls for Maintaining Rigorous Security Vetting Process for Syrian Refugees WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Joni Ernst (R-I.A.) and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), today sent a letter to U.S. Department of State Secretary John Kerry and U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson urging them to maintain the rigorous security vetting process of all applicants to ensure terrorist organizations like ISIL do not take advantage of the situation. “With over 4 million refugees and 7.6 million internally displaced people, the crisis in Syria is the largest refugee problem in a generation,” the Senators wrote. “While the United States should continue its tradition of helping those fearing persecution because of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion, we must be aware that terrorist organizations like ISIL will try and take advantage of the situation.” Full text of the Senators’ letter is below: Dear Secretaries Johnson and Kerry, We write regarding the need to ensure that, as the United States considers increasing the number of Syrian refugees allowed into the country, we maintain rigorous security vetting of all applicants. While the United States is a compassionate country and has a role to play in alleviating the suffering of people caught up in this tragedy, we must strike a balance that does not ever sacrifice the safety of our citizens. Our country has a proud history of accepting some of the world’s most vulnerable refugees. Each year, the United States aims to ensure at least half of all refugees referred by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) are considered for resettlement in the United States. In 2013, more than two-thirds of UNHCR-referred refugees were resettled in the United States. With over 4 million refugees and 7.6 million internally displaced people, the crisis in Syria is the largest refugee problem in a generation. While the United States should continue its tradition of helping those fearing persecution because of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion, we must be aware that terrorist organizations like ISIL will try and take advantage of the situation. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper recently said “we don’t obviously put it past the likes of ISIL to infiltrate operatives among these refugees.” The Administration recently announced its intention of taking in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next year. While we support United States efforts in providing assistance to refugees, under no circumstances should your agencies sacrifice the thoroughness of the security vetting process in order to admit a certain number of refugees. For example, refugees currently undergo biographic and biometric checks that are run against the Terrorist Screening Database and files from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Defense, Interpol, and other agencies. We also understand that the Department of Homeland Security's U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services is reviewing all Syrian refugee cases prior to any interviews in order to identify potential national security concerns and that officers adjudicating cases with Syrian applicants are receiving Syria-specific training. The current vetting process often requires 18-24 months of review before a refugee is even able to set foot on U.S. soil. These are prudent measures which should absolutely not be cut short in an effort to try and accommodate more refugees than the process can safely handle. As a nation founded by immigrants, the United States should continue to play a leading role in addressing the humanitarian crisis caused by the conflict in Syria. As you consider accepting additional Syrian refugees, we ask for your commitment in maintaining the current rigorous security protocols and ask for a detailed plan of how you will specifically address the threat of infiltration by terrorist groups like ISIL.
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Rounds Statement on Democrat Filibuster on Iran Deal Provisions “Protecting Americans’ lives should not be a partisan issue, nor should supporting our longstanding friend and ally, Israel.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement after Senate Democrats again blocked consideration of legislation related to the Iran deal, denying the American people a voice on the president’s nuclear concession deal with Iran: “Once again, a minority of Senators are denying the elected representatives of the American people an opportunity to vote on one of the most consequential issues of our time,” said Rounds. “In doing so, they are putting the President’s legacy ahead of the lives of the Americans who are currently being held hostage in Iran and threatening our national security here at home. Protecting Americans’ lives should not be a partisan issue, nor should supporting our longstanding friend and ally, Israel. Yet our president and a minority of his party in Congress are insistent on dealing with an Iranian regime which continues to call for “Death to Israel” and describes the U.S. as the Great Satan. It is politics at its worst.” This morning, Senate Democrats blocked consideration of legislation that would require Iran to recognize Israel as a state and release the Americans held hostage in Iran before any U.S. sanctions with Iran could be lifted. This comes after Senate Democrats twice blocked consideration of the Iran deal itself, despite overwhelmingly supporting the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act earlier this year, which is based on the principle that Congress should have a say on whether the U.S. should adopt the President’s nuclear deal with Iran. # # #
09.15.2015	09.15.15 Rounds Urges Colleagues to Reject Iran Nuclear Deal “I urge my fellow Senators to vote against President Obama’s deal with Iran. It's wrong for the United States and for the world.” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), today delivered a speech on the Senate floor encouraging his colleagues to join him in opposing the President’s nuclear deal with Iran. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA, between the United States, Great Britain, France, China, Russia, Germany and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Much has been said about this agreement over the past weeks and months. My colleagues have addressed a great number of concerns and deficiencies about the deal and many outside experts have testified before multiple committees of Congress explaining their views as well. In addressing these concerns, I wish to ask a few simple questions: Do we believe that with this agreement, the U.S. and our allies are safer today than we were a year ago and will we be safer when the nuclear limitations expire in ten years? The answers to these questions are very important. They will dictate what we decide in one of the most important votes we cast in the 114th Congress. After closely examining this agreement, the following can be concluded: Upon verification by the IAEA (the International Atomic Energy Agency) of Iranian compliance, supposedly within a few months if Iran is in compliance, they will, after payment of their obligations, receive around $56 billion dollars that was frozen in overseas accounts. Further revenue will be generated because the European Union has agreed to lift its ban on the import of Iranian oil thereby providing Iran with billions more in revenue with which to repair its oil fields and begin to repair its battered economy. According to the Wall Street Journal, Iran’s deputy petroleum minister recently stated that his country’s oil exports would reach 2.3 million barrels a day, compared with around 1.2 million barrels today. Iran would also gain access to 50 million barrels of its oil held offshore, and economists estimate that Iran’s economy will grow up to nine percent in the year after implantation of the agreement. This verification by the IAEA will be accomplished through protocols that members of the Senate have not seen in writing and that the Administration has not nor will they agree to provide to us. This is in direct contravention to the Iran Review Act which the President signed into law agreeing to provide ALL documents and side agreements, and according to reports, will unbelievably, allow the Iranians to provide their own inspections of their military work on nuclear sites to the IAEA. A robust inspection regime requires an anytime, anywhere policy. Unfortunately, under the idea of “managed access” as found in the agreement, if the I-A-E-A requests access to an undeclared location under the JCPOA, Iran can delay access to the facility for two weeks or longer with the outlined multi-step process for undeclared locations. U.S. sanctions against foreign firms for dealing with Iran in the oil and financial sectors, which have been the most effective sanctions enacted against Iran, will be suspended upon implementation of the agreement. Sanctions prohibiting U.S. firms from conducting business with Iran will remain in place, but with a large carve out for non-U.S. entities that are owned or controlled by U.S. companies. Some sanctions will also be lifted against Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, the entity that runs the military aspects of Iran’s nuclear program. Furthermore, the agreement requires the U.S. to make certain that U.S. state and local governments comply with sanctions relief contravening their own sanctions placed on Iran. The JCPOA also commits the P5 + 1 to work to strengthen Iran’s ability to protect against, and respond to nuclear security threats, including sabotage - which we can presume would mean from even our allies who feel deeply threatened by this agreement which transforms Iran, a terrorist state, to a breakout nuclear power and a terrorist state. In year five of this agreement, Iran will be removed from the United Nations arms embargo. Yet, as the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin Dempsey told the Senate Armed Services Committee in August, QUOTE “under no circumstances should we relieve pressure on Iran relative to ballistic missile capabilities and arms trafficking.” UNQUOTE In year eight of this agreement, Iran will be removed from the United Nations ballistic missile embargo. In July, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter confirmed to me in a hearing that under this deal, he could not rule out Iran acquiring an intercontinental ballistic missile within ten years that could hit the United States. This means that Iran would have the capability of producing a nuclear weapon that could reach U.S. soil in a decade. These comments come after General Paul Selva, now the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told me during a separate hearing that Iran remains the leading state sponsor of terrorism, and resources gained in sanctions relief under the nuclear deal could be used by Iran to continue sponsoring terrorism. Under the agreement, the United States agreed to allow the nuclear related equipment to remain in Iran under lock and key, and Iran will be allowed to continue researching IR-4, IR-5, IR-6 and IR-8 centrifuges. Iran will also be allowed to begin testing IR-6 and IR-8 centrifuges in cascades of 30 at year eight of the agreement. After eight years many R&D restrictions are removed and Iran will begin to manufacture advanced centrifuges. All R&D restrictions end at 10 years. Finally, after 10 years, Iran will be free of the restrictions on enrichment and could become a nuclear threshold state – legally under international law, only postponing the inevitable nuclearization of Iran. So, Mr. President, with these facts established, I am left with what appears to me to be the undeniable answer to my questions: The U.S. and our Middle Eastern allies are absolutely not safer today than we were a year ago and we will all be left unquestionably less safe when this agreement ends in ten years. I therefore oppose this deal. It is an agreement that will reward a violent, terrorist regime. Instead of stopping the Iranians from ever obtaining a nuclear weapon, it merely delays it. This deal is shortsighted and dangerous for our security. Just a few days ago I was talking with my eight year old grandson back in South Dakota. He asked me what I was working on in the Senate and I told him about the President's proposed deal with Iran. I told him what we were giving them. I told him about the money, the lifting of the sanctions, the access to weapons and soon, the ability to make a very bad bomb. After all this he looked at me and asked, "what do we get out of it?" Mr. President, if this third grader can see how bad this deal is so should we. In conclusion, I urge my fellow Senators to vote against President Obama’s deal with Iran. It's wrong for the United States and for the world. And as my grandson understood, we are getting a bad deal - one that we should reject.
09.10.2015	09.10.15 Rounds Statement on Democrat Filibuster of Iran Nuclear Concession Deal WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Democrat filibuster of the Iran nuclear concession deal. Earlier this year, all but one Democrat Senator voted in favor of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015, which is based on the principle that Congress should have a say on whether the U.S. should adopt the President’s nuclear deal with Iran. “By refusing to let the Senate take an up-or-down vote on the president’s nuclear deal with Iran, the American people are being robbed a voice in one of the most consequential issues of our time,” said Rounds. “We are being prevented from voting on a deal that is opposed by bipartisan majorities in both chambers of Congress and an overwhelming majority of Americans. Meanwhile, Iran continues to be the number one sponsor of terrorism in the world and continues to promote hatred of the West. Just this week, Iran’s Supreme Leader called the U.S. the “Great Satan” and vowed to obliterate our friend and ally Israel in the next 25 years. If we are going to give this regime access to nuclear warheads and nuclear research, new markets for their oil and tens of billions of dollars in cash which officials have admitted could be used to advance terrorism, the American people deserve to know where their elected officials stand on the issue.”
09.10.2015	09.10.15 Rounds Cosponsors Legislation to Roll Back NLRB Decision WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) signed on as an original cosponsor to legislation that would roll back the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) “joint employer” decision, which the chairmen of the House and Senate labor committees say “threatens to steal the American dream from owners of the nation’s 780,000 franchise businesses and millions of contractors.” The Protecting Local Business Opportunity Act would roll back the NLRB ruling and reaffirm an employer must have “actual, direct and immediate” control over an employee to be considered a joint employer. “Once again, this Administration and the NLRB have bypassed Congress with their joint-employer ruling would have major repercussions for millions of Americans who provide work as subcontractors and hundreds of thousands of franchise owners,” said Rounds. “Under this new standard, franchises could be held liable for the wage and hiring practices of its franchisee owners –removing any incentive for a corporation to sell franchises. Our legislation would overturn the NLRB decision and restore a legal standard for determining who is a joint employer.” For approximately 40 years, federal labor policies held that two separate employers are “joint employers” if both employers have direct and immediate control over employment terms and working conditions, such as being responsible for tasks like hiring and firing, setting work hours, issuing direction to employees, determining compensation and handling day to day record keeping. Under a new standard adopted last month by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in a case involving Browning Ferris Industries (BFI), a 3-2 partisan majority said that merely “indirect control” or even “unexercised potential” to control working conditions will now make two separate employers joint employers. This new standard will be applied retroactively. The new standard means that in many more cases multiple employers will have to jointly negotiate working conditions with unions and share liability for labor law violations. As a result, larger business will exert greater control over the smaller employer who actually owns and operates the business, such as stores, restaurants and day care centers. Additionally, fewer employers will parcel out business to local subcontractors, suppliers or subsidiaries, for fear that they will now be liable for the subcontractor’s employment decisions. Millions of employees will also lose the ability to negotiate things like pay, hours and leave time with their direct supervisor, because those decisions will now be made between the larger employer and the union. Originally introduced by Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Senate HELP Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA), other original cosponsors of the Protecting Local Business Opportunity Act include Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), David Vitter (R-La.) and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.). ###
09.04.2015	09.04.15 Rounds, Thune Request Extension of Comment Period on Proposed DOL Rule “The public and stakeholders must be given ample time to review new regulations promulgated by federal agencies, especially one of this magnitude.” WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to Secretary of Labor Tom Perez requesting a 60-day extension to the public comment period on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on overtime rules announced in July by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL). “This massive regulation impacts millions of people, yet your department has only provided 60 days for public comment,” the senators wrote. “The public and stakeholders must be given ample time to review new regulations promulgated by federal agencies, especially one of this magnitude. In 2003, the Department of Labor introduced a proposal that was only 37 pages in length compared to this year’s 100-page proposal, yet it allowed for a more transparent 90-day public comment period.” Full text of the letter can be found below: The Honorable Tom Perez Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue Northwest Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Perez: We are writing to request a 60-day extension to the public comment period on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) on overtime rules announced by the U.S. Department of Labor on July 6, 2015. This rule would extend overtime to salaried employees and could significantly alter the labor market dynamics in industries across the country. The 60-day comment period, which expires on September 4, 2015, is simply not long enough. Currently, salaried workers earning more than $455 per week are exempt from overtime. The proposed regulation would raise the exemption to $984 per week, meaning over 6 million new workers will be eligible for overtime wages. These proposed overtime rule changes will almost double the amount of people that qualify for overtime pay by increasing the individual salary threshold beyond $50,000, which may lead to unintended consequences on businesses in a variety of industries across the country. This massive regulation impacts millions of people, yet your department has only provided 60 days for public comment. The public and stakeholders must be given ample time to review new regulations promulgated by federal agencies, especially one of this magnitude. In 2003, the Department of Labor introduced a proposal that was only 37 pages in length compared to this year’s 100-page proposal, yet it allowed for a more transparent 90-day public comment period. Employers and others affected by this rule change deserve the opportunity to weigh this regulatory expansion of overtime pay and evaluate how it will affect their employees and weekly working hours, but this takes time. A 60-day extension would provide more time for responses to be included in the public record and allow for greater public involvement. We appreciate your consideration on this matter and look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, ###
08.09.2018	08.09.18 Selection Process for United States Senate Youth Program is Underway WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) announced the annual statewide selection process for the United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) has begun. Two South Dakota high school juniors or seniors will join student delegates from around the country to participate in the USSYP’s 57th annual Washington Week, which will take place March 2-9, 2019, in Washington, D.C. “Participating in the U.S. Senate Youth Program is a great way for students to learn firsthand about the way our federal government works,” said Rounds. “I encourage any South Dakota high school student who has an interest in learning more about policy making and public service to apply to this unique, educational program.” “This program provides the opportunity of a lifetime for young leaders from South Dakota to get a firsthand look into the inner workings of the U.S. government,” said Thune. “On top of spending a week in the thick of the action in Washington, students participating in USSYP will also receive a scholarship to help further their educational pursuits. I encourage all student leaders across the state to apply.” Each of the student delegates will receive a $10,000 undergraduate college scholarship and an all-expense paid trip to Washington, D.C., for next year’s program. During their trip to Washington, student delegates will visit Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon, and the Supreme Court, among other locations, and will meet with policymakers, which in the past have included members of Congress, the president, and cabinet secretaries. Students interested in applying for next year’s program can find more information by visiting the South Dakota Department of Education website or by contacting Mark Gageby (mark.gageby@state.sd.us), the South Dakota selection administrator, or their school’s principal. The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, September 21, 2018, and the names of the students who have been selected will be formally announced in December. ###
08.20.2015	08.20.15 Rounds Nominates Bethany Christian Services as 2015 Angels in Adoption PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his nomination of Bethany Christian Services of Eastern and Western South Dakota for the 2015 Angels in Adoption Award presented by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCAI). Bethany Christian Services of Eastern (Sioux Falls) and Western (Rapid City) South Dakota have been helping connect children and families through foster care, domestic and international adoption for more than 25 years. “It is a privilege to nominate Bethany Christian Services for the Angels in Adoption award,” said Rounds. “Their relentless dedication to finding children loving and supportive families is admirable. Every child deserves a forever home, and Bethany Christian Services is committed to that cause. I have talked to families going through the adoption process with Bethany, and have heard nothing but positive, fulfilling experiences. Bethany Christian Services connects loving parents with children who need them, making families whole.” Each year, Members of Congress are invited to nominate an outstanding family or organization from their district to receive an Angels in Adoption award. Bethany Christian Services is invited to join other Angels in Adoption nominees from around the country at an awards banquet in Washington, D.C., later this year. CCAI is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe and loving homes through adoption. For more information, visit www.angelsinadoption.org. ###
08.11.2015	08.11.15 Rounds Announces Military Academy Day in Rapid City PIERRE, S.D. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his office is hosting a Military Academy Day in Rapid City so students can learn more about the academy enrollment process at our nation’s military academies. “Our nation’s academies offer an opportunity to serve our nation while receiving a top-notch education,” said Rounds. “The purpose of Military Academy Day is to provide students a one-stop opportunity to learn more about each of the academies and the application process. I encourage interested students and their families to attend.” Military Academy Day Saturday, September 12, 2015 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. MT Surbeck Center South Dakota School of Mines & Technology 501 E. Saint Joseph St. Rapid City, SD 57701 Military Academy Day is an informational seminar for students and their parents interested in attending one of the five service academies: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. For more information about Military Academy Day or the academy nominations process, contact Michele Mustain at michele_mustain@rounds.senate.gov or call Rounds’ Sioux Falls office at (605) 336-0486.
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Rounds, King Introduce Bill to Give Small Businesses, Community Banks and Credit Unions a Say in CFPB Decision Making PIERRE—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, and U.S. Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), introduced legislation to make certain small businesses, community banks and credit unions will always have a strong voice in the rulemaking process at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). S. 1963, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Board Enhancement Act, would create a new small business advisory panel within the CFPB and make permanent community bank and credit union panels within the Bureau. It would also require each committee to adequately represent members from rural and underserved areas. “As the CFPB continues to make decisions that affect every American, it is critical for rural areas, community banks, small businesses and credit unions to have a voice,” said Rounds. “This is particularly important in rural states like South Dakota. Our bill makes certain that voice will be heard.” “Small businesses, community banks and credit unions are invaluable forces in America’s economy, and they deserve a seat at the table as the CFPB makes important and far-reaching financial decisions,” said Senator King. “Rural communities in Maine, South Dakota, and all across the nation rely on these institutions to create jobs and grow the local economy. I’m proud to stand with Senator Rounds, my fellow former governor, on behalf of rural America.” The CFPB is an independent agency created by Dodd-Frank responsible for consumer protection of the financial sector. It currently has four advisory groups that help it set policy, though only one – the Consumer Advisory Board – is required by Dodd-Frank. This bill codifies two existing advisory boards, the Community Bank Advisory Council and the Credit Union Advisory Council, and creates an additional advisory committee for small businesses. In addition, the bill would require each committee to adequately represent members from rural or underserved areas. The bill is supported by the Independent Community Bankers of America, the American Land Title Association, and the Credit Union National Association, among other groups. Similar legislation, H.R. 1195, passed the House of Representatives in April of 2015. ###
08.06.2015	08.06.15 Rounds Commemorates 75th Anniversary of Sturgis Motorcycle Rally in Congressional Record PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today commemorated the 75th Anniversary of the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally taking place this week in Sturgis, South Dakota. Rounds’ recognition has been submitted to the Congressional Record, the document that reflects the official proceedings of Congress. Remarks as printed in the Congressional Record: STURGIS 75TH ANNIVERSARY Mr. ROUNDS. Today I wish to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally taking place this week in Sturgis, South Dakota. No single week in the entire year boasts a greater influx in the state's overall population than the week of the annual event the first week of August. During that week, motorcyclists gather together in perhaps the largest bike gathering of all time. This year, more than one million visitors from across the world are estimated to attend the rally – more than the entire population of South Dakota. What began as a single motorcycle race in 1938, the weeklong rally takes place in the small town of Sturgis in the Black Hills of Western South Dakota, a normally quiet town with a population of just over 6,000. During the week of the rally, however, Main Street Sturgis evolves into a platform for chrome, leather and denim where motorcycle enthusiasts and other tourists come to enjoy like-minded company, various forms of entertainment, the South Dakota landscape and local food and grub. The economic impact of the rally is impressive. A study conducted by the Rally Department of the City of Sturgis gauged the economic impact of the 2010 rally, which hosted 466,000 attendees, as generating roughly $817 million dollars in economic activity for the state. That is just in one year. And not just the city of Sturgis benefits. Though the rally only lasts a week, the magnificence of the state often compels visitors to stick around even longer. Many attendees travel to South Dakota weeks before the rally begins or extend their stay afterward to travel our state and take in its beauty and many tourist attractions. With the Black Hills National Forest, Badlands National Park, Mount Rushmore National Monument, and the Crazy Horse Memorial all within driving distance, visitors can experience the buzzing commotion of bikers and chrome one day and the pristine beauty of South Dakota's Black Hills the next. The contrast is captivating, and it boosts economic activity throughout the region. By all accounts, this year has been no different. It appears the 75th Annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally is already off to a great start, and it could very well be a record-breaking year. Rally week is always an exciting time to be in South Dakota, and I wish everyone attending this year’s rally a safe, happy and fun-filled trip. Congratulations to everyone who has worked to make the rally a world-renown event over the past 75 years. I wish our state and the city of Sturgis many more successful years of hosting the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally.
08.06.2015	08.06.15 Rounds, Thune Introduce Bill to Strengthen Military Families’ Right to Self-Protection PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, and U.S. Senator John Thune (R-S.D.), today introduced legislation to allow military spouses to purchase handguns in the state where their husband or wife is permanently stationed for duty, or in a neighboring state if the military spouse commutes across state borders to their duty installation. The Protect Our Military Families’ 2nd Amendment Rights Act was introduced in the House of Representatives earlier this year by Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA-02). “At a time of increased threats on military bases and to members of our Armed Forces, it is as important as ever to give military families the opportunity to protect themselves and their loved ones,” said Rounds. “Our men and women in uniform – and their families – make incredible sacrifices to keep our country safe; allowing them to keep their families safe is the least we can do.” “When our men and women in uniform answer the call of duty, sometimes at a moment’s notice, it is not just the servicemember who is impacted,” said Thune. “For many military families whose parent or spouse changes duty stations, the move could result in a new home, job, or school. We should be doing all we can to make life safer and easier for these military families who sacrifice a great deal for America. Our servicemembers and their families should not have to forfeit any of their rights in order to protect ours.” Current law restricts citizens from legally purchasing a handgun in any state other than the one in which they reside. An exception to this law was made for active duty service members who are on permanent duty station orders, so that they can be considered a resident of the state in which they are assigned. Our legislation extends that exemption to their spouses as well. Other cosponsors include Sens. Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) and Mike Crapo (R-Idaho). ###
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Rounds Applauds EPW Passage of ARENA Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, applauded the committee’s passage today of the bipartisan Affordable Reliable Energy Now Act (ARENA). Rounds is an original cosponsor of the ARENA Act, which is the principal legislative vehicle in the Senate to roll back President Obama’s “Clean Power Plan” rule that was issued earlier this week. “The President’s so-called ‘Clean Power Plan’ will result in higher electricity rates, fewer jobs and greater uncertainty surrounding the electric grid- all with little environmental benefit,” said Rounds. “It could also threaten the livelihood of South Dakota’s only coal-fired plant at Big Stone, which is already in the midst of a $400 million EPA compliance upgrade. The ARENA Act is a common sense solution that gives states additional time and flexibility to comply with new rules. It also protect taxpayers from bearing the brunt of the rule through higher electric bills. I’m pleased that it passed out of committee and look forward to debating the ARENA Act in the full Senate this fall. The American people are rightly frustrated with the administration’s continued regulatory overreach that is leading to fewer jobs, lower paychecks and less economic certainty.” The ARENA Act, which takes into account EPA’s proposed regulations for both new and existing power plants, also requires EPA to submit to Congress a report describing the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions the “Clean Power Plan” is expected to reduce, and to conduct modeling to show the impacts of the rule on the climate indicators used to develop the rule.
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Rounds Reaffirms Commitment to Repeal Pay Ratio Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today reaffirmed his commitment to repeal the pay ratio rule embedded in Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is voting today to adopt the pay ratio rule. “The pay ratio rule is a waste of time, effort and money, and the SEC is misguided in voting to adopt this duplicative, unnecessary rule,” said Rounds “Repealing the pay ratio rule – as my legislation seeks to do – would allow companies to find more productive uses of their time and money so they can invest in the future and create jobs. I will work to move it forward in the legislative process.” The statute requires the SEC to promulgate a rule requiring companies to disclose the pay ratio of their CEO compared to a company’s median workers. Section 953 is not only redundant because CEO pay is already public, it would also cost businesses millions of dollars in compliance costs.
08.04.2015	08.04.15 Thune, Rounds Introduce Legislation to Authorize Permanent Land Transfer for Expansion of Black Hills National Cemetery Similar Land Transfers Have Occurred at the Minuteman Missile Site and Wind Cave National Park WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced the Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act, legislation to facilitate a permanent land transfer of approximately 200 acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land to expand the Black Hills National Cemetery outside of Sturgis. “All of the agencies that are involved in this process want to see a permanent land transfer between BLM and the Black Hills National Cemetery,” said Thune. “This transfer is neither controversial nor unprecedented, so I hope our legislation moves through the Senate swiftly so the transfer process can begin as soon as possible. This expansion will help ensure that we can continue to honor our veterans with a dignified burial in the beautiful Black Hills National Cemetery for generations to come.” “This permanent land transfer guarantees that generations of veterans will be able to rest peacefully in the Black Hills National Cemetery,” said Rounds. “I’m hopeful that this noncontroversial proposal will move quickly through Congress.” Under current law, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act limits transfers like this one to a lifespan of 20 years. The Black Hills National Cemetery Boundary Expansion Act would make this particular transfer permanent.
08.04.2015	08.04.15 Rounds Opening Statement at Oversight Hearing on “Sue and Settle” WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, provided the following opening statement at today’s hearing, entitled “Oversight of Litigation at the EPA and FWS: Impacts on the U.S. Economy, States, Local Communities and the Environment.” The purpose of the hearing is to hear testimony on litigation against the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and its impact on the regulatory process and the environment as well as implications of subsequent regulations on the economy, states, and communities. Rounds’ Opening Statement as Prepared for Delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting today to conduct a hearing on “Oversight of Litigation at EPW and Fish and Wildlife Service: Impacts on the U.S. Economy, States, Local Communities and the Environment.” Today, we are meeting to hear testimony on the impact environmental litigation has on the economy, states and communities. Both the Clean Air Act and the Endangered Species Act contain provisions allowing for citizens to file a “citizen suit” against a regulatory agency to assure an agency’s compliance with federal statutes. While originally well-intentioned, these citizen suits are being used to perpetuate what is often referred to as a “sue and settle” process that overwhelms regulatory agencies, resulting in settlement agreements and consent decrees requiring agencies to promulgate major regulations within an arbitrarily imposed timeline. These agreements are often negotiated behind closed doors, with little to no transparency or public input. Although the ultimate parties responsible for the regulations are the states and regulated entities, they have been nearly completely cut out of the process and are not consulted about the practical effects of the settlement agreement. Public comments from the states and industries regarding the feasibility or impact of these regulations are routinely ignored. Further, these citizen suits allow Non-Government Organizations – or NGOs – and the Administration to advance their own policy agenda while circumventing the entire legislative process and Congress. As a result, major regulations that cost billions of dollars, stifle economic growth and inhibit job creation are being made by unelected bureaucrats in Washington who think that they know what is best for everyone. Under the Clean Air Act, citizen suits have been used to impose major regulations without any input from Congress and little to no input from the states. A study by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce found that EPA reconsideration of the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards could cost up to $90 billion annually to comply with – making it the most expensive regulation in history. Further, states have been so entirely shut out of the process that their opposition is rarely given serious consideration. When the EPA promulgated sulfur dioxide regulations, every single state that commented about the regulation voiced its opposition. But rather than working with the states to address their concerns, the EPA ignored their comments and moved forward with the regulation. Additionally, the Fish and Wildlife Services is in the middle of potentially listing more than 250 species as endangered or threatened on the Endangered Species List. Called one of the largest federal land grabs in modern times, this is the result of a mega-settlement between the Fish and Wildlife Service and NGO’s that intentionally overwhelmed the agency with listing petitions simply so they could sue the Fish and Wildlife Service for failing to meet statutory deadlines. Because the Fish and Wildlife Service is now bound to court imposed deadlines to make these listing decisions, the agency is rarely inclined to engage states, industries and landowners in real conservation efforts. As a result, these listings exemplify heavy-handed federal regulation rather than serious collaborative efforts to conserve and recover species. The impact of these lawsuits is being especially felt in South Dakota, where our only coal plant, the Big Stone plant, is in the midst of a $400 million dollar upgrade to comply with EPA’s regional haze rule. This project is not even completed yet, and now this plant may not even be able to operate at all in order to comply with the Administration’s Clean Power Plan. The “sue and settle” process has resulted in regulations that stifle innovation and hurt the future of this country by crushing the can-do American spirit that founded our nation, settled the West, won two world wars and put a man on the moon. I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us here today and I look forward to hearing your testimony. ###
08.03.2015	08.03.15 Rounds Votes to Protect Taxpayers from Paying For Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today voted in favor of S. 1881, legislation he cosponsored to redirect funds from Planned Parenthood to community health centers. “Recent videos of Planned Parenthood officials causally and cold-heartedly discussing the sale of body parts of unborn children is reprehensible. I thank Majority Leader McConnell for bringing legislation to redirect funds from Planned Parenthood up for a vote this evening, and I thank my colleagues who have taken the lead on this important issue. I am pro-life and I do not support taxpayer dollars funding an organization that performs abortions and illegally sells the body parts of unborn children. It is sickening. “Part of our job as members of Congress is to vote our conscience when it comes to moral issues. This is clearly a moral issue that must be addressed. There are many other options – other than Planned Parenthood - for delivering important services to women. I will continue to oppose federal funding of Planned Parenthood.”
08.03.2015	08.03.15 Rounds Statement on Obama’s Coal Tax Plan WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today issued the following statement on President Obama’s so-called “Clean Power Plan” final rule, which was issued earlier today: “Once again, the Obama Administration is stretching the limits of the law far beyond what Congress intended to impose sweeping new mandates at the expense of American families,” said Rounds. “This plan will result in higher electricity rates for every single household and job creator in America. Additionally, energy production will be reduced, bringing further uncertainty surrounding the electric grid - all with little environmental benefit. The rule could also threaten the livelihood of South Dakota’s lone coal-fired plant at Big Stone, which is already in the middle of a $400 million compliance upgrade. “The so-called clean power plan is yet another example in which American families are being forced to suffer the consequences of this Administration’s overreaching, over-burdensome agenda without any input or recourse for policies they disagree with. “Congressional frustration with these types of regulations underscores the need for a bipartisan approach to address executive overreach, regardless of party affiliation. The RESTORE Resolution, which we introduced earlier this year, along with its House companion, would lead to a permanent solution to regulation without representation. It reinforces Congressional oversight as part of the rulemaking process.” Earlier this year, Rounds sponsored The Affordable Reliable Energy Now Act (ARENA), the principal legislative vehicle in the Senate to roll back the Clean Power Plan. The Senate EPW Committee is scheduled to mark-up ARENA on Wednesday. More information about RESTORE is available HERE.
07.31.2015	07.31.15 Rounds Actively Working to Defund Planned Parenthood Signs onto Legislation to Completely Defund Organization PIERRE—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after another video surfaced of Planned Parenthood executives discussing the sale of unborn babies’ body parts. He has cosponsored several bills to defund the organization. The Senate will vote on legislation to defund Planned Parenthood on Monday. “Four videos have now surfaced of Planned Parenthood officials talking casually and cold-heartedly about the sale of body parts of unborn children. The behavior displayed by agency officials in the videos is disgusting and morally reprehensible,” said Rounds. “Planned Parenthood should never have been receiving taxpayer dollars. I will work to stop federal funds from going to this organization immediately.” Legislation Rounds Has Cosponsored To Defund Planned Parenthood: S. 1861 would eliminate nearly $500 million of taxpayer funding each year to Planned Parenthood. S. 1877 would require a special prosecutor to be appointed by the DC Circuit Court of Appeals for the purpose of investigating Planned Parenthood’s alleged violation of federal law, including changing or delaying abortion procedures for the sole purpose of harvesting fetal tissue and selling fetal tissue for profit. The legislation would also rescind federal funding to Planned Parenthood as a means to pay for this special investigation and would also authorize the investigation of any other organization that funds or conducts abortions. S. 1881 would defund Planned Parenthood while preserving federal funding for women’s health services, including relevant diagnostic laboratory and radiology services, well-child care, prenatal and postpartum care, immunization, cervical and breast cancer screenings and referrals. Funds no longer available to Planned Parenthood will continue to be offered to other eligible entities to provide such women’s health care services. In addition, Rounds joined 49 of his colleagues in a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell to draw attention to the legal, ethical and policy issues raised by the footage and urge her to cooperate with ongoing and future investigations into these questions. Planned Parenthood receives roughly $1.4 million tax payer dollars every day, according to their 2013-2014 annual report. The Senate is scheduled to vote on S. 1881 on Monday, August 3, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. ET.
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Rounds Joins Effort to Give Military Retirees the Honor They Deserve WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services Committees, today signed onto legislation to honor as veterans, National Guard and Reserve retirees who served honorably for a minimum of 20 years but do not meet the active duty service requirement to qualify them as veterans under existing law. The bipartisan, bicameral Honor America’s Guard-Reserve Act of 2015 was introduced earlier this year by Sens. John Boozman (R-Ark.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) and Rep. Tim Walz (D-Minn.). “National Guard and Reserve members who have selflessly served in the defense of our nation deserve to be honored for their service,” said Rounds. “These men and women took an oath to defend our nation at any cost and stood ready to deploy to fulfill that oath at a moment’s notice. Giving them that recognition is the least we can do.” Current law defines a veteran as servicemen and women who have served on active duty. This legislation would amend this definition and allow these Guard and Reserve retirees to be recognized as a veteran. Some retired National Guard and Reserve members did not serve on active duty and therefore, despite having devoted a portion of their lives to our national defense, are not recognized as veterans. Because no additional benefits beyond the title of veteran are extended to these retirees, there is no cost associated with this legislation. This legislation is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS) and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS). The House of Representatives passed similar legislation last Congress.
07.22.2015	07.22.15 Rounds Joins 49 Senators on Letter to HHS Secretary Concerning Planned Parenthood Practices WASHINGTON-- U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined 49 senators today in a letter to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell following the release of footage by the Center for Medical Progress depicting senior Planned Parenthood Federation of America executives discussing in gruesome detail the organization’s role in the harvesting of the organs of unborn babies. In the letter, the senators draw attention to the legal, ethical and policy issues raised by the footage and call on Burwell to cooperate with ongoing and future investigations into these questions. “The footage raises a number of questions about the practices of the organization, including whether they are in compliance with federal laws regulating both the use of fetal tissue and partial-birth abortions,” the senators wrote. “In addition to questions about Planned Parenthood’s compliance with applicable federal law and medical ethics, we believe the footage prompts important policy questions surrounding the issue of abortions permitted so late in a pregnancy – sometimes even later than 5 months – that an unborn baby’s organs can be identified and harvested.” The senators also requested that the Secretary confirm the commencement or immediate initiation of “a thorough internal review of the compliance of the Department and Planned Parenthood – one of the Department’s grantees – with all relevant and applicable federal statutes, regulations, and other requirements.” Full text of the senators’ letter can be found here. The complete list of the 50 senators who signed the letter is as follows: Senator Lamar Alexander Senator Kelly Ayotte Senator John Barrasso Senator Roy Blunt Senator John Boozman Senator Richard Burr Senator Shelley Moore Capito Senator Bill Cassidy Senator Dan Coats Senator Thad Cochran Senator Bob Corker Senator John Cornyn Senator Tom Cotton Senator Mike Crapo Senator Ted Cruz Senator Steve Daines Senator Mike Enzi Senator Joni Ernst Senator Deb Fischer Senator Jeff Flake Senator Cory Gardner Senator Lindsey Graham Senator Orrin Hatch Senator John Hoeven Senator Jim Inhofe Senator Johnny Isakson Senator Ron Johnson Senator James Lankford Senator Mike Lee Senator Joe Manchin Senator John McCain Senator Mitch McConnell Senator Jerry Moran Senator Rand Paul Senator David Perdue Senator Rob Portman Senator James Risch Senator Pat Roberts Senator Mike Rounds Senator Marco Rubio Senator Ben Sasse Senator Tim Scott Senator Jeff Sessions Senator Richard Shelby Senator Dan Sullivan Senator John Thune Senator Thom Tillis Senator Pat Toomey Senator David Vitter Senator Roger Wicker
07.22.2015	07.22.15 Rounds, Thune Send Letter to Appraisal Foundation Chair Regarding Decrease in Real Estate Appraisers WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to the Appraisal Foundation Board of Trustees Chair, Anthony Aaron, regarding the decreasing number of real estate appraisers in the United States. “Real estate appraisers play a significant role in the process of purchasing a home and more broadly in the housing market. It is critical that the growth and development of this increasingly important profession remains a priority,” the senators wrote. “We are concerned that this decrease in real estate appraisers will primarily impact homeowners and prospective homebuyers in rural and underserved areas making it more difficult to buy or sell a home.” Full text of the letter: -- Mr. Anthony Aaron Board of Trustees Chair The Appraisal Foundation 1155 15th St. NW Suite 1111 Washington, DC 20005 Dear Mr. Aaron: Real estate appraisers play a significant role in the process of purchasing a home and more broadly in the housing market. It is critical that the growth and development of this increasingly important profession remains a priority. According to the Appraisal Institute, the number of residential appraisers declined nearly 19 percent between 2007 and 2014. Surveys of former appraisers point to several reasons for this decline, including increasing regulatory burdens and volatile business climate that make it infeasible and unattractive to take on the added risk of trainees. As a result, young people do not see many job opportunities as appraisers today.[1] We are concerned that this decrease in real estate appraisers will primarily impact homeowners and prospective homebuyers in rural and underserved areas making it more difficult to buy or sell a home. For example, in South Dakota, 65 percent of appraisers are 51 or older. According to the Appraisal Institute, the average age for an appraiser in the United States is 55 years old. A lack of new appraisers coupled with aging professionals in the industry poses risks to both the appraisal industry and the housing market. The Appraisal Foundation was authorized by Congress to set minimum appraisal licensing standards which could then be enhanced by state licensing entities. As one of the entities, including state governments, authorized by Congress as a source of standards and qualifications, it is critical for Congress to make certain that the Foundation is properly fulfilling its role. To examine this issue, please answer the following questions and provide the documents requested: The Appraisal Foundation recently promulgated standards requiring a bachelor’s degree for an individual to obtain State Certified Residential or State Certified General credentials. This regulation completely discounts practical experience. For example, a real estate professional may have over thirty years of experience with real property but under these new standards this individual will be considered unqualified. By contrast, a recent college graduate with a degree in a field unconnected to the appraisal industry and with no appraisal experience would be considered qualified to apply to become an appraiser. Did the Appraisal Foundation consider real world experience in crafting this rule? If so, why did the Foundation opt not to create a pathway for membership based on practical real-world experience? If not, why not? The Appraisal Foundation also created a trainee program for applicants requiring them to work for a certified appraiser. To become a certified appraiser, a trainee must complete 3,000 hours of experience in less than two and a half years including 1,500 hours of non-residential work. Many appraisers, particularly in rural areas, are hesitant to train a future competitor and the shortened time window makes it difficult for trainees who work part time. As a result, we are concerned that the trainee program is responsible for creating an artificial appraiser shortage. What efforts has the Foundation made to create alternate paths to certification for trainees who are unable to find an apprenticeship or unable to complete the hour requirement in the time allotted? If an applicant is unable to find a certified appraiser willing to train them within their home community, what options are available to them if they would like to become an appraiser? Part of the Appraisal Foundation’s mission is to certify continuing education classes for the appraisal community. These certifications are made through the Foundation’s Appraiser Qualifications Board (AQB). To meet what the Foundation termed a lack of continuing education options, the Foundation recently created a separate non-profit arm to provide continuing education to the appraisal community. When this association, the Alliance for Valuation Education (AVE), was created, the Foundation pledged it would be an independent entity to avoid conflicts of interest. However, in 2014 the AQB’s Administrator of Qualifications, who also serves as the AVE’s Staff Executive, applied to herself at the AQB in order to have one of her classes certified. Her application was approved. Does AVE’s continuing relationship with AQB raise conflict of interest concerns? If so, what steps is the Foundation taking to make certain that these conflicts of interest are addressed? If not, why not? For certified appraisers, what is the average cost per year for continuing education? Please provide the total number of licensed appraisers and the average age of the appraiser population nationally and in each individual state. Please provide the total number of individuals who became licensed appraisers in each year from 2010 to 2014. We agree that high quality standards in this industry must continue to be a priority. At the same time, we believe it is important to assess appraiser education and training requirements, standards, and qualifications to make certain we strike the appropriate balance to make certain rigorous standards exist while making the profession attractive and accessible for individuals interested in the field. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please provide a response by July XX, 2015. If you have any questions, please contact Chris Lucas at 202-224-5842 for Senator Rounds and Jessica McBride for Senator Thune at 202-228-5429 if you have any questions. Sincerely, M. Michael Rounds John Thune U.S. Senator U.S. Senator Cc: The Appraisal Subcommittee [1] U.S. Appraiser Population survey, Appraisal Institute, January 20, 2015.
07.22.2015	07.22.15 Rounds Applauds Committee Passage of Critical VA Accountability Reforms WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today applauded the committee’s passage of several pieces of legislation aimed at increasing accountability at the scandal-ridden Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and improving veterans’ benefits and health care. “We have a duty to make certain the VA is properly managed so they can provide timely, quality care to our nation’s greatest heroes,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee came together to pass meaningful reforms to the VA system. I will continue to work to keep the VA accountable. Our veterans deserve better than the current structure.” The committee approved comprehensive accountability measures – the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability Act of 2015and a bill to prohibit the VA from granting bonuses to employees found guilty of misconduct – that seek to protect both veterans and taxpayers. In addition, the committee today voted unanimously to approve the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015 to boost veterans’ disability compensation to adjust for rising costs of living. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability Act of 2015 (S.1082) gives the secretary of the VA firing authority over any delinquent employee within the department. This legislation seeks to expand on a provision included in the Veterans’ Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 that gave the secretary firing authority over senior executives in light of the wait-time scandal that erupted in Phoenix, Ariz. The second accountability measure passed by committee was S.627 to prevent the VA from awarding bonuses to negligent employees. The bill also gives the VA authority to rescind bonuses paid out to employees who are later found to have violated a department policy or law. Additionally, the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs approved the 21st Century Veterans Benefits Delivery and Other Improvements Act (S.1203), an omnibus bill that includes several provisions to improve veterans’ health care and streamline veterans’ benefits services. Each of the bills approved by the committee will now be reported favorably to the full Senate.
07.21.2015	07.21.15 Rounds, Blunt Introduce Bill to Allow Community Banks to Better Serve Rural Areas WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, and U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), today introduced legislation to support and strengthen lending in local communities. The Community Bank Access to Capital Act of 2015 would roll back burdensome financial regulations to make it easier for community banks to serve their customers, who often reside in rural areas with fewer lending options. “Community banks are the lifeblood of small businesses and economic activity in South Dakota and other rural areas,” said Rounds. “Relieving community banks from unnecessary regulatory burdens will increase credit access for South Dakota families across the state. With more than 6,500 community banks in the U.S., the federal government must make sure they are helping – not hindering – their ability to grow and support their communities.” “Community banks are an integral part of Missouri’s economy and the communities they serve,” Blunt said. “These banks often are the primary lenders to small businesses and farmers across the state. The Community Bank Access to Capital Act of 2015 gives our local banks relief from burdensome financial regulations, allowing them to better serve and meet the needs of local businesses which will lead to investment and economic growth in communities in Missouri and nationwide.” The Community Bank Access to Capital Act of 2015 would: exempt community banks with $50 billion or less in assets from the Basel III capital rules; increase the Small Bank Holding Company Policy Statement qualifying asset threshold from $1 billion to $5 billion; exempt publicly held community banks with less than $1 billion in assets from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal control attestation requirements; allow savings and loan holding companies to use the Securities and Exchange Commission’s new deregistration and registration thresholds; and preserve current Securities and Exchange Commission rules regarding the definition of “accredited investor.” Earlier this year, the Community Bank Access to Capital Act of 2015 was introduced in the House of Representatives by Scott Garrett (R-N.J.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government-Sponsored Enterprises. It is supported by the South Dakota Independent Community Bankers (ICBA) and national ICBA.
07.21.2015	07.21.15 Rounds: I'm Disgusted by Planned Parenthood's Actions WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after a second video has surfaced of a Planned Parenthood executive discussing the organization’s operation of selling body parts of aborted children. “I’m disgusted at Planned Parenthood’s disregard for the sanctity of human life. This is further proof that the organization should not be receiving taxpayer dollars. I support a full and thorough investigation of this appalling situation.”
07.16.2015	07.16.15 Rounds Applauds Senate Passage of Education Reauthorization Bill WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today applauded the Senate passage of the bipartisan Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA), which included his Native American education amendment. It passed 81-17. “I’m pleased the Senate came together to pass this important education reform bill,” said Rounds. “The Every Child Achieves Act lets states and local school boards decide the best curriculum for their students. ECAA eliminates ‘one-size-fits-all’ mandates and removes burdensome waiver requirements that have plagued our education system. Passage of the ECAA is a win for parents, teachers, state and local governments and most importantly, students.” The ECAA passed out of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee unanimously earlier this year. It replaces No Child Left Behind, which expired in 2007. It allows states to set their own academic standards and will end the federal government’s ability to mandate or incentivize states to adopt or maintain any particular set of standards.
07.15.2015	07.15.15 Rounds to VA: You Can’t Balance Your Budget on the Backs of Homeless Veterans WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald asking for more information regarding the announced closure of the Homeless Veteran Outreach Center in Sioux Falls. In June, the Center - which has served more than 1200 veterans - was notified that its contract would not be renewed. According to news reports, the contract was not renewed in an effort to make up for a $7 million budget shortfall this year. “It is disheartening to see the VA cut programs that make a difference in our veterans’ lives at the same time the agency is plagued with mismanagement,” wrote Rounds in the letter. “As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, protecting our most vulnerable veterans is a priority for me. I am open to work with you to reduce waste in the VA and find savings within the bureaucratic system. However, I am not supportive of balancing the VA’s budget on the backs of homeless veterans.” Full text of the letter: -- July 15, 2015 The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: I write concerning the closure of Homeless Veteran Outreach Center (Center) in Sioux Falls, SD. The Center, run by the Volunteers of America of the Dakotas is of vital importance to homeless veterans in Sioux Falls and must not be allowed to close. The Center offers laundry, shower facilities, job search assistance, treatment rooms, food and internet access for homeless and at-risk veterans. In the last four years, the Center has served more than 1,200 individual veterans. These services have been made possible by building community partnerships with churches, Veteran Service Organizations, concerned stakeholders and contribution from the Sioux Falls Veterans Affairs (SFVA) to protect our most vulnerable veterans. Although the Center has provided exceptional service and has become an integral part of many veterans’ lives, the SFVA plans to stop funding the service. In April 2015, the Center was notified that the contract would be renewed. However, in June the Center received another letter stating the contract will not be renewed. According to local news reports the SFVA is trying to address a $7 million shortfall this fiscal year. Reportedly, the SFVA will save $180,000 by canceling its contract with the Center. On June 26, 2015, I requested an explanation regarding the contract cancellation. I have yet to receive a response. In the meantime, reports of the contract cancellation have been construed as due to budget cuts within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Or more specifically, as a budgeting error where the VA underestimated the demand of health care services. It is very frustrating to see this because Congress has increased the VA’s budget by 73% since 2009 as well as allocating an additional $15 billion under the Veterans Choice Act to help address the needs of our veterans. It is disheartening to see the VA cut programs that make a difference in our veterans’ lives at the same time the agency is plagued with mismanagement. The Denver hospital is $1 billion over budget. There have been reports from the Inspector General of $54 million in potentially fraudulent purchases of prosthetics in New York. Another VA Inspector General report cites the misappropriation of $43 million by VA officials. I respectfully request the VA look at their bureaucratic inefficiencies for savings rather than reducing services for our nation’s veterans. As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, protecting our most vulnerable veterans is a priority for me. I am open to work with you to reduce waste in the VA and find savings within the bureaucratic system. However, I am not supportive of balancing the VA’s budget on the backs of homeless veterans. Thank you for your attention to this matter and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, M. Michael Rounds United States Senator
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Rounds Alarmed by Obama’s DoD Nominee’s Response to Nuclear Deal with Iran WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today at a hearing questioned General Paul Selva, Pres. Obama’s nominee to be Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, regarding the Iran nuclear agreement announced early this morning. Just hours after the agreement was announced, Selva confirmed that Iran is still the leading sponsor of terror and that sanctions relief could be used by the Iranians to sponsor terrorism if they choose to do so. Transcript of the Exchange: Rounds: “You identified as one of those four existential threats, the country of Iran. In your view, is Iran still the leading state sponsor of terror?” Selva: “Yes, sir, they are.” Rounds: “With the proposed nuclear [agreement], which was announced this morning, if Iran is provided economic sanctions relief, do you believe Tehran would use some of these funds to enhance its nuclear capabilities and support for terrorist organizations?” Selva: “Senator I haven’t yet had the opportunity to study the entire agreement, but on its face from what I’ve heard from the press, the immediate lifting of sanctions, or the sequential lifting of sanctions will give Iran the access to more economic assets with which to sponsor terrorism should they choose to do so. I think we need to be alert to that possibility…” Video of the exchange is available HERE. In response, Rounds issued the following statement: “Now that an agreement has been reached, Congress will carefully consider the deal based on its merits,” said Rounds. “I’ve said all along that anything short of stopping the Iranians from ever obtaining a nuclear weapon is unacceptable. Based on what we know so far, it appears this deal not only fails to meet this essential goal, it emboldens the Iranians, who will receive $150 billion in sanctions relief, a phased out lifting of a UN arms embargo and be allowed to test more advanced centrifuges over 10 years. Today’s testimony from General Selva confirms that under this deal, Iran will have the ability to continue funding terrorism, thereby increasing terrorist activity throughout the world.” Top Preliminary Areas of Concern regarding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): As the world’s leading country of state-sponsored terrorism, if Iran receives the sanctions relief outlined in this agreement, Iran will be empowered to increase funding for terrorist organizations. According to President Obama, under this agreement, all UN arms embargo provisions against Iran will be lifted permanently in five years, including the export of nuclear-and-missile-related goods as well as a ban against Iran participating in ballistic missile development in eight years. This will occur after the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) verifies Iran’s nuclear compliance with the agreement. A robust inspection regime requires an anytime, anywhere policy. This deal falls short of that requirement. Instead, if the IAEA requests access to an undeclared location under the JCPOA agreement, Iran can delay access to the facility for two weeks or longer with the outlined multi-step process for undeclared locations. This timeframe may provide ample opportunity to conceal covert activity. Under the preamble of the JCPOA agreement, the United States and other countries in the agreement recognize and legitimize Iran’s right to nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. This is extremely concerning given their untrustworthy track record and history of covert nuclear activity. The JCPOA allows Iran to research and develop more advanced centrifuges, as well as retain the possession of all nuclear-related equipment. In short, the JCPOA may simply delay the inevitable: it places Iran as a threshold nuclear state.
07.09.2015	07.09.15 Rounds Selected for Key Defense Committee Role WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has been appointed as a conferee to the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Committee. The NDAA is the major defense legislation considered by Congress each year. The Conference Committee is tasked with reconciling differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Last month the NDAA passed the Senate with broad bipartisan support and included a number of Rounds’ provisions. “I’m pleased to be a member of the NDAA Conference Committee,” said Rounds. “Enactment of the NDAA is essential to give our troops the resources they need. As a member of the Conference Committee, I will work with my colleagues to provide our Armed Forces with the tools necessary to accomplish their demanding and dangerous missions at a time of rising threats around the world.” Other Senate conferees include Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.), the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Jack Reed (D-R.I.), the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee, James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Tim Kaine (D-Va.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.).
07.09.2015	07.09.15 Rounds Introduces Bill to Repeal Costly and Unnecessary Dodd-Frank Provision WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today introduced legislation to repeal the “pay ratio” rule embedded in Section 953 of the Dodd-Frank law. The statute requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to promulgate a rule requiring companies to disclose the pay ratio of their CEO compared to a company’s median workers. Section 953 is not only redundant because CEO pay is already public, it would also cost businesses from $73 million to more than $700 million in compliance costs. “Repealing the pay ratio rule would allow companies to find more productive uses of their time and money so they can invest in the future and create job opportunities,” said Rounds on the Senate floor today. “The money has to come from somewhere to pay for the new compliance systems required to follow this rule, taking away much-needed capital from businesses which could otherwise invest money growing their businesses and creating job opportunities. It is a waste of time, effort and money. The legislation I introduced today simply strikes this rule in Dodd-Frank.”
07.08.2015	07.08.15 Rounds Applauds Passage of his Native American Education Amendment WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today applauded the passage of an amendment he offered with U.S. Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) to improve education of Native American students. The amendment to the Every Child Achieves Act, which is currently being debated on the Senate floor, addresses low graduation rates at tribal schools and seeks to improve the quality of education in Indian Country, especially in rural and high poverty areas. “The fact that there are tribal schools in this country with graduation rates below 40 percent is unacceptable,” said Rounds. “A strong education system in Indian Country is crucial for Native American students. Our amendment lays a foundation to fix the systemic education problems facing students in Indian Country, not only in South Dakota but throughout the nation. I am pleased that it received broad bipartisan support in the Senate.” Rounds’ amendment to the Every Child Achieves Act directs the Department of the Interior and the Department of Education to conduct a study in rural and poverty areas of Indian Country to: Identify federal barriers that restrict tribes from implementing common-sense regional policies instead of one-size fits all policies directed from Washington; Identify recruitment and retention options for teachers and school administrators; Identify the limitations in funding sources and flexibility for such schools; and Provide strategies on how to increase high school graduation rates.
06.29.2015	06.29.15 Rounds Presents Congressional Gold Medal to Jeffries Family RAPID CITY—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today presented the Congressional Gold Medal to the family of the late Vernon Roy Jeffries of Rapid City for his service as a Civil Air Patrol (CAP) pilot during World War II. “Vernon Jeffries’ dedication to his country is clearly evident,” said Rounds. “It’s an honor to present his family with the Congressional Gold Medal today. Vernon was one of three founding members of the Civil Air Patrol from South Dakota. He volunteered to fly small, single-engine, fabric-covered aircraft out to sea off the New Jersey coast to spot Nazi U-Boats. Vernon knew that his mission was dangerous, yet he never backed down from the challenge. His selfless service to his nation should be a lesson to all of us as we continue to fight new enemies who threaten our security and freedom.” The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award in the United States. It is awarded to those who have performed an achievement that has an impact on American history and culture that is likely to be recognized as a major achievement in the recipient’s field long after the achievement. Today’s presentation represents the third time a Congressional Gold Medal was awarded to a South Dakotan. The two previous awards were presented to the families of John Gibson Rae Jr., and Earl Wilkinson.
06.26.2015	06.26.15 Rounds, Gillibrand Lead Bipartisan Letter to Obama on Israel WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) today led 22 Senators in a bipartisan letter to President Obama urging him to continue to reinforce the United States’ unwavering commitment to Israel. The letter encourages the administration to continue the U.S.’s long-standing policy of focusing on negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians as they work toward a long-term, viable solution leading to two states living side by side in peace and security. It calls unattributed comments by U.S. officials regarding a unilateral move of U.S. peace efforts to the United Nations Security Council an unacceptable change in U.S. policy. “At a time of increasing instability in the Middle East, with Israel’s right to exist as a nation under continual threat and denial by its neighbors, our support is as critical as at any point in history,” the Senators wrote. “We ask you to continue to support Israel’s efforts to find peace and security and to deny any Palestinian efforts to circumvent direct negotiations with Israel through counter-productive unilateral actions at the United Nations. “We strongly believe that the only viable path to resolution of the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is through direct negotiations that lead to two states living side by side in peace and security. We respectfully urge your Administration to continue to maintain this long-held U.S. policy by focusing on getting the two parties back to negotiations and continue to oppose Palestinian efforts to bypass a negotiated solution and challenge Israel’s legitimacy through membership in the UN and other international bodies.” On May 22, 2015, Obama made the following statement while addressing the congregation at Adas Israel, a prominent synagogue in Washington, D.C.: "It would be a moral failing on the part of the U.S. government and the American people, it would be a moral failing on my part if we did not stand up firmly, steadfastly, not just on behalf of Israel's right to exist, but its right to thrive and prosper... [T]o a young man like me, grappling with his own identity, recognizing the scars of race here in this nation, inspired by the civil rights struggle, the idea that you could be grounded in your history, as Israel was, but not be trapped by it, to be able to repair the world - that idea was liberating. The example of Israel and its values was inspiring." In addition to Rounds and Gillibrand, the letter was signed by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), John Thune (R-S.D.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Shelley Moore Capito (R – W.V.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Susan Collins (R-Maine), Mark Warner (D- Va.) and Mark Kirk (R-Ill.). Full text of the letter: June 26, 2015 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to you today in response to your welcomed recent remarks at Congregation Adas Israel reaffirming your unshakeable commitment to Israel's security. We urge you to continue to reinforce these words with United States' actions in support of Israel in the international community. As you know, Israel and the United States have a long and storied relationship dating back to President Truman’s recognition of the State of Israel on its day of independence. Since that day in 1948, the U.S. and Israel have been vital allies. At a time of increasing instability in the Middle East, with Israel’s right to exist as a nation under continual threat and denial by its neighbors, our support is as critical as at any point in history. We ask you to continue to support Israel’s efforts to find peace and security and to deny any Palestinian efforts to circumvent direct negotiations with Israel through counter-productive unilateral actions at the United Nations. United States support for Israel at the United Nations is and has always been critical. From support for the UN partition agreement in 1947 to U.S. leadership against the 1975 General Assembly Resolution 3379, which equated Zionism with racism, and its eventual repeal in 1991, to more recent attempts by your Administration to block one-sided Palestinian efforts to circumvent the peace process, the United States has always stood strong in support of Israel at the UN, including through the critical use of its veto. We are, therefore, deeply concerned by previously reported and unattributed comments by U.S. officials that the U.S. might change its approach to the peace process at the United Nations Security Council. We strongly believe that the only viable path to resolution of the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is through direct negotiations that lead to two states living side by side in peace and security. We respectfully urge your Administration to continue to maintain this long-held U.S. policy by focusing on getting the two parties back to negotiations and continue to oppose Palestinian efforts to bypass a negotiated solution and challenge Israel’s legitimacy through membership in the UN and other international bodies. A unilateral move of U.S. peace efforts between Israel and the Palestinians exclusively to the United Nations Security Council is an unacceptable change in U.S. policy. Ultimately, the only path to lasting peace and security is direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. As such, the United States has a critical role to play in facilitating these direct negotiations. Thank you for your serious consideration.
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Rounds Statement on King v. Burwell Decision WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement after the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) federal subsidies as constitutional: “Today’s decision doesn’t change the fact that the Affordable Care Act is fatally flawed. From increased insurance costs to website glitches and canceled coverage for millions, this law has hurt our economy and millions of American families. The ACA was a hastily-written law crafted behind closed doors, with little regard for its negative effects on families or on our economy. The result was an unworkable law that is unsustainable, unaffordable and saddled with glitches." “South Dakotans want – and deserve – truly patient-centered health care that delivers secure, affordable care and a competitive, open market that encourages innovation. The Affordable Care Act fails on all these fronts. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to repeal and replace this flawed, government-run health care plan. Our goal is to secure affordable services in a competitive market.”
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Rounds Applauds Committee Passage of Six Year Highway Bill WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today applauded the committee’s passage of a six-year surface transportation reauthorization bill, the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy (DRIVE) Act. “A healthy economy is dependent on a strong, safe and vibrant transportation system that allows us to move people, goods and commerce with ease. Roughly $20 billion in goods are transported on South Dakota roads each year. The DRIVE Act recognizes the important role roads in rural states play in our national economy. It will also provide states increased flexibility in making decisions and managing their transportation networks. I applaud my colleagues for working together on a comprehensive, bipartisan highway bill that will provide long-term certainty for state and local governments. This will allow them to plan their transportation projects more efficiently.” Background: Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy (DRIVE) Act Fully-funds highway programs for 6 years: The bill reauthorizes the Federal-aid highway program at an increased funding level for six years, from FY 2016 through FY 2021. Maintains formula program structure and increases the amounts each state will receive each fiscal year. Increases support for core formula programs: The existing consolidated core highway program structure from MAP-21 is maintained, including: the National Highway Performance Program; the Highway Safety Improvement Program; the Surface Transportation Program; and the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program. Prioritizes bridges and large, nationally-important facilities: The bill dramatically increases the funding that must be spent on projects to maintain and repair bridges off of the National Highway System, as these bridges often struggle to find a reliable funding stream. The bill also shifts additional revenue towards the Interstate System and the National Highway System to address the significant maintenance backlog on those facilities. Requires Highway Trust Fund transparency: The legislation includes new provisions to improve the transparency of how and where transportation projects are selected and funded, to make certain that stakeholders and the public have faith in the integrity of highway programs and the use of federal tax dollars. The improved transparency provisions will provide to the public better accountability on how the Federal Highway Administration is utilizing their administrative appropriations as well as progress towards achieving national goals and improving federal reviews of highway projects. Accelerates project delivery and increases flexibility Building on the reforms in MAP-21, the bill continues to accelerate the project delivery process while protecting the environment and public health. New reforms would improve collaboration between the lead agency and the participating agencies, allow for greater reliance on documents prepared during the planning process, and reduce duplication between agencies involved in the federal environmental review and permitting process. Expands flexibility and opportunities for infrastructure investment in rural areas The bill provides increased flexibility to best fit the needs of rural states and local governments. It offers new options to bundle small projects together to increase efficiencies and take advantage of procedures often difficult to utilize for rural projects. It empowers states to work with DOT to develop ways to effectively utilize flexibilities for small projects, including rural road and bridge projects to better respond to community needs. Funds Federal Lands and Tribal Transportation Highway Programs The bill increases funding levels for these programs to support maintenance and construction of roads and bridges on tribal and federal lands. The bill also authorizes funds for nationally significant federal lands and tribal transportation projects, recognizing that there is a significant maintenance and repair backlog on these facilities. Maintains State and Metropolitan Transportation Planning The bill maintains the statewide and metropolitan planning processes to continue the development towards a performance-based approach to transportation decision making.
06.18.2015	06.18.15 Rounds Applauds Senate Passage of NDAA Bill to Support our Troops WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded the Senate’s passage of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016, which included a number of provisions he offered. Rounds’ provisions to protect B-1 bombers from premature retirement and improve the health care of our service members, military retirees and their families were included in the final NDAA passed by the Senate.‎ “I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to pass legislation to provide our Armed Forces with the tools they need to successfully complete their missions and protect our nation,” said Rounds. “In these dangerous times for our country and the world, our troops deserve our full support.” “I’m also pleased that five provisions I offered were included in the final NDAA. I thank my colleagues for supporting these common sense provisions.” The NDAA also included amendments Rounds offered to help develop the Air Force’s new bomber, improve the Pentagon workforce that develops new weapons and help states and localities if they are targets of cyber-attacks.
06.11.2015	06.11.15 Rounds Encourages Support of Bipartisan Defense Bill WASHINGTON —U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today spoke on the senate floor to encourage his colleagues to support the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016. “I’m proud of my colleagues who serve with me on the Armed Services Committee for coming together to achieve a truly bipartisan, comprehensive bill,” said Rounds on the senate floor. “Our bill will support our troops and meet the demands of a military that needs to continue its dynamic evolution in the face of ever more sophisticated threats. “I was pleased that a number of provisions I offered were included in the final package that we are debating today. Now that we’ve completed our work in committee and Leader McConnell has brought our bill to the full Senate for debate, we must come together to pass the NDAA as the Senate has done each year for more than five decades.” Text as Prepared for Delivery: I rise today to encourage my colleagues to join the bipartisan group of Armed Services Committee members who support an important measure for our troops. Last month we overwhelmingly voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016 that the Senate is considering today. The defense of our nation is a fundamental responsibility of the federal government, and the annual passage of the NDAA is an important step in making sure our service members have what they need to succeed. These brave men and women selflessly sacrifice everything to keep us safe from the forces of darkness who wish to do us harm. We owe it to these men and women to wisely work together to make certain they have the necessary tools to accomplish their dangerous and demanding missions. And that is what we did in the Armed Services Committee just a few weeks ago. Under the leadership of Chairman McCain and Ranking Member Reed, we reported a bill out of committee that not only supports our armed forces but makes a host of needed reforms. And we did so overwhelmingly, by a bipartisan vote of 22 to 4. I would like to cite a number of bill provisions which make our nation stronger, and which I hope congress and the president will enact into law. Our bill cuts nearly $10 billion in wasteful and duplicative spending, thereby freeing up additional funds to develop and procure weapon systems of the future while also giving our troops in combat the tools they need today. The bill also makes important reforms aimed at recruiting and retaining the all-volunteer force that has so consistently defended our country for over four decades. The Armed Services Committee produced this legislation by using the limited and admittedly less than optimal funding tools at its disposal. For now, the hand we are dealt to fund the defense of our country is limited by the Budget Control Act, which includes arbitrary spending caps and the threat of sequestration. So in our bill, we are funding our armed forces using funds from the “Overseas Contingency Operations” account. We are doing so at a level above that requested by the President for this account. OCO was included in the Budget Control Act because members of the 112th Congress recognized the importance of funding our men and women on the front lines. I believe that many members of the senate fervently hope that in the near future we will be able to fund our government in a fiscally-sound manner without the irrational budget caps and threat of sequestration that pervades all of Congress’s budgetary deliberations. And I am willing to work with any of my colleagues on either side of the aisle to fix the Budget Control Act. But until that day comes we need to use what funding options we have to keep America safe. Our legislation does that. We are following the rules that are in force today. I’m proud of my colleagues who serve with me on the Armed Services Committee for coming together to achieve a truly bipartisan, comprehensive bill. Our bill will support our troops and meet the demands of a military that needs to continue its dynamic evolution in the face of ever more sophisticated threats. And I was pleased that a number of provisions I offered were included in the final package that we are debating today. Now that we’ve completed our work in committee and Leader McConnell has brought our bill to the full Senate for debate, we must come together to pass the NDAA as the Senate has done each year for more than five decades. It is no coincidence that the NDAA is the only legislation to achieve this track record. Rather, it indicates the vital importance that generations of senate members have attached to it. The defense of our country is not a partisan issue. Our bipartisan NDAA bill sustains what our service members need to succeed in a world that grows ever more dangerous. From Russian aggression in Ukraine and mounting Chinese coercion in Asia to the ugly aggression of the self-proclaimed Islamic State in the Middle East, new threats continue to rise throughout the world. These threats are multi-faceted, our enemies’ tactics ever-changing. We must make certain our armed forces can continue to face these challenges and we must uphold our commitment to them. I encourage my colleagues to pass the NDAA in the Senate, and I encourage our president to work with congress to keep Americans safe.
06.10.2015	06.10.15 Rounds Applauds EPW Passage of Bill to Roll Back ‘WOTUS’ WASHINGTON —U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today applauded the committee’s passage of bipartisan legislation to curb the effects of the administration’s ‘Waters of the U.S.’ (WOTUS) rule. The Federal Water Quality Protection Act, of which Rounds is an original cosponsor, would prevent the rule from taking effect and task the agencies with completely redrafting the rule using specific direction from Congress. “Freeing Americans from burdensome regulations such as WOTUS has been a priority of mine since taking office,” said Rounds. “The final rule goes far beyond what Congress ever intended to be a navigable waterway under the Clean Water Act and could lead to dramatic new regulatory costs for landowners across the nation. Our bill would require EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers to go back to the drawing board and work with the ag community and state and local governments when determining which water features should be under federal jurisdiction and which should be left under state or local jurisdiction.”
06.09.2015	06.09.15 Rounds Cosponsors Obamacare Replacement Plan WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD) joined his colleagues in introducing the Patient Freedom Act, a conservative response to protect millions of Americans who are at risk of losing their health care coverage following the Supreme Court’s ruling in King v. Burwell. The Patient Freedom Act, introduced by Sen. Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), lowers costs, eliminates mandates, gives states the power and puts patients in control of their health care. “The Administration has no plan to protect the American people if the Supreme Court rules against Obamacare’s healthcare subsidies, a decision that could come any day now,” said Rounds. “For 19,000 South Dakotans, that means lost federal healthcare subsidies and up to a 178 percent increase in their health care premiums. Our legislation, carefully crafted by Dr. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, is a long-term solution that is patient-centered and puts states back in the driver’s seat. It provides states with the flexibility, funding and control to determine the best health care plan for their needs and rids them of Obamacare’s federal mandates.” Original cosponsors include Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX), Sens. David Vitter (R-LA), Dan Coats (R-IN), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Jim Inhofe (R-OK). A companion bill will be introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Dr. Ralph Abraham (R-LA). View legislation HERE and see more information below. Overview The Patient Freedom Act is a market-based solution that gives patients the power by lowering costs, eliminating mandates, returning power to states over insurance, and giving patients knowledge. Doing nothing is not an option King v. Burwell will be decided this month and Republicans need a plan Americans expect Congress to have an Obamacare alternative for the 5-10 million people impacted Under the Patient Freedom Act, states have three options: Continue Obamacare and establish a state exchange Do nothing while 5-10 million people lose their health care Enact the Patient Freedom Act – choosing conservative, free market health care solutions This plan lowers costs by repealing unpopular Obamacare federal mandates, including: Individual mandate Employer mandate Federal essential health benefits mandate The Patient Freedom Act ensures health care dollars go directly to the patient: States could choose to receive this funding through either a per capita patient grant or a federal tax credit, depending on the state’s preference However, unlike under Obamacare, this funding goes DIRECTLY to patients Patients are empowered: Patients receive their money through a Health Savings Account (HSA), empowering patients to make the best decision for them and their families HSAs are reformed to allow patients to use their health care dollars for more options Patients have the power of portability, protection and price transparency: Patients can move between health insurance plans without penalty each year Those with pre-existing conditions are protected Providers must publish a cash price for services reimbursed from HSAs, empowering patients to make informed decisions
06.04.2015	06.04.15 Rounds Cosponsors Legislation to Increase Veterans' Benefits WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today joined Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-Ga) and other senators in introducing legislation to increase veterans’ disability benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015 (S.1493) would increase the rates of VA disability compensation, dependency compensation for surviving children and spouses, and the clothing allowance for veterans based on rising costs of living. “Our nation’s veterans sacrifice everything to protect and defend our country,” said Rounds. “With costs rising on everything from groceries to healthcare, our vets and their families deserve to have their compensation and benefits adjusted accordingly.” This cost-of-living adjustment, which is equal to the amount of the adjustment given to Social Security recipients, is determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index on a yearly basis. The cost-of-living adjustment for veterans would go into effect on December 1, 2015. Other original cosponsors of the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015 include the ranking Democrat on the Senate VA committee, Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., Sens. Jerry Moran, R-Kan., John Boozman, R-Ark., Dean Heller, R-Nev., Bill Cassidy, R-La., Thom Tillis, R-N.C., Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska, Patty Murray, D-Wash., Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, Jon Tester, D-Mont., Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii and Joe Manchin, D-W.V.
06.03.2015	06.03.15 Rounds Criticizes EPA Proposal to Radically Alter Ozone Standards WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), today at a hearing questioned Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposal that would dramatically alter ozone standards in the U.S. “This hearing was especially important to understand the impacts of what could be the most costly regulation ever imposed on the American people,” said Rounds. “These regulations could force South Dakotans to pay to control ozone emissions that could have originated thousands of miles away overseas or are naturally occurring in our environment. It could impact the ability of businesses to expand and construction projects to continue, without achieving any tangible health benefits beyond the current standard. It’s not based in common sense. “Once again, EPA proves why it’s necessary to pass my RESTORE resolution, which would bring much-needed congressional oversight to the sweeping, costly regulations being imposed by federal agencies. As a member of the Senate EPW Committee, I will continue efforts to prevent these dramatic, costly new ozone standards from taking effect.” Under current law, the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for Ground-Level Ozone is to be reviewed every five years. The current standard is 75 parts per billion, set in 2008. Under EPA’s current proposal, the standard would be lowered to 65-70 parts per billion. These new standards could be the most expensive regulations in history, with projected costs of $1.7 trillion and 1.4 million in lost jobs. EPA is expected to issue a final ruling in October 2015.
06.03.2015	06.03.15 Delegation Supports Gov. Daugaard’s Request for Disaster Declaration WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today urged President Obama to declare a Major Disaster Declaration for Individual Assistance for South Dakota counties affected by the May 10, 2015, storm and EF-2 tornado, during which nine people were injured and 57 homes were damaged – including 27 that were completely destroyed. “We respectfully request that you declare a major disaster for the relevant areas of our state and that you instruct federal agencies to expedite the delivery of all forms of federal disaster assistance for which the state is eligible based upon that declaration,” the delegation wrote. “We would be pleased to offer any assistance that you may require in fulfilling this request.” Full text of the letter can be found below: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: As members of the South Dakota Congressional delegation, we write to express our full support of Governor Dennis Daugaard’s request for a Major Disaster Declaration for Individual Assistance for the South Dakota counties of Douglas and Charles Mix. This declaration would greatly assist in recovery efforts from a severe storm and tornado event that occurred on May 10, 2015. As the Governor’s request described, on May 10, 2015, an EF-2 tornado with a width of 400 yards and peak winds of 130 mph touched down in southeast South Dakota. The tornado’s primary point of impact was the City of Delmont, which suffered significant damage leaving 9 people injured and damaging 57 homes, of which 27 were considered completely destroyed. The local fire department was destroyed, and for two days the entire city was without power and water. Forty-one percent of the City of Delmont’s residential structures were damaged, the majority of which have major damage or are completely destroyed. The Delmont community has a small population of 234 residents. Following this incident, 89 percent of the population was voluntarily evacuated due to hazardous power lines, leaking propane tanks, and other debris. Affected residents are still unable to return to their homes and are living in campers, renting temporary housing and staying in hotels. The nearest city capable of providing housing resources is 40 miles away, forcing displaced residents to move for long periods of time, significantly increasing commute times for work and school. These factors may eventually force citizens to relocate if the situation cannot be remedied. The local Emergency Operations Center (EOC) was opened immediately following this tornado, along with the state EOC. The Governor has taken the appropriate action under state law, directing the execution of a State Emergency Operation Plan. Affected counties have also issued disaster declarations. The South Dakota Office of Emergency Management has coordinated resources to aid local government response, the details of which are outlined in the Governor’s request for a Major Disaster Declaration for Individual Assistance. We respectfully request that you declare a major disaster for the relevant areas of our state and that you instruct federal agencies to expedite the delivery of all forms of federal disaster assistance for which the state is eligible based upon that declaration. We would be pleased to offer any assistance that you may require in fulfilling this request. Thank you for your prompt consideration of this important matter. Please do not hesitate to contact any of us if we can provide you with additional information. Sincerely,
06.03.2015	06.03.15 Delegation Urges USDA to Take Responsibility for Pautre Fire WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and U.S. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today urged the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Forest Service (FS), and Office of General Counsel (OGC) to finally take responsibility for the Pautre fire that beginning on April 3, 2013, consumed standing grass on more than 10,000 acres of public and private pasture land, and damaged and destroyed fences, bales of forage, buildings, and trees. “We strongly urge you to recognize and quickly take responsibility for the negligence that resulted in this out-of-control fire and ensuing damages, and that you timely resolve and approve all reasonable claims,” the delegation wrote. “Twenty-six months is ample time for USDA, FS, and OGC to investigate and make necessary determinations.” Full text of the letter can be found below: Secretary Tom Vilsack U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack: On April 3, 2013, the U.S. Forest Service (FS) conducted a prescribed burn located southeast of Hettinger, North Dakota on the Grand River Ranger District of the Dakota Prairie Grassland. This prescribed burn was intended to cover 130 acres of dead crested wheatgrass; however, due to the unsafe hot, dry, and windy conditions present at the time of ignition the fire (known as the Pautre Fire) quickly escalated out of control and consumed more than 10,000 acres of FS land, grazing association controlled land, and private land. Along with the grass and rangeland destroyed, fences, bales of forage, buildings, and trees were also damaged and destroyed by this fire; and cattle confined to the smoke created by this fire suffered respiratory damage. As you are aware the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) provides claimants two years from the date of an incident to submit claims against the government. The FTCA generally holds the federal government liable when federal employees commit acts of negligence in the course of their employment. Twenty-six months have elapsed since date of the Pautre Fire, yet to our knowledge no action has been taken by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), FS, or Office of General Counsel (OGC) to accept liability and process claims. We strongly urge you to recognize and quickly take responsibility for the negligence that resulted in this out-of-control fire and ensuing damages, and that you timely resolve and approve all reasonable claims. Twenty-six months is ample time for USDA, FS, and OGC to investigate and make necessary determinations. Sincerely,
06.02.2015	06.02.15 Rounds Delivers Maiden Speech on Senate Floor WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D., today delivered his maiden speech on the Senate floor to discuss the bipartisan RESTORE Resolution, which seeks to free Americans from overregulation. RESTORE would establish a Joint Select Committee to conduct a comprehensive review of rules enacted by federal agencies and analyze the feasibility and options for creating a rules review process in congress. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Madam President, I rise today, for the first time speaking in this chamber, to discuss the future of our great nation. How truly fortunate we are to live in the greatest country in the world. We are protected by the best military that has ever existed, and that in turn allows us to live freely here at home to focus on our God-given rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In my home state of South Dakota, we cherish these rights. We have the opportunity to make our dreams come true because we have these rights, and because we have a common-sense value system to guide us. When I was elected, I promised to bring South Dakota common sense to Washington and to work to solve problems for the good of every South Dakotan and every American. But, unfortunately Madam President, when I travel back home, I continue to hear from my fellow South Dakotans about the federal government infringing on these rights and values. You see, our great nation has been bogged down in recent years with what I believe is one of the greatest hindrances to job growth and economic productivity. And that is the overregulation of our citizens. Madam President, overregulation is not a Democrat or Republican issue; it’s an issue that affects every one of us. But I believe it’s a challenge that we can solve through cooperation and perseverance. It doesn’t matter if you’re talking about a doctor, a small business owner, a farmer or a rancher; overregulation has affected every sector of our society. The regulatory burden on this country is nearly two trillion dollars annually, and this is in addition to the tax burden already placed on Americans. That regulatory burden is larger than Canada’s entire economy. In fact, this cost to comply with federal regulations is larger than the entire G-D-P of all but only 8 other countries in the world. Even more staggering, just a few years ago, we surpassed 1 million federal regulations in America. One million. Regulations are stifling economic growth and innovation and hurting the future of this country by crushing the can-do American spirit that founded our nation, settled the West, won two world wars and put a man on the moon. And every year, more than 3,500 new federal regulations are added. This just doesn’t make sense and it’s certainly not South Dakota common sense What alarms me is not only the volume of regulations being thrust upon our citizens, but also the process for creating them. The purpose of Congress is to be the voice of the people when making laws. Unfortunately, the voice of the people in the rulemaking process has been cut out, and replaced by unelected government bureaucrats who think they know better than the farmer or scientist or the entrepreneur. Our founders recognized the need for making laws, granting the power to create laws to Congress; and only Congress. They meant that process to be difficult so that our government wouldn’t overburden its citizens and restrict their freedom; freedom they had just fought so hard to obtain. Through Congress, every citizen should have a voice. But, unfortunately, Madam President, that is not what is happening today. Our founding fathers created 3 branches of government with checks and balances for each. They could never have imagined that we would have a regulatory process in place today where unelected bureaucrats would both write and have the final approval of the rules and regulations under which the people must live. This regulatory regime – which is responsible for the 3,500 new rules each year – has essentially become a fourth branch of government and a de-facto legislative body. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that these bureaucrats in Washington have this misperception that they know how to run our lives better than we do. While working as a business owner, a state legislator, as a governor and now a United States Senator, I’ve seen just how detrimental this “Washington knows best” mentality is on the daily lives of South Dakotans and Americans. Many of my friends - on both sides of the aisle - have come to the Senate floor in recent weeks and months with some great ideas and legislation to limit, stop, repeal or remove some of the worst regulations currently on the books. I applaud them for these efforts, many of which I also support. And I look forward to working with the Senior Senator from South Dakota, my friend Senator John Thune, as well as anyone who is willing to work with me to remove these burdens that are stunting American greatness and bring a little South Dakota common sense back to our regulatory environment. The regulatory system has run amuck. Too often, Madam President, burdensome, costly and intrusive regulations are crafted by bureaucrats at the highest level of government, behind closed doors, with little input from everyday Americans who disproportionately feel the effects of these one-size fits-all policies. It is regulation without representation, and it is wrong. The American people are being squeezed out, their voice falling on deaf ears in Washington. Small businesses, which drive our economy and create the majority of jobs in America, are especially hurt by overregulation because they, too, have to hire lawyers and employees to comply with these rules. This takes away capitol that could be used to hire new production employees and expand their business. People in my home state of South Dakota feel victimized by their own federal government. It is keeping crops from getting to market, and it’s keeping our businesses from growing. The idea that unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats should be allowed to make sweeping rules and regulations with no recourse should be a concern to every American, regardless of political affiliation….because it impacts everyone. No party has a lock on the American dream and American innovation doesn’t have a party affiliation. From the stack of paperwork required to process a bank loan to the regulatory price of putting food on the table, the cost of federal regulations are ultimately passed down to each and every American. Without excessive regulation, imagine how much more money American families could have in their pockets to spend on what they want, instead of what the government wants. If we cut our red tape, families can stop having to cut their budgets. The regulatory regime is a dark cloud over our entire economy. Now, I’m not saying there isn’t a place for rules in our society. Rules are meant to keep us safe and promote the greater good. And, I do believe there are some good rules and regulations on the books. The problem I have is with the bad rules that keep good people from going about their lives. Unfortunately, there are too many of these bad rules that are hindering our freedoms and stifling growth. These are the regulations that we must reexamine. So today, Madam President, I come to the floor to discuss legislation to permanently end regulation without representation. It takes a giant leap forward in restoring the people’s role in the rulemaking process, and provides a way to reexamine the bad ones. After all if the American people don’t like the laws we make, they can vote us out. But they have no such power with unelected bureaucrats. They’re stuck! You see, Madam President, the legislation I am introducing today would create a Joint Select Committee on Regulatory Reform whose purpose includes reviewing regulations currently on the books and proposing a new rules review process that includes the elected representatives of the American people. It’s rooted in South Dakota common-sense and the principles that have made this country great—making government work for Americans rather than against them. This committee would then make several recommendations to congress to rebalance this broken regulatory scheme: First, the committee would be tasked with exploring options for Congress to review regulations written by agencies before they are enacted, providing much-needed oversight through the possibility of a Permanent Joint Rules Review Committee, which would be tasked with reviewing rules with a cost of $50 million dollars or more. This Permanent Joint Rules Review Committee would have the ability to delay the imposition of these rules for not more than one year from the time the agency submits the rule for review to enable Congress to act on that rule. Second, the Committee would examine an option for agencies to submit each regulation with a $50 million dollar impact or more to the appropriate committees of Congress for review – before the rule is enacted. And finally, the Joint Select Committee could recommend ways to reduce the financial burden regulations place on the economy as well as sunsetting onerous and outdated ones. This Joint Select Committee would not be a permanent one – but it would be bipartisan, bicameral and hold meaningful hearings so that a permanent solution to our overregulation problem can be properly addressed. This legislation also offers a starting point for the committee by requiring certain possible solutions to our regulatory problem to be considered. I firmly believe that regulations should be reviewed by elected officials – those who are accountable to the American people through the democratic process. This is not a new concept; it is a common practice at the state level. 41 of the 50 states, including my home state of South Dakota, have a rules review process to make sure the executive branch is faithfully executing the laws they seek to implement. It is worth repeating that regulations are estimated to cost $1.88 trillion annually in the United States – above and beyond the tax burden our citizens already share. That amounts to just under $5 billion dollars every single day. And it just doesn’t make sense. It is unfair to those who still believe in - and are working to achieve the American Dream. Whether Americans are seeking to buy a car, take out a mortgage on a house, start a business or see the doctor to make sure they are in good health, regulations obstruct them. When I think of those who sacrificed everything so that our children and grandchildren could create their own version of the American Dream, I think about the freedoms and liberties they fought so bravely for. They fought so we could pursue life, liberty and happiness and trust that our government would not hinder these lifelong endeavors. It is not Washington that will continue to make this country great, but rather the collective spirit of individual Americans, who want to work hard to be successful for their families and their communities. But they need the heavy hand of government to be lifted. Here in Washington, it is not our job to dictate how Americans run their lives, but to allow them to achieve their dreams, not make them nightmares. The term “Washington is broken” is a far-too-common term used to describe the current state of our federal government. “Washington” is now used in a derogatory manner. This city – the capitol of our nation – named after our very first Commander in Chief who led us to victory in the Revolutionary War and birthed this great nation – has become over time, a 4-letter word. Remember, George Washington left the presidency voluntarily after two terms in office. He wanted to get away from the monarch-style of government in which rulers held their positions for life. And now, this city that bears his name is full of lifelong bureaucrats. Even worse, they are unaccountable to the people. It is a far cry from the republic our founders envisioned. Madam President, in 2026 our country will celebrate its 250th birthday. That is just over a decade away. When we get to that point, I hope to join my fellow Americans in looking back with great pride in all we have accomplished, and all we have to pass on to future generations. President Kennedy challenged our nation to put a man on the moon before the decade of the 60’s had passed. We should commit ourselves to removing the barrier of government regulations that is weighing on that American spirit and again set free the American economy before the decade preceding our 250th birthday. I’m not just introducing legislation to start a new committee that exists in name and does no deed. Americans want us and expect us to be up to this challenge, and we can. We can lift the heavy hand of government. The founding fathers didn’t anticipate thousands of regulators and a million regulations when they created this country. It’s time to end regulation without representation and restore the lawmaking process to the people. I encourage my colleagues to sign onto this commonsense approach to addressing the issue of overregulation, so we can work to make this country even greater and safer than we found it. Then, during our 250th birthday celebration, we can be proud that we RESTORED a little South Dakota and American common sense to our children and their children. Thank you, Madam President. I yield the floor.
06.01.2015	06.01.15 Rounds Welcomes Summer Interns to Washington WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today welcomed four South Dakota college students as Summer 2015 interns in his Washington, D.C., office. Brandon Van Beek is from Beresford, SD, and is currently a student at the University of South Dakota. Brandon is majoring in political science and economics. Dustin Santjer is from Aberdeen, SD, and is currently a student at the University of South Dakota. Dustin is majoring in political science and finance. Leah Gosch is from Rapid City, SD, and is currently a student at South Dakota State University. Leah is majoring in electrical engineering. Cara Beck is from Mitchell, SD, and is currently a student at Augustana College. Cara is majoring in history and political science. Intern duties in include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Interns work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. The summer internship program in Sen. Rounds’ office lasts through August. College students interested in a Fall 2015 semester internship in the Washington, D.C. office or in one of Sen. Rounds’ state offices can visit www.rounds.senate.gov , call Connie Tveidt at (605) 224-1450, or email a resume and cover letter to connie_tveidt@rounds.senate.gov. College credit is available.
06.01.2015	06.01.15 Rounds Announces New Washington Office Location WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced that his Washington, D.C., office has moved to the Hart Senate Office Building. Effective, today, June 1, 2015, his new office location will be 502 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C., 20510. The office phone and fax numbers will remain unchanged at (202) 224-5842 (phone), (844) 875-5268 (toll free phone) and (202) 224-7482 (fax). The office hours will continue to be 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. EST. Each Wednesday at 9:00 a.m. when the Senate is in session, Rounds will continue to hold the South Dakota Sunrise Coffee for visiting groups and individuals. More information on this event can be found by calling his Washington office. In addition to his Washington office, Rounds has four district offices in Pierre, Sioux Falls, Rapid City and Aberdeen. All office locations and contact information can be found at www.rounds.senate.gov.
05.29.2015	05.29.15 Regulation without Representation The burden placed on Americans to pay for federal regulations in 2014 far exceeded the cost we paid in income taxes. According to the Competitive Enterprise Institute, Americans paid $1.88 trillion in regulatory compliance and $1.4 trillion in individual federal income taxes. These numbers should concern every one of us. Not only are regulatory costs taking money out of the pockets of South Dakota families, they are stunting economic growth and crushing the can-do American spirit that founded our nation, settled the West, won two world wars and put a man on the moon. Even more alarming, the rules and regulations are being made by unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats at the highest level of government, often behind closed doors. The individuals creating many rules that impact us are not elected and have no direct contact with those who are impacted. Our founders established three coequal branches of government with checks and balances for each. Recognizing the need for order in our society, they granted congress – whose members are elected by the people – the power to create laws. They never could have imagined today’s rulemaking process, in which unelected people in Washington have the final say in the bulk of rules under which we must live our daily lives. The regulators have essentially become a fourth branch of government and de-facto legislative body. The current system squeezes out the voice of the people in the democratic process. It’s regulation without representation, and it’s wrong. It’s time to restore the people’s role in the rulemaking process. I recently introduced a resolution in the Senate to create a Joint Select Committee on Regulatory Reform whose purpose is to review regulations currently on the books and propose a new rules review plan, one that includes elected representatives. The Regulation Sensibility Through Oversight Restoration (RESTORE) Resolution takes steps to permanently address overregulation and restore congress’ role in making certain the laws are being carried out as intended. RESTORE directs the Joint Select Committee to conduct a systematic review of rules currently on the books. It would hold meaningful hearings on the effects of current rules and look for ways to reduce, eliminate or sunset unnecessary and outdated ones. To address regulations moving forward, RESTORE would direct the committee to review and recommend one of several options giving congress a role in reviewing rules before they are enacted. This is already happening in the state legislatures of 41 states, including South Dakota. Not every rule is bad. Good rules weed out bad actors and keep us safe. But the role of the executive branch is to implement and enforce the laws as congress intended. Unfortunately, the lack of oversight has led to bureaucrats exceeding their authority and overstepping the role of the executive branch. The result is that the rules they implement are hindering our freedoms and stifling the American spirit. The goal of RESTORE is to restructure the rulemaking process, returning it to the American people so they once again have a say in the rules and regulations that affect them the most. Last year, unelected bureaucrats implemented 16 rules for every one bill that was signed into law. It is time to end regulation without representation and restore our faith in the people to make the best decisions for their families and businesses.
05.27.2015	05.27.15 Rounds Statement on WOTUS Final Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, made the following statement on the administration’s Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) final rule, which was announced today. Last month, Rounds joined his colleagues in introducing bipartisan legislation to curb the effects of WOTUS. “The WOTUS rule is a broad expansion of federal jurisdiction that infringes on private landowners’ rights throughout South Dakota,” said Rounds. “It goes far beyond what congress intended to be a traditional waterway under which EPA has regulatory oversight. Farmers and ranchers are rightly concerned about the compliance costs this misguided rule could have on their operations.” “This underscores the need for a formal process to rein in overzealous regulators to make sure the rules are following congressional intent. It is yet another example of unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats overstepping their boundaries and stretching the law – leaving the American people to suffer with the consequences. My RESTORE resolution, which I introduced last week, would lead to a permanent solution to this regulation without representation.” More information about RESTORE is available here.
05.21.2015	05.21.15 Rounds Applauds Banking Committee Passage of Regulatory Reform Bill WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, applauded today’s passage of “The Financial Regulatory Improvement Act of 2015” out of committee. “I am pleased to see this important legislation move forward,” said Rounds. “The bill passed through committee today will provide much-needed regulatory relief to the financial services industry and the consumers they serve. South Dakota’s banking industry has been hit hard by rules stemming from Dodd-Frank, spending too much time and money on regulatory compliance. Our bill seeks to roll back of some of the ‘one-size-fits-all’ regulations within Dodd-Frank - a major win for South Dakota’s financial institutions. I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will work together to pass this important legislation when it comes to the floor later this year.” The Financial Regulatory Improvement Act of 2015 would mark the biggest reform of the Dodd-Frank Act since its enactment in 2010. It includes changes to federal mortgage rules to improve borrowers’ access to credit, particularly in rural areas, and will reduce the level of risk in the financial system.
05.20.2015	05.20.15 Rounds Introduces RESTORE To Permanently Address Regulatory Reform WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced a resolution to permanently address overregulation in America. The bipartisan Regulation Sensibility Through Oversight Restoration (RESTORE) Resolution would establish a Joint Select Committee to conduct a comprehensive review of rules enacted by federal agencies and analyze the feasibility and options for creating a rules review process in congress. The committee would also hold hearings on the effects of these rules and recommend ways to reduce the regulatory burden on the American people. “The cost of federal overregulation affects every single American,” said Rounds. “It is a hidden tax that for too long, has been dictated by unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats in Washington rather than elected representatives who our founders intended to be the voice of the people. The regulators have essentially become a fourth branch of government and de-facto legislative body. It’s regulation without representation, and it’s wrong. “The cost of federal regulations last year was nearly $1.9 trillion, far more than Americans paid in individual federal income taxes. This compliance cost is crushing the can-do American spirit that founded our nation, settled the West, won two world wars and put a man on the moon. And it’s killing the American dream. RESTORE seeks to reinstate the people’s role in the rulemaking process and provides a path to eliminate the bad ones. It offers a permanent solution to overregulation in America and restores the representative democracy our founders envisioned.” Original cosponsors include Sens. Joe Manchin (D- W. Va.) John Thune (R-S.D.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Shelley Moore-Capito (R-W. Va.). Because it is a resolution, if passed by the House and Senate, RESTORE would be implemented without requiring the president’s signature. Background: The RESTORE Resolution would create a Joint Select Committee consisting of members of both the Senate and House of Representatives. The committee would: Analyze the feasibility of a permanent joint rules review committee to Review all rules causing an annual impact on the economy of $50 million or more before the rule is enacted; and Delay the imposition of rules for review to the Permanent Joint Rules Review Committee. Analyze the feasibility of requiring each federal agency to submit each proposed rule over $50 million to the appropriate committees of Congress for review before the rule is enacted. Conduct a systematic review of rules enacted by federal agencies; Hold hearings on the effects of current rules and look for ways to reduce the regulatory overreach; Submit to Congress recommendations for a process to sunset overly burdensome and unnecessary rules, as well as a process for federal agencies to submit rules to Congress for review before they are enacted; Submit to Congress recommendations for ways to reduce the financial burden these regulations place on American families; Recommend whether Congress should overturn rules by enacting a joint resolution of disapproval; and Submit a list of rules that should be repealed. By the Numbers: Federal Regulations Today 41: Number of states that currently have a rules review process that gives state legislatures a final say in the rulemaking process. (source: National Conference of State Legislatures) $1.88 trillion: Estimated annual cost of federal regulation and intervention in America annually. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) $1.4 trillion: Estimated amount Americans pay each year in individual income taxes. (source: Wall Street Journal) 2010: The year federal regulations in America passed 1 million. (source: Chief Executive) 10th: If regulation was a country, it would have the 10th largest economy in the world, ahead of India and just behind Russia. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) $15,000: The average cost of economy-wide regulations per household, which is 29% of an average family budget. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) 5.7 million: Hours spent by Americans on paperwork so far in 2015. (source: American Action Forum) 77,687: The number of pages in the Federal Register in 2014. The Federal Register is the official journal of the federal government of the United States that contains government agency rules, proposed rules and public notices. (source: Washington Free Beacon) 16 to 1: The ratio of regulations issued by unelected bureaucrats compared to new laws enacted by congress each year. In 2014, regulators published 3,554 new rules compared to 224 new laws. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) 24,000: Number of public notices and uncounted “guidance documents” annually in the Federal Register. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) 48: Percent of federal regulations stemming from the top six rulemaking agencies: Departments of Treasury, Commerce, Interior, Health and Human Services, Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) $60 billion: The combined budgets of federal regulators in 2014. (source: George Washington University) 29 percent: Average additional amount small businesses pay per-employee in regulatory costs compared to others. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) $10,585: Average cost per employee for small business with fewer than 20 employees to comply with federal regulations. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) $7,755: Average cost per employee for businesses with 500 or more employees to comply with federal regulations. (source: Competitive Enterprise Institute) 38 percent: Approximate percentage of federal resources dedicated to regulations in 2008. (source: Chief Executive) 86 percent: The number of millennial voters who favor trimming regulations. (source: American Spectator)
05.20.2015	05.20.15 Rounds Chairs Hearing on Oversight of Scientific Advisory Panels and Processes at the EPA WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today conducted a hearing on the science behind the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision-making. The hearing focused on oversight of scientific advisory panels and processes at the EPA and included a legislative hearing on S. 543, the Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015. “The EPA is supposed to rely on science as the backbone of its decision making,” said Rounds. “The agency is tasked with implementing regulations that impact every American in every state across the country. These regulations affect the water we drink, the air we breathe and the land we use. Unfortunately in recent years, EPA regulations have been driven not by science but by politics. At a time when EPA is proposing sweeping regulations that are detrimental to American families, using sound science is as important as ever.” The purpose of today’s hearing was to conduct oversight over the scientific process at EPA, EPA’s use of science, and improvements that can be made in EPA science. It also served as a legislative hearing on U.S. Sen. John Boozman’s (R-Ark.) bill, S. 543, the Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015. Click here to watch video of Rounds' opening statement
05.19.2015	05.19.15 Rounds Questions Witnesses on Misguided EPA Methodology Used in WOTUS Rulemaking Process WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works (EPW), today at a hearing questioned methods used to write the Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) proposal. Last month, Rounds joined his colleagues in introducing bipartisan legislation to curb the effects of WOTUS if it is implemented. A final rule is expected this week. “The WOTUS rule would greatly expand EPA’s authority under the Clean Water Act and could impose dramatic new regulatory costs on American farmers, ranchers and landowners,” said Rounds. “EPA came to the wrong conclusion when determining what constitutes a significant nexus of water when seeking scientific advice to expand its jurisdiction. Today’s hearing allowed me to ask questions about EPA’s methodology in proposing the WOTUS rule. With reports surfacing just this week about EPA manufacturing support for WOTUS, it is as important as ever to question the validity of their approach and intent.” Link to Video EPA and the Corps of Engineers have proposed to expand the scope of federal authority over land and water to encompass all water in a flood plain, manmade water management systems, and water that infiltrates into the ground or moves overland, and any other water that they decide has a “significant nexus” to downstream water based on use by animals, insects and birds, and water storage considerations, shifting the focus of the Clean Water Act from water quality protection and navigable waters to habitat and water supply.
05.15.2015	05.15.15 Rounds Applauds Inclusion of His B-1 Bomber and Defense Health Care Provisions in National Defense Bill WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded the committee’s passage of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included several provisions he offered. Provisions of Rounds’ bills to protect B-1 bombers from premature retirement and improve the health care of our service members, military retirees and their families were included in the final NDAA that passed out of committee. “I commend my fellow committee members on both sides of the aisle for advancing legislation that will supply our Armed Forces with the tools they need to successfully complete their missions,” said Rounds. “In these dangerous times for our nation and the world, I was pleased to see members of both parties work together effectively to advance this important legislation. “I’m also pleased that several provisions I offered to improve our defense system were included in the final package. I thank my colleagues for supporting these common sense provisions.” The NDAA also included language Rounds offered to help develop the Air Force’s new bomber and improve the Pentagon workforce that develops new weapons.
05.13.2015	05.13.15 Rounds Cosponsors Bipartisan Bill to Provide Affordable, Reliable Energy to South Dakotans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in introducing legislation that will be the principal legislative vehicle in the Senate to rollback President Obama’s “Clean Power Plan.” “As proposed, EPA’s Clean Power Plan would result in higher electricity rates, fewer jobs and uncertainty surrounding the reliability of the electric grid - with little environmental benefit, said Rounds. “It threatens the livelihood of South Dakota’s only coal-fired plant at Big Stone, which is already in the middle of a $400 million compliance upgrade. Our legislation would give states much-needed flexibility and additional time to comply with this proposal and protect taxpayers from paying the burden through higher electric bills.” A bipartisan group of six senators, led by Sen. Shelly Moore-Capito (R-W. Va.) joined Rounds at a press conference this afternoon to unveil The Affordable Reliable Energy Now Act (ARENA), which will provide reliable and affordable energy, put jobs and our economy first and curb federal overreach. Key provisions of the ARENA Act: Prevents mandates for unproven technology: Before EPA can set a technology-based standard for new power plants, the standard must first be achieved for at least one year at several separate power facilities throughout the country. The bill also prevents the EPA from using any demonstration projects –projects that are reliant on federal support – from being used to set the standard. Extends compliance dates: The bill would extend the rule’s compliance dates pending final judicial review, including the dates for submission of state plans. Holds EPA accountable: This bill would require EPA to issue state-specific model plans demonstrating how each state could meet the required GHG emissions reductions under the rule. Enables states to protect ratepayers: The bill would provide that no state shall be required to implement a state or federal plan that the state’s governor determines would negatively impact economic growth, negatively impact the reliability of the electricity system or negatively impact electricity ratepayers. Protects highway fund dollars: The bill would prevent the EPA from withholding highway funds from any states for noncompliance with the “Clean Power Plan.” The ARENA Act, which takes into account EPA’s proposed regulations for both new and existing power plants, also requires EPA to submit to Congress a report describing the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions the “Clean Power Plan” is expected to reduce, and to conduct modeling to show the impacts of the rule on the climate indicators used to develop the rule. Click here to learn more about the ARENA Act and view the bill here.
05.12.2015	05.12.15 Rounds Introduces Legislation to Streamline Tricare for Service Members and Military Retirees WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, today introduced legislation to streamline the process for service members and military retirees enrolled in Tricare health plans when they move from one Tricare region to another. The current system for transferring Tricare beneficiaries is often ineffective, resulting in unnecessary delays. “For our service members and military retirees, who have given so much while serving our country, making simple changes to streamline transfer of their health care is the least we can do,” said Rounds. “Often times, jobs within the military require our service members to move to different parts of the nation. Relocating - which includes saying goodbye to coworkers, packing one’s belongings and adapting to a new job - can be daunting enough for service members and military families. They shouldn’t have to worry about their access to health care benefits on top of everything else. My legislation seeks to simplify the transfer process and give our military families the health care certainty they deserve.” Rounds’ legislation makes changes to the Tricare program within the Department of Defense so beneficiaries can seamlessly access health care in each region through: Enacting automatic electronic transfer of enrollment information; and Facilitating beneficiaries’ ability to obtain a new primary care provider within 10 days of moving to a new region.
05.12.2015	05.12.15 Rounds Urges Senate Democrats to End Filibuster of TPA WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today voted in favor of allowing debate on Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation on the floor of the Senate. TPA would strengthen the hand of the U.S. when entering into trade negotiations with foreign nations. Despite widespread bipartisan support for TPA, the vote failed 52-45. Every president since FDR has been granted TPA through 2007. “I’m disappointed that Senate Democrats are putting politics before policy and blocking debate on TPA legislation,” said Rounds. “TPA promotes job growth here at home by allowing us to negotiate stronger, more enforceable international trade agreements that benefit our producers. As we negotiate trade deals in the Pacific region and other parts of the world, TPA will make certain that we have a strong voice in the global marketplace. In South Dakota, trade supports more than 124,000 jobs and results in billions of dollars of exports. I encourage Senate Democrats to work with us to pass TPA so we can open new markets for farmers, ranchers and business owners whose livelihoods depend on free and fair trade.” Renewing bipartisan trade promotion authority would empower our negotiators to come up with the best trade agreements possible, making certain that American priorities always come first. America hasn’t signed any new trade deals in the past five years. Meanwhile, an estimated 400 trade agreements have been implemented around the world. In the past 40 years, only one trade agreement has passed without TPA.
05.11.2015	05.11.15 Rounds Introduces Legislation to Protect B-1 Bombers at Ellsworth from Premature Retirement WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today introduced bipartisan legislation that would add Congressional oversight of any decision to retire the B-1, B-2 or B-52 bomber aircraft. The Long Range Bomber Sustainment Act of 2015 prevents the retirement of aircraft in the current bomber force unless the Department of Defense certifies that it would not result in a loss of operational capability. There are currently 27 B-1 bombers located at Ellsworth Air Force Base near Box Elder, South Dakota. “Long-range bombers play an important role in our national defense strategy,” said Rounds. “The current fleet, which is wisely stationed throughout the country, enables the United States to project military power to distant locations around the world. While we can expect some bomber retirements as we develop the new Long Range Strike Bomber, it is critical the turnover does not lead to an insufficient number of bombers in our fleet. Our Air Force must remain the most capable in the world. A strong, properly-supported bomber force will help make that happen.” Original cosponsors of the Long Range Bomber Sustainment Act of 2015 include Sens. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Bill Cassidy (R-La.).
05.07.2015	05.07.15 Rounds Praises Senate Passage of Iran Bill WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today issued the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the bipartisan Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which passed 98-1. “I’m pleased the Senate passed the bipartisan Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act today,” said Rounds. “The American people deserve to have a voice in any nuclear deal with Iran. It is important that any deal is enforceable so that we can keep Iran accountable. What’s most important though, is that Iran never be able to gain a pathway to nuclear weapons.”
05.06.2015	05.06.15 Rounds Questions FWS on Aggressive Confrontation Tactics WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today questioned Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) Director Dan Ashe about the agency’s aggressive techniques used to intimidate landowners regarding land easements. During the hearing, Rounds cited a letter he received from a South Dakota farmer who reports encountering an aggressive FWS agent he feels was using intimidation tactics regarding Waterfowl Management Rights despite proactively enacting conservation measures on his land for decades. “I’m particularly troubled that taxpayer dollars are funding this type of truly aggressive approach to citizens who are voluntarily and proactively enacting conservation measures on their own land, as they have been doing for generations,” said Rounds. Full video of his remarks is available by clicking here.
04.30.2015	04.30.15 Rounds, Colleagues Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Protect Navigable Waters in the United States WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined his colleagues in introducing the bipartisan Federal Water Quality Protection Act (S.1140). The bipartisan legislation would protect traditional navigable waters of the United States. It also protects farmers, ranchers and private landowners by directing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to issue a revised “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule that does not include things such as isolated ponds, ditches, agriculture water, storm water, groundwater, floodwater, municipal water supply systems, wastewater management systems, and streams without enough flow to carry pollutants to navigable waters. "The administration’s proposed Waters of the U.S. rule is unnecessary and yet another example of unelected bureaucrats overstepping their boundaries when it comes to rulemaking,” said Rounds. “I agree with South Dakota farmers and ranchers, who continue to tell me this rule would bog down productivity by imposing massive new regulatory hurdles. In South Dakota, our producers are already good stewards of their land – they have to be because their livelihoods depend on it. I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the Federal Water Quality Protection Act to protect South Dakota producers and put a stop to this unnecessary, burdensome and intrusive regulation.” In addition to Rounds, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act is co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-K.Y.), The Committee on Environment and Public Works Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-O.K.), Senators Roy Blunt (R-M.O.), John Barrasso (R-W.Y.), Pat Roberts (R-K.S.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.V.), Deb Fischer (R-N.E.), Dan Sullivan (R-A.K.), Joe Donnelly (D-I.N.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.V.). Background EPA and the Corps of Engineers have proposed to expand the scope of federal authority over land and water to encompass all water in a flood plain, manmade water management systems, and water that infiltrates into the ground or moves overland, and any other water that they decide has a “significant nexus” to downstream water based on use by animals, insects and birds and water storage considerations, shifting the focus of the Clean Water Act from water quality protection and navigable waters to habitat and water supply. To address these concerns and to ensure protection of water for communities across the country, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act directs the agencies to issue a revised proposal that adheres to the following principles- The Federal Water Pollution Control Act is an Act to protect traditional navigable waters from water pollution. Waters of the U.S. under that Act should include o Traditional navigable waters and interstate waters. o Streams identified on maps at the scale used by EPA to identify potential sources of drinking water. o Streams with enough flow to carry pollutants to a navigable water, based on a quantifiable and statistically valid measure of flow for that geographic area, and o Wetlands situated next to a water of the United States that protect water quality by preventing the movement of pollutants to navigable water. o Areas unlawfully filled without a required permit. Waters of the U.S. should not include o Water that is located below the surface of the land, including soil water and groundwater. o Water that is not located within a body of water (e.g., river, stream, lake, pond, wetland), including channels that have no bed, bank or ordinary high water mark or surface hydrologic connection to traditional navigable waters. o Isolated ponds. o Stormwater and floodwater management systems. o Wastewater management systems. o Municipal and industrial water supply management systems. o Agricultural water management systems. o Streams that do not have enough flow to carry pollutants to navigable waters. o Prior converted cropland. o Areas lawfully filled pursuant to a permit or areas exempt from permitting. In identifying waters of the U.S., the agencies are directed that the following do not provide a basis for asserting federal control- The use of a body of water by an organism, including a migratory bird. The supply of water to a groundwater aquifer and the storage of water in an isolated waterbody. The water cycle, including the supply of water through evaporation, transpiration, condensation, precipitation, overland flow, and movement of water in an aquifer. To ensure that Corps and EPA carry out the important analyses and consultations that are designed to improve regulation, a new regulatory proposal must be developed employing the following- Federalism consultation under Executive Order 13132. Economic analyses under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Small business and small governmental entity review under the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act. Review of the unfunded mandates under the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act. Compliance with Executive Orders 12866 and 13563, on improving regulation.
04.30.2015	04.30.15 Rounds Announces Former Governors Caucus for 114th Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Angus King (I-Maine) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) announced the membership of the Former Governors Caucus for the 114th Congress. The caucus, which will be chaired by Rounds, King and Shaheen, is a coalition of lawmakers who want to use their experience as former state executives to work together in pursuit of practical and pragmatic solutions to the nation’s problems. “Former governors are accustomed to making decisions and working across party lines to get things done,” said Senator Rounds. “Our shared background helps us find common ground without checking our credentials at the door. As co-chairs of this caucus, I look forward to working toward bipartisan solutions to our nation’s problems that are workable for state and local governments.” “Nothing can get done in the Senate without bipartisan support,” said Senator King. “As former governors, each of us has worked across party lines to achieve results, and together, we can use that experience to make this institution function better. We may not agree on every issue, but we share a fundamental commitment to common sense solutions and are willing to put practicality ahead of partisanship. I’m proud to welcome Senators Shaheen and Rounds as co-chairs and look forward to working with the entire Former Governors Caucus.” “As former governors we all have the shared experience of working across party lines to find common ground and commonsense solutions to better our states,” Senator Shaheen said. “As co-chair of the Former Governors Caucus, I look forward to working with Senators King and Rounds and all the former governors to bring that commonsense approach to Washington.” The Former Governors Caucus has existed since 2013 and includes the following ten members for the 114th Congress: Senator Lamar Alexander (R- Tenn.) Governor of Tennessee, 1979-1987 Senator Tom Carper (D-Del.) Governor of Delaware, 1993-2001 Senator John Hoeven (R-N.D.) Governor of North Dakota, 2000-2010 Senator Tim Kaine (D-Va.) Governor of Virginia, 2006-2010 Senator Angus King (I-Maine) Governor of Maine, 1995-2003 Senator Joe Manchin (D-W.V) Governor of West Virginia, 2005-2010 Senator James Risch (R-Idaho) Governor of Idaho, 2006-2007 Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) Governor of South Dakota, 2003-2011 Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) Governor of New Hampshire, 1997-2003 Senator Mark Warner (D-Va.) Governor of Virginia, 2002-2006
04.29.2015	04.29.15 Rounds, Isakson Request Clarification from VA on New Billing Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and Veterans Affairs’ Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-G.A.) today sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald requesting that the VA clarify their billing rule change for home health and hospice providers. “Providing timely and adequate health care to our veterans is of utmost importance,” said Rounds. “I appreciate the VA’s efforts to reimburse home health and hospice care for our vets, but we have concerns that the manner in which they are doing so is inefficient and ineffective. We must make certain the process is in the best interest of our veterans.” “At a time when the VA is implementing sweeping reforms to expand accessible and quality care for our nation’s veterans through the Veterans’ Choice Program, it is alarming that it continues to have such difficulties processing payments to non-VA healthcare providers based on a rule adopted in 2013,” said Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “I urge the VA to swiftly address this problem and reform these bureaucratic inefficiencies in order to better serve the needs of America’s veterans.” Full text of the letter follows: -- April 29, 2015 The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We are writing with concerns regarding the implementation of a billing methodology change for home health and hospice providers. We appreciate your attention and response to our request. As you are aware, in November of 2011 the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) proposed a final rule to establish payments for home health services and hospice care by non-VA providers. VA then proposed a final rule change for the payment methodology for non-VA home health and hospice providers in May of 2013. The effective date for the change was June 2014, but was not implemented until last fall. The change to the new billing process has been burdensome and confusing for providers across the nation. Home health caregivers have received conflicting information about specific implementation details. VA has promised to provide thorough direction to navigate the rule change. However, it does not appear the guidance is reaching the providers, resulting in untimely or absent payments. Ultimately, these delays can affect veterans’ access to care, which as members of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs deeply concerns us. Although we appreciate the VA’s attempt to reimburse care for vital services like home health and hospice care, bureaucratic inefficiencies within VA seem to be hindering the effort to better serve veterans. We request VA clarify this rule as soon as possible and expedite all outstanding payments to all appropriate providers. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
04.28.2015	04.28.15 Rounds, Thune Call on USDA to Provide Immediate Assistance in Fight Against Avian Flu Virus WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Thomas Vilsack, requesting assistance to contain the deadly H5N2 bird flu virus affecting poultry farms in South Dakota. “While not harmful to humans, the bird flu virus has the potential to devastate the entire U.S. poultry industry,” said Rounds. “Already, more than 300,000 South Dakota turkeys have been destroyed. Agriculture is our number one economy in South Dakota, and our poultry farmers rely on exports to foreign markets. It’s important to combat the virus and keep foreign and domestic markets open to poultry products from South Dakota. I urge USDA to utilize its resources to contain this devastating virus.” “The avian influenza virus could significantly damage the growers and processors of South Dakota’s 4.3 million turkeys as well as other poultry producers and egg-laying facilities. USDA needs to keep continued vigilance focused on containing the virus as well as assuring our trading partners that U.S. poultry products continue to be safe for human consumption,” said Thune. Full text of the letter follows: -- April 28, 2015 The Honorable Thomas J. Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave, SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack, As you are aware, six confirmed cases of the H5N2 bird flu have been found on South Dakota farms and as a result, more than 300,000 turkeys in the state have been destroyed. H5N2 poses no risk to humans or to public health, but due to the potential devastating effects the H5N2 could have on the entire U.S. poultry industry we strongly urge the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to allocate all available personnel and resources to contain this deadly virus and to provide all assistance available to impacted states’ poultry industries. Also, it is imperative that foreign export markets continue to be kept open, especially for turkey products. We strongly urge you to make certain that these markets remain open and that you redouble your efforts to ensure an uninterrupted flow of U.S. poultry products to foreign markets continues. Agriculture is South Dakota’s number one industry and vital to South Dakota’s economy providing a $21.4 billion economic impact each year, directly or indirectly employing 122,000 South Dakotans, and generating 20 percent of the state’s economic activity. South Dakota agriculture depends heavily on exports and the loss or reduction of foreign turkey product exports would be highly detrimental to that industry in our state. As the USDA continues to take steps to contain this virus, please provide our offices with regular updates on the status of the outbreak and your efforts to contain and eradicate it. Sincerely,
04.27.2015	04.27.15 Trade Opportunities Benefit South Dakota Farmers, Producers, Manufacturers Free and fair trade plays an important role in American commerce. From higher wages for U.S. workers to supporting small businesses and agriculture, trade has a proven record of keeping our economy healthy and vibrant. In South Dakota alone, trade supports 124,000 jobs. In 2013, we exported $3.7 billion worth of products. Trade levels the playing field in the global marketplace so we have the best opportunity to promote American-made goods throughout the world. We should continually be looking for ways to increase trade opportunities. The U.S. is currently negotiating a trade agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) with 12 other nations along the Pacific Rim. Finding an agreement with these nations, which includes important trading partners such as Australia, Canada and Japan, could boost our GDP by $77 billion annually and create 500,000 new jobs. Another agreement with European nations, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), would create as many as 750,000 new jobs. That is in addition to the 40 million jobs trade already supports in the United States. One tool that recently passed out of the Senate Finance Committee would help us negotiate international trade agreements. Trade Promotion Authority, commonly referred to as TPA, is a tool that has been used since the days of FDR help the U.S. negotiate stronger, more enforceable international standards on trade agreements. The TPA bill making its way through the Senate creates a stronger, more enforceable framework for Congress to exercise oversight over the Administration, giving us a stronger voice in the negotiations process. It also establishes new trade-negotiating objectives that reflect today’s economic challenges, including measures to combat currency manipulation and eliminate barriers to innovation and digital trade. TPA strengthens our hand by giving the Senate an opportunity to guide the negotiations before a final deal is reached, rather than afterward. If the President has negotiated a good deal for our country, he then has the opportunity to take it to the Senate for an up-or-down vote. Members are not permitted to amend trade agreements, which gives other countries more confidence and certainty in the deal and the process. Companion legislation recently passed the House Ways and Means Committee, and President Obama continues to signal his support. I expect the full Senate to consider TPA legislation in the coming weeks. This is a real step forward on policy that has had long-standing bipartisan support in Congress and from the administration, but had been held up under previous Senate leadership. Free and fair trade agreements across the world open up new markets to South Dakota products. Our farmers and ranchers would particularly benefit from agreements such as TPP and TTIP. But in order to negotiate the best deal for our country, we must allow the administration to pursue trade agreements through parameters set by the Congress, and within the Trade Promotion Authority, to enable our current and future presidents to negotiate the best deal possible. That is exactly what the Senate TPA bill would do. This method has a proven record of boosting economic activity and bringing higher-paying American jobs. I look forward to debating TPA legislation when it comes to the full Senate in the coming weeks.
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Rounds Praises Bipartisan TPA Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today appeared on Fox Business’ Varney & Co. to discuss the Senate Finance Committee’s passage of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation late last night. TPA would help the U.S. finalize trade agreements and open new markets to U.S. goods. “Trade Promotion Authority will help the U.S. negotiate stronger, more enforceable international trade standards and open up new markets for American-made products,” said Rounds. “It is an effective tool with bipartisan support that has been used by every president since FDR. I look forward to TPA legislation coming to the full Senate floor for debate so we can remove barriers and level the playing field in the global marketplace.” In South Dakota, trade supports 124,000 jobs. In 2013, South Dakota producers and manufacturers exported $3.7 billion in U.S. goods. Full video of his interview is available by clicking HERE.
04.20.2015	04.20.15 Delegation Applauds Transition of 28th Bomb Wing under Global Strike Command WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today praised Ellsworth Air Force Base’s announcement that the 28th Bomb Wing will be moving under the control of Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC). The official transition will take place on October 1. The command structure of the Air Force divides the Air Force into 10 major commands. Although AFGSC will be the controlling command for Ellsworth Air Force Base and the B-1B bombers, Air Combat Command (ACC) will continue to oversee the M-Q9 Reaper control stations located at Ellsworth, and will remain the controlling command for the Powder River Training Complex. This change will only impact the Air Force command structure that oversees Ellsworth and the B-1 bomber fleet. No personnel changes at the base will take place as a result of this decision. “I applaud today’s announcement by the Air Force, which underscores the important role Ellsworth Air Force Base continues to play in our national security,” said Rounds. “As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I look forward to continuing to find ways to support Ellsworth and our service members stationed there.” “I applaud the Air Force’s decision to transition the 28th Bomb Wing under Global Strike Command,” said Thune “As the Air Force begins planning ahead for the Next Generation Bomber, moving all the bomber wings under one command will allow for a smoother transition. Air Combat Command will still maintain a role at Ellsworth, continuing its command of the recently expanded Powder River Training Complex (PRTC), and the control stations for the M-Q9 Reapers operating overseas. This transition further solidifies Ellsworth as a premiere U.S. Air Force Base and helps ensure our B-1 fleet remains the cornerstone of our air defense and global strike force. I thank the Air Force personnel who tirelessly worked to make this transition a reality. The men and women who serve at Ellsworth continue to make our state and nation proud.” “Ellsworth Air Force Base and the resilient airmen there serve an integral role in our national security strategy,” said Noem. “Time and again, they’ve provided strength and reliability in the face of 21st century threats. Today’s announcement by the Air Force further reinforces Ellsworth’s place within the military’s strategic framework. I’m hopeful the transition to the new command will further enable Ellsworth to fly, fight and win.” According to its mission, Global Strike Command seeks to develop and provide combat-ready forces for nuclear deterrence and global strike operations. Currently, Global Strike Command is responsible for the nation’s three intercontinental ballistic missile wings, the two B-52 wings, and the only B-2 wing.
04.17.2015	04.17.15 Rounds Announces Military Academy Day in Pierre WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his office is hosting a Military Academy Day in Pierre so students can learn more about the academy enrollment process at our nation’s military academies. “Our nation’s academies offer an opportunity to serve our nation while receiving top-notch education,” said Rounds. “The purpose of Military Academy Day is to provide students a one-stop opportunity to learn more about each of the academies and the application process. I encourage interested students and their families to attend.” Military Academy Day Saturday, April 25, 2015 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Capitol Lake Visitors Center Conference Room 650 East Capitol Ave. Pierre, SD 57501 Military Academy Day is an informational seminar for students and their parents interested in attending one of the five service academies: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. For more information about Military Academy Day or the academy nominations process, contact Michele Mustain at michele_mustain@rounds.senate.gov or call Rounds’ Sioux Falls office at (605) 336-0486.
04.15.2015	04.15.15 Rounds Announces Fall Internship Opportunities in Washington, South Dakota Offices WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced internship opportunities in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices for the fall 2015 semester. The fall semester will run from mid-August to mid-December. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested college students should submit a resume, cover letter and preferred internship location to Connie Tveidt, intern coordinator, no later than May 1, 2015: Senator Mike Rounds Attn: Connie Tveidt 111 W. Capitol St., Suite 210 Pierre, SD 57501 Applications may also be emailed to connie_tveidt@rounds.senate.gov. More information about the internship program can be found at www.rounds.senate.gov. Additional questions can be directed to Connie Tveidt at (605) 224-1450.
04.14.2015	04.14.15 Rounds Chairs First Subcommittee Hearing on Management of EPA, Fish and Wildlife, Chemical Safety Agencies WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today chaired his first hearing entitled “Oversight of the Management of the Federal Environmental Protection, Chemical Safety, and Fish and Wildlife Agencies.” “Today’s hearing laid the groundwork for what we want to accomplish in this subcommittee, which is to identify and eliminate waste, fraud and abuse within the EPA, the Army Corps and other agencies within our jurisdiction,” said Rounds. “I thank Chairman Inhofe, Ranking Member Markey, Senator Crapo and the Inspectors General for joining me in this important hearing. The Inspectors General play a crucial role in keeping federal agencies in check, and I look forward to working with them to make certain the agencies are working transparently to achieve their goals without overstepping their regulatory boundaries.” Video of the full hearing is available HERE. The purpose of the hearing was to conduct oversight related to the management and performance of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Witnesses included Arthur Elkins, Inspector General, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Safety Board, and Mary Kendall, Deputy Inspector General, U.S. Department of the Interior. Text of Rounds’ opening statement is available HERE.
04.14.2015	04.14.15 Rounds Opening Statement at Subcommittee Hearing on Management of EPA, Fish and Wildlife, Chemical Safety Agencies WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, today provided the following opening statement at a hearing entitled “Oversight of the Management of the Federal Environmental Protection, Chemical Safety, and Fish and Wildlife Agencies.” Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: The Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight is meeting for the first time today to conduct a hearing on “Oversight of the Management of the Federal Environmental Protection, Chemical Safety, and Fish and Wildlife Agencies. I’d like to thank our witnesses, Inspector General Arthur Elkins of the Environmental Protection Agency, and Deputy Inspector General Mary Kendall of the Department of the Interior for taking time out of their schedules to be with us today. I am honored to be chairing this Subcommittee in the 114th Congress with my friend from Massachusetts, Senator Ed Markey, as Ranking Member. As Subcommittee Chairman, I plan to conduct thorough oversight over the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Interior. The Inspectors General from these Agencies can and should serve as a resource for these reviews and today’s hearing serves as a starting point for this Oversight plan. Inspectors General are tasked with independently conducting audits and investigations relating to agency actions and programmatic mismanagement. Not only are they an asset to Congressional oversight, but their recommendations are effective at correcting mismanagement, waste, fraud, and abuse, at the EPA and Department of the Interior. It is essential the Inspectors General view Congress as a partner in this oversight process. Throughout this Congress we will be focusing chiefly on good governance and making certain the agencies are operating transparently, responsibly managing taxpayer dollars and working to achieve their core missions without the regulatory overreach so prevalent in agency actions today. More than ever we are seeing agency regulatory regimes expanding federal jurisdiction beyond their statutory limits, encroaching into private businesses, landowner’s rights, and the States’ ability to manage and regulate the environment and land within their own borders. Additionally, the EPA and the Department of the Interior are moving forward with implementing major environmental regulations impacting every sector of the U.S. economy and affecting hundreds of thousands of American jobs. We must make certain that the regulations these agencies implement are being written in an open, transparent process that allows for full public participation taking into account all views regardless of the agencies’ notions of their goals. The EPA and Fish and Wildlife Service owe it to the American people to not only provide a thorough, transparent and honest analysis of how regulations will affect them but also to base these regulations on the most current and reliable economic data and sound science. Notably, these IG’s have conducted recent investigations on mismanagement of the Chemical Safety Board, grant management, and administrative management issues. I look forward to hearing a review of the work the IG’s have done regarding management of the EPA, CSB, and Fish and Wildlife Service along with an update of the reviews the IG’s are currently undertaking. Again, I’d like to thank our witnesses for being with us today and for presenting their testimony.
04.09.2015	04.09.15 Rounds to Chair First EPW Subcommittee Hearing First Hearing Entitled “Oversight of the Management of the Federal Environmental Protection, Chemical Safety and Fish and Wildlife Agencies” WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, will hold a hearing on Tuesday, April 14 at 9:30 a.m. ET entitled “Oversight of the Management of the Federal Environmental Protection, Chemical Safety, and Fish and Wildlife Agencies.” The purpose of the hearing is to conduct oversight related to the management and performance of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Hearing: Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight “Oversight of the Management of the Federal Environmental Protection, Chemical Safety, and Fish and Wildlife Agencies” Witnesses: · Arthur Elkins, Inspector General, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Safety Board · Mary Kendall, Deputy Inspector General, U.S. Department of the Interior Date: Tuesday, April 14, 2015 9:30 a.m. ET Senate Dirksen Office Building, Room 406
04.08.2015	04.08.15 Rounds Announces New Senate Payments Innovation Caucus WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), along with Sens. Gary Peters (D-M.I.), Johnny Isakson (R-G.A.) and Tom Carper (D-D.E.), today announced the formation of the bipartisan Senate Payments Innovation Caucus. The Senate Payments Innovation Caucus will explore new and innovative technologies in the payments industry and address issues concerning data security, consumer protection and electronic payments. “Credit cards and mobile payments are a large part of South Dakota’s economy, and it’s important for others to understand how the industry works,” said Rounds. “The technology payments industry impacts nearly every corner of our economy and is changing just as rapidly as it is growing. Our goal is to make sure others are aware of the issues important to the industry to meet its growing needs and keep consumer data safe and secure.” “As the trade association of more than 500 U.S. payments technology companies, ETA applauds the leadership of Senators Mike Rounds and Gary Peters in forming the Senate Payments Innovation Caucus,” said Jason Oxman, CEO of the Electronic Transactions Association (ETA). “ETA member companies are the world’s leading payments innovators, deploying mobile payments and other technology that powers commerce for merchants and their customers. We look forward to working with caucus members to advance policies that promote innovation and economic growth through payments technology.” Nearly 70 percent of consumer spending is done using electronic payment methods, and electronic consumer spending continues to grow. By 2017, it is expected to reach an estimated $7.3 trillion. Electronic payment methods include credit, debit and prepaid cards, as well as mobile payments. The use of mobile phones and other electronic devices to access bank accounts and credit cards and to make payments is a rapidly growing part of our economy that provides new opportunities for small businesses, startups and established stakeholders to reach customers around the world. The electronic transactions industry supports tens of thousands of jobs across the country, and it continues to grow. Mobile banking and innovation in payments technology also have the potential to increase access to financial services for unbanked and underbanked consumers. Among underbanked consumers, 48 percent have used mobile banking in the past year. These technologies can help lower-income Americans save for their future and manage their income and expenditures. The Senate Payments Innovation Caucus will focus on educating staff and Senators on the dynamic issues surrounding this growing industry, including data security and consumer protection, innovation in electronic payment technologies and consumer access to electronic financial services. Reps. Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), David Scott (GA-13), and Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) recently formed the Congressional Payments Technology Caucus in the House of Representatives.
04.02.2015	04.02.15 Rounds Asks South Dakotans to Share Their Federal Regulation Stories WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today launched a new initiative to give South Dakotans an opportunity to share their stories about the impact federal regulation has in their work and on their daily lives. These stories will help Rounds determine where to focus his efforts to cut waste, fraud, abuse and overregulation by federal agencies. “I continue to hear from South Dakotans who are being overwhelmed by federal bureaucracy and red tape,” said Rounds. “This will give them the opportunity to share their stories with me so I can better understand which agencies and regulations are in need of reform. For too long, unelected bureaucrats have made sweeping decisions with almost no oversight or accountability. This has led to complicated regulations that are unworkable for the American people. I have made it a priority in the Senate to reduce unnecessary and excess regulations to make government more effective, efficient and accountable. Hearing your stories will help me accomplish that goal.” Those wishing to share their story can do so by emailing regulations_story@rounds.senate.gov. In addition to your story, submissions should include your name and hometown. You can read more about Rounds’ efforts to stop overregulation on his website at www.rounds.senate.gov.
03.31.2015	03.31.15 Rounds Congratulates Sioux Falls, Rapid City Students for Documentary Competition Award WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today congratulated nine Sioux Falls and Rapid City students for receiving top prizes in C-SPAN’s 2015 StudentCam Documentary Competition. This contest asked students across the nation to create a brief documentary on a national policy issue. These nine South Dakotans are among 347 recipients nationwide. Winners of second prizes and above will have their videos aired on C-SPAN throughout the day on April 9th. “I congratulate these bright young South Dakota students for receiving top awards from C-SPAN’s documentary competition,” said Rounds. “The hard work these young men and women put into their documentaries shows maturity, creativity, curiosity and initiative. What happens in Washington has a direct effect on their futures. I encourage them to continue to stay engaged in current events and the political process.” South Dakota Winners Max Martin, a seventh grader at Edison Middle School in Sioux Falls, will receive $250 for his Honorable Mention documentary, “Scars Unhealed,” about the Veterans Affairs Choice Act. Garrett Masters and Rhiannon Bull, seventh graders at Edison Middle School in Sioux Falls, will receive $250 for their Honorable Mention documentary, “Technology in the Classroom: Admirable Advantage or Dreadful Distraction?” Matthew Eastmo, Travis Mills, and Ashley Peterson, seniors at Saint Thomas Moore High School in Rapid City, will receive $1,500 for their Second Prize documentary, “The Keystone Effect.” This video will air on C-SPAN at 6:50 a.m. ET and throughout the day on April 9, 2015. London Kahler, Hanna Glissendorf, and Alexa Diehl, seniors at Saint Thomas Moore High School in Rapid City, will receive $750 for their Third Prize documentary, “Technical Difficulties: Fixing Electronic Medical Records. ” Students were asked to answer the question, “The Three Branches and You: tell a story that demonstrates how a policy, law, or action by either the executive, legislative, or judicial branch has affected you or your community.” In response, C-SPAN received 2,280 video submissions from almost 5,000 students across the nation. Documentaries were judged by a panel of C-SPAN education representatives and evaluated based on the thoughtful examination of the competition’s theme, quality of expression, inclusion of varying sides of the documentary’s topic, and effective incorporation of C-SPAN programming.
03.30.2015	03.30.15 Rounds Announces South Dakota Photo Contest WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his office is hosting a photo contest. He is seeking photos from across the state that highlight the unique scenery and landscape South Dakota has to offer. The top photo submissions will be featured on Rounds’ social media pages and website. “From rolling hills and canyons to fertile river beds and prairies, our state has some of the most unique and diverse landscape in the country,” said Rounds. “I look forward to showcasing some of South Dakota’s natural beauty and sharing your work with others.” Photo submissions, along with the photographers name, hometown and a brief description of the picture can be sent to Rounds_Press@rounds.senate.gov. By submitting a photo, the photographer grants permission to use the photo online.
03.27.2015	03.27.15 Rounds Statement on Passage of Senate Budget Resolution WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) made the following statement on the passage of the Senate budget resolution early this morning: “When Republicans took control of the Senate this year, we vowed to restore regular order which has been missing for far too long. Passing a budget resolution is an important part of keeping that promise. The budget we spent more than 15 hours amending is an important framework that will allow us to get to work on the appropriations process and enact meaningful changes to spending and policy. “Additionally, I was pleased that a number of amendments I offered and cosponsored were included in the budget resolution. These amendments seek to make government more accountable and workable for South Dakota taxpayers.” Rounds Amendments Included in the Budget Resolution: Amendment #339 to facilitate help for those in rural areas seeking a mortgage to purchase a home. For more information, click HERE. Amendment #693 requiring Congress to include findings from Inspectors General (IG) when examining ways to reduce waste, fraud and abuse within federal agencies. For more information, click HERE. Amendments Rounds Cosponsored Included in the Budget Resolution Amendment #347 to clarify the extent of Federal jurisdiction under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. (Barrasso) Amendment #607 to create a deficit neutral reserve fund to eliminate the death tax. (Thune) Amendment #490 to address the disproportionate regulatory burdens placed on community banks and credit unions. (Ayotte)
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Rounds Offers Amendment to Protect Taxpayers from Waste, Fraud and Abuse WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today introduced an amendment to the budget resolution requiring Congress to include findings from Inspectors General (IG) when examining ways to reduce waste, fraud and abuse within federal agencies. “We owe it to South Dakota taxpayers to make certain their hard-earned dollars are spent wisely in Washington,” said Rounds. “I’ve already been working with IGs in my committee work and know firsthand how valuable their reports can be in finding waste, fraud and abuse among agencies. My amendment seeks to include this valuable information when conducting important oversight work in Congress.” The current budget resolution calls for Congressional oversight committees to examine the biennial Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) High Risk List when finding ways to seek waste, fraud and abuse within their agencies of jurisdiction. Rounds’ amendment would add Inspector General semi-annual reports and unimplemented recommendations as part of that oversight process.
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Rounds, Inhofe Statement on Chemical Safety Board Chairman’s Resignation WASHINGTON— U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and Regulatory Oversight, and Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, and released the following statement welcoming the resignation of Rafael Mourie-Eraso, chairman of the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board: “We applaud the White House for responding to our request for Chairman Rafael Mourie-Eraso’s resignation. During his time serving a chairman, we believe he violated his oath of office and violated the law. Mourie-Eraso’s leadership created an environment of dysfunction within the agency and it was no longer operating with credibility in conducting meaningful investigations of industrial incidents. There is no doubt the Chemical Safety Board serves a critical public safety role, and we urge the president to work with the EPW Committee and our colleagues in the Senate to fill the vacancies left at the CSB and once again restore trust and transparency at the agency.” On March 12, Inhofe and Rounds sent a letter to President Obama calling for the immediate resignation of Moure-Eraso. In the letter, the members shed light on the failed practices of the chairman and the lack of credibility created by him and his leadership team.
03.25.2015	03.25.15 Rounds Cosponsors Bill to Repeal Death Tax WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined U.S. Senator John Thune (R-S.D.) and 25 colleagues in introducing legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, which will bring tax relief to farmers, ranchers and small business owners. “Currently, 70 percent of family businesses do not survive to the second generation, in part because of this additional tax which may force the sale of a family business upon the death of one of the owners,” said Rounds. A similar bill was introduced in the House of Representatives with more than 100 cosponsors.
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Rounds: Federal Bureaucracy Unnecessarily Hurting South Dakota Banks WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today at a hearing heard from regional bank executives how Dodd-Frank regulations are limiting their ability to grow, expand and remain competitive. During the hearing, Deron Smithy, Treasurer of the Regions Bank Group, told Rounds that Regions Bank Group now has more employees devoted to compliance related matters than commercial lending. “When a bank is forced to hire more compliance officers or retain more capital it makes fewer loans, this means that there is less money available for small business owners to start or expand their businesses,” said Rounds. “When we take a look at what’s happening to our economy since the beginning of a recovery, and what appears to be not a robust recovery, I wonder whether or not a lot of that has to do with a regulatory hand on the top of the ball which is sitting in the water, holding it down from where it would otherwise be.” Video of his remarks is available HERE.
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Rounds Offers Amendment to Budget Resolution to Give State and Local Governments a Say in Environmental Regs WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today offered an amendment to the budget resolution that would allow the Senate to give state and local governments a say in environmental settlement agreements that affect citizens within their borders. EPW Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) is a cosponsor. The amendment seeks to end “sue and settle” tactics by requiring EPA and other agencies to notify state and local governments before entering into a legal settlement from a citizen suit. “Too often, rather than writing and implementing environmental regulations in an open, transparent process, environmental regulations are enacted as the result of citizen suits prompted by environmental activists. This creates arbitrary timelines and deadlines in which this Administration has used as a catalyst to rush new regulations through the process. Meanwhile, the citizens and state and local governments who will be impacted are not given enough time to properly weigh in or assess the impact. My amendment would allow us to fix the problem and add a much-needed layer of transparency to this Administration’s broad regulatory brush.” “I proudly support amendment #412 sponsored by Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), which addresses one of the key concerns with ‘sue-and-settle’ tactics that allow environmental activists to play an outsized role in shaping regulatory actions,” said Inhofe. “‘Sue-and-settle’ is a scheme used by environmental groups to advance their agenda by suing federal agencies, like Environmental Protection Agency and Fish and Wildlife Services, and reaching an agreement to take regulatory action without input from states or other parties that may be impacted. With over 100 rules attributed to ‘sue-and-settle’ in the first term of the Obama Administration, this is clearly a problem that needs to be fixed. By cosponsoring this amendment, I stand with hardworking Americans at the state and local levels to ensure they have a seat at the negotiating table when it comes to setting regulations affecting them.”
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Rounds Questions VA Deputy Secretary Gibson on Health Care Accessibility for Vets WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today questioned Deputy Secretary Sloan Gibson of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on ways to improve access to health care for veterans. During a hearing on the Veterans’ Choice Act “40-mile rule” that was recently changed to provide more flexibility for veterans, Rounds took the opportunity to ask about other ways to streamline contracting for veteran services: “We have a duty to make sure our veterans receive timely, quality care, and it shouldn’t matter whether they receive that care through a VA provider or elsewhere,” said Rounds. “We want the VA to be successful in providing health care for our vets. If that means finding a legislative fix to modify the statutory guidelines allowing the VA to streamline its contracting process, we should pursue it. I will continue to work with members of the Veterans’ Affairs committee and the VA to streamline the contracting system.” Deputy Secretary Gibson announced that he will report back to the Committee regarding VA contracting processes.
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Rounds Applauds FAA’s Approval of Powder River Training Complex Expansion for Ellsworth Air Force Base WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement that it has approved the Air Force’s proposed expansion of the Powder River Training Complex (PRTC). PRTC encompasses air space over South Dakota, North Dakota, Montana and Wyoming. This is the last step in the expansion process. “I commend the collaborative efforts of the Air Force and the FAA, who have worked diligently to see this important project through,” said Rounds. “The expansion of PRTC will not only provide additional air space for our men and women in uniform to train for combat, it will save Ellsworth Air Force Base millions of dollars a year in fuel costs. Completion of the project solidifies the critical role Ellsworth plays – and will continue to play – in military readiness and national defense.”
03.23.2015	03.23.15 Rounds, Freshmen Senators Hold Press Conference to Address Obamacare’s Five-Year Anniversary WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined fellow freshmen members of the Senate in a press conference today to address the future of health care on the five-year anniversary of Obamacare. “We’re not going to stop until we fix a lot of the problems that we find within the health care industry,” said Rounds at the conference. “What we can do to start is pass a budget resolution that provides tools for us in which to impact the implementation of health care. And it provides us something else: twelve opportunities in twelve separate appropriation bills in which we can impact how money at the federal level is being spent.” A budget resolution for fiscal year 2016 is currently being considered on the Senate floor. The budget resolution will provide the procedural tools – via budget reconciliation– to repeal Obamacare. It is expected to pass later this week, which then allows the Senate to begin the appropriations process. Rounds was joined today by Sens. Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), James Lankford (R-Okla.) and Steve Daines (R-Mont.).
03.23.2015	03.23.15 Rounds Introduces Amendment to Budget Resolution to Open More Mortgage Options in Rural Areas WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today introduced an amendment to the budget resolution to facilitate help for those in rural areas seeking a mortgage to purchase a home. The Dodd-Frank financial reform law of 2010 has made it more difficult for citizens in rural areas to receive a mortgage. “South Dakotans who live in rural areas are finding it increasingly hard to get a loan for a home because of new layers of red tape at the federal level,” said Rounds. “Community banks should not be unfairly punished because of the national housing crisis. My amendment will allow us to address mortgage lending in rural areas so South Dakota families can get the loan they need to thrive and grow.” Rounds’ amendment would create a deficit-neutral reserve fund related to mortgage lending in rural areas to help free up equity that can be used to make home loans.
03.18.2015	03.18.15 Rounds Statement on Senate Budget Resolution WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement on the Senate Budget resolution: “The budget released today outlines a robust plan to get government working again,” said Rounds. “It’s a road map to make government more efficient, effective and accountable to the American people. Our plan rightfully balances the budget, strengthens national defense, repeals Obamacare, and protects the most vulnerable among us while encouraging economic growth and productivity. While it isn’t perfect, it allows us to begin the appropriations process on time and in the manner it was intended to function.” The Senate Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Resolution: Balances the budget within 10 years; Provides flexibility for national defense funding; Repeals and replaces Obamacare; Reforms welfare and Medicaid programs by providing states the resources and flexibility necessary to care for their residents’ needs; Encourages domestic energy production; and Protects Americans from new tax hikes.
03.18.2015	03.18.15 Rounds Calls for End to Sequestration WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today at a hearing made the following remarks reinforcing his desire to end sequestration and increase spending for defense: “I would like to briefly address an overarching theme that has dominated this committee’s dialog over many weeks. That theme is, of course, the critical importance of properly funding our armed forces. We have heard over and over from leaders from throughout the Defense Department about the devastating impacts that would accompany sequestration. But I believe sequestration is part of a larger threat to our defense establishment and our national security. At a time of great fiscal pressures we can expect to see continued pressure for defense spending that is below a level of acceptable risk. In short, we can expect to see as never before advocacy of a national security strategy that is budget and not strategy driven. This committee is positioned to keep that from happening. So I would like to take this opportunity to state my strong support and great appreciation for the ongoing efforts of Chairman McCain and Ranking Member Reed to not only avoid sequestration but to truly provide the funding levels needed to keep our nation safe.” Full video of his remarks is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K-8D9xvTQdk&feature=youtu.be
03.17.2015	03.17.15 Rounds to Administration: Act Quickly To Protect South Dakota Tourism and Construction Industries WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today wrote a letter to Department of Labor (DOL) encouraging the agency to act quickly to find a long-term solution for issuing temporary, seasonal employment visas (H-2B) that are critical for a number of industries in South Dakota. Earlier this month, DOL stopped processing H-2B visas following an injunction by a federal court. Today, a judge granted stay that would allow DOL to continue issuing H-2B visas while a long-term solution is established. “I’m pleased the Administration finally took the steps necessary to get this important program moving again,” said Rounds. “South Dakota tourism and construction industries rely on this temporary work program to fully operate. Now, it’s imperative DOL works quickly to find a long-term solution so that our businesses have both the certainty and labor force they need to be successful.” The motion to stay runs until April 15, 2015. Last week, DOL and the Department of Homeland Security announced on they intend to issue an interim final rule by April 30th, 2015. This could leave a two-week gap between the stay and the final interim ruling in which H-2B visas may not be issued. Text of the letter can be found below: March 17, 2015 The Honorable Thomas Perez Secretary of Labor Office of the Secretary U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room S-2018 Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Perez: When the Northern District Court of Florida vacated the Department of Labor’s H-2B regulations on March 4, 2015, in Perez v. Perez, No. 3:14-cv-682, this caused great concern and adverse consequences for several businesses in our States. While the District Court today has stayed this action and allowed visa applications to be processed, it is critical that the ramifications of this court decision be addressed as soon as possible and that the Department find a definitive solution to this problem. Seasonal industries make staffing and capital expenditure decisions months in advance. Without certainty, they cannot make these critical decisions. Due to the Federal District Court’s ruling that the Department of Labor’s H-2B rules are not compliant, seasonal businesses are left without a clear path forward through some of the most important months of the year. We urge you to act as expeditiously as you can to solve this problem, by the end of the stay. While we realize that the Department of Labor overstepped its bounds in issuing these regulations, we believe that something must be done to remedy the problem that has arisen as a result. We understand that in response to some of our colleagues that the Departments of Labor and Homeland Security are working to issue a joint Interim Final Rule and do so by April 30, 2015. We urge you to act sooner by April 15th, the end of this stay. Businesses cannot wait these extra weeks until your Department acts. Sincerely,
03.13.2015	03.13.15 Weekly Column: Helping South Dakotans Navigate Federal Agencies Part of my job as a United States Senator is to provide assistance to South Dakotans who are having trouble dealing with a federal agency. In fact, it is the primary focus in my state offices. Members of my staff in South Dakota are specially trained to help constituents navigate the federal maze. We work with our fellow South Dakotans on a daily basis, addressing their concerns and issues related to the federal government. Sometimes, we even work to remind the federal government it’s the citizens for whom they are employed to serve. Whether a constituent is having trouble handling a VA claim, accessing social security benefits, filing taxes or obtaining a visa, my staff and I are here to help. Already, we have successfully assisted many South Dakotans by expediting passports that were delayed and helping veterans obtain additional benefits which they have been promised. I’m proud of the work we are doing and we are honored to help. South Dakotans needing help dealing with a federal agency should contact one of my state offices. We are located in Pierre, Rapid City, Sioux Falls, Huron and Aberdeen. One of my staff members will also hold office hours in Mitchell every other Tuesday starting March 10, 2015, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at City Hall in the Council Chambers, in Watertown every other Thursday as of March 26, 2015, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Watertown Regional Library and in Huron every Monday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Huron Public Library. My Aberdeen office will be open Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Office locations and phone numbers are listed on my website, www.rounds.senate.gov, under the “Contact” tab. South Dakotans should feel free to call any of my offices for assistance. Because my team works closely together across the state and in Washington, we strive to provide a timely response to each person contacting us. My state offices in Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls are open every week day from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and I would encourage anyone who has questions or issues with a federal agency to call, send a letter or simply stop in. I understand how frustrating it can be to have an issue with the government and not know the best way to resolve it. The federal agencies have lists of complex and often confusing rules. Navigating them alone can seem daunting. We understand that, and we are here to help. One of the most important parts of my job as a Senator is acting on behalf of my constituents during times of need. I have highly qualified, talented individuals on staff, many of whom have years of experience dealing with casework on both the state and federal level. Whether we are the first call someone makes when dealing with a federal agency or their last call when they feel as if they can no longer fight the government on their own, we are here. My team and I look forward to serving the people of South Dakota any way we can.
03.13.2015	03.13.15 Rounds Visits Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, tonight returned from a trip to the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, also known as GTMO. The facility houses some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists. Rounds was joined by U.S. Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.). During their trip, the delegation toured the Guantanamo Bay base, observed detention operations and met with military commanders stationed at the base. "As terrorism against America and our allies continues unabated, I was pleased to see for myself the work being done at GTMO to protect our country from those who seek to destroy us,” said Rounds. “The men and women stationed at Guantanamo Bay play an important role in counter-terrorism efforts while making sure the detainees are treated humanely. I have no doubt this is the right place to detain them - now and in the future.” The Senate Armed Services Committee recently approved legislation suspending for two years international transfers of detainees who have ever been designated as high or medium risk to the United States. There are 122 inmates housed at Guantanamo Bay, which has been open since 2002. The Obama Administration has repeatedly sought to close the facility over strong bipartisan objections by Congress.
03.12.2015	03.12.15 Rounds Questions Pentagon Officials on BRAC Process WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, Wednesday questioned Department of Defense (DoD) officials about the Administration’s proposal for another Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round. When Rounds was working as governor during the last BRAC round (2005), Ellsworth Air Force Base was removed from DoD’s proposed closure list as a result of extensive information that South Dakota presented to the BRAC Commission. The BRAC Commission was created by Congress to conduct an independent and impartial review of DoD’s closure recommendations. “Ellsworth Air Force Base is an important part of a long-term defense strategy,” said Rounds. “Because of the critical role it plays in protecting our nation, I want to make sure the Pentagon is using the best possible information should there be another BRAC round. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue to seek ways to protect Ellsworth and the vital mission it performs for America.” Full video of his questioning is available here.
03.11.2015	03.11.15 Rounds Presses Army Corps for Answers on Misleading Waters of the U.S. Statements WASHINGTON —U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today pressed for answers regarding misleading comments made by members of the Obama Administration on the Waters of the U.S. proposal. At a hearing last week, Rounds asked Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy to clarify contradictory statements about the public comments received, but was deferred to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). Today’s letter to Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works at USACE is a follow up to that exchange. “In South Dakota, I’ve heard from many constituents who feel this proposed rule would add unnecessary layers of bureaucracy and adversely affect their operations,” Rounds wrote. “It’s important to make sure the voices of the people in my state – and all Americans who have spent time weighing in during the public comment period – are accurately accounted for. I’m troubled that these recent statements could be misleading the American people.” Full text of the letter is below: March 11, 2015 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil WorksU. S. Army Corps of EngineersThe Pentagon, Room 2E569Army Navy Drive & Fern StreetArlington, VA 20310-0108 Dear Secretary Darcy, I write to you today about recent conflicting statements made by your agency and EPA regarding the public comments of Waters of the United States. In South Dakota, I’ve heard from many constituents who feel this proposed rule would add unnecessary layers of bureaucracy and adversely affect their operations. It’s important to make sure the voices of the people in my state – and all Americans who have spent time weighing in during the public comment period – are accurately accounted for. I’m troubled that these recent statements could be misleading the American people. On February 11, you testified to the House Appropriations Committee members that 37 percent of the comments on the proposed Waters of the United States Rule were in favor of the rule, 58 percent were opposed, and the others were neutral. On February 26, EPA Administrator McCarthy contradicted you and claimed that your statement was based on a review of only 2 percent of the comments and that, in fact, 87 percent of the comments supported the rule. Administrator McCarthy made the same statement to me last week in a hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. When I asked her to clarify how many of the unique and substantive comments supported the proposed rule, she referred me to you. In an effort to clarify these contradictory statements and ensure full transparency of the public comments the Corps of Engineers and the EPA have received regarding the proposed Waters of the United States Rule, I respectfully request responses to the following questions: Approximately what percentage of comments regarding the proposed rule has the Corps of Engineers reviewed thus far? Were the comments that were reviewed unique and substantive comments or were they part of a mass campaign? In addition, can you please explain to me the difference between a unique and substantive comment and a mass campaign? Is a mass campaign essentially multiple copies of the same comment? Please tell me how many unique and substantive comments the Corps of Engineers and EPA have received on the proposed Waters of the United States rule. Do those unique and substantive comments constitute the 2 percent of comments that the Corps has reviewed? Is it accurate to say that the Corps of Engineers has reviewed all of the unique and substantive comments? Of the unique and substantive comments received, please tell me how many supported the rule and how many opposed the rule. When the Corps of Engineers reviews comments, is your consideration influenced by the simple number of comments for and against the proposed rule, or by the thoughtful explanation of impacts of the proposed rule that EPA and the Corps may not have considered? During meetings with stakeholders, do you or the Corps of Engineers ask specifically ask members of the public to provide substantive and thoughtful explanations of potential impacts? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please assure me that the Corps of Engineers will carefully review and address the substantive concerns that have been raised in comments on the proposed rule.
03.10.2015	03.10.15 Rounds Applauds Administration for Backing Off Ammunition Ban Proposal WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today applauded the Administration’s decision to withdraw a proposal to severely limit rifle ammunition primarily used for sporting purposes. Rounds is a member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. “I was appalled to hear the Administration would even consider restricting access to bullets,” said Rounds. “In our letter, we made clear that the right to bear arms includes ammunition as well. I’m pleased common sense and the 2nd amendment prevailed. Those of us who are supporters of the 2nd amendment must remain vigilant in monitoring this executive branch's attempts to limit our right to bear arms." Yesterday, Rounds joined 52 colleagues in signing a letter to Director Todd Jones of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) expressing concern for the proposal. Today, the ATF announced it will not seek to issue a final framework for the proposed rule after receiving more than 80,000 public comments on the proposal.
03.09.2015	03.09.15 Rounds Condemns ATF Framework Limiting Sporting Ammo WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today joined 52 colleagues in expressing concern for a new proposal that would severely limit access to rifle ammunition primarily used for sporting purposes. This class of ammunition is protected from prohibition under a 1986 Law Enforcement Officer Protection Act exemption. The framework, proposed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), would set arbitrary guidelines for determining whether certain ammunition meets the 1986 law’s “sporting purposes” exemption. As a result, access to rifle ammunition long considered to be primarily used for activities, such as target shooting and hunting, could be limited. In a letter to ATF Director Todd Jones, the senators assert that the new framework defies the intent of Congress when it passed the 1986 law. They also question ATF’s authority to establish such a framework and express concern for its impact on Second Amendment rights guaranteed in the Constitution. “Second Amendment rights require not only access to firearms but to bullets,” the senators write. “If law-abiding gun owners cannot obtain rifle ammunition, or face substantial difficulty in finding ammunition available and at reasonable prices because government entities are banning such ammunition, then the Second Amendment is at risk.” Text of the letter is below. March 9, 2015 Dear Director Jones: We take issue with the “ATF Framework for Determining Whether Certain Projectiles are ‘Primarily Intended for Sporting Purposes’ Within the Meaning of 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(17)(C),” to which ATF sought comment on February 13, 2015. Congress in 1986 passed the Law Enforcement Officers Protection Act (LEOPA). It did so to protect law enforcement officers from a particular category of bullets – those that could be fired from handguns and pierce police officers’ body armor. Because rifle ammunition could also pass through police body armor, and some rifle ammunition could be fired from handguns, LEOPA protected common rifle ammunition by exempting from its scope projectiles “which the Attorney General finds [are] primarily intended to be used for sporting purposes.” The “Framework” does not follow LEOPA. Without any support, it purports to create an “objective” test never before applied for delineating which projectiles are “primarily intended to be used for sporting purposes.” ATF will exempt a “.22 caliber projectile … if the projectile weighs 40 grains or less AND is loaded into a rimfire cartridge,” and will exempt other forms of ammunition if they are “loaded into a cartridge for which the only handgun that is readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade is a single shot handgun.” But even if a particular projectile satisfies these novel tests, ATF proposes to “retain[] the discretion to deny any application for a ‘sporting purposes’ exemption if substantial evidence exists that the ammunition is not primarily intended for such purposes.” ATF would determine what amounts to “substantial evidence” and whether the “ammunition is not primarily intended for [sporting] purposes.” The statute was not enacted to give authority to ATF to do either. In 1986, the sponsors of the legislation were emphatic in stating that ammunition commonly used in rifles for target practice or hunting was not of the type of ammunition that the bill would ban. ATF seems to have decided to ban ammunition types that the law did not ban, then developed from whole cloth an “objective” test to supposedly provide it with the ability to ban the ammunition types it already had selected for prohibition. Earlier, ATF recognized the proper scope of LEOPA. ATF has always granted an exemption to the M855 5.56 x 45mm cartridge from the LEOPA ban because it recognized that this ammunition fell squarely within the “sporting purposes” test. It did so because factually, as well as legally under the legislative language, such cartridges were and are widely used by millions of law-abiding gun owners for “sporting purposes.” These cartridges are prevalent for one of the most commonly possessed rifles, the AR-15. Congress did not, and did not intend to, ban this form of ammunition. ATF’s proposed restriction of the M855 cartridge is particularly serious in light of efforts to ban other forms of ammunition. The standards in the “Framework” would make use of ammunition containing materials other than lead more difficult. At the same time, various efforts to ban lead ammunition are proceeding apace. Second Amendment rights require not only access to firearms but to bullets. If law-abiding gun owners cannot obtain rifle ammunition, or face substantial difficulty in finding ammunition available and at reasonable prices because government entities are banning such ammunition, then the Second Amendment is at risk. An outright ban is an even more serious threat to the Second Amendment than the threat to the First Amendment’s protection of free press created by a tax imposed only on voluminous purchases of paper and ink. See Minneapolis Star Tribune Co. v. Commissioner, 460 U.S. 575 (1983). It is not clear where ATF believes it has obtained the authority to issue general standards interpreting the meaning of “sporting purposes” under LEOPA as opposed to exempting or not exempting particular cartridges. Nevertheless, no federal statute, including LEOPA, interferes with the ability of law-abiding citizens to obtain ammunition commonly used for such legitimate purposes as target shooting, hunting, and shooting competitions. Nor could any such statute do so consistent with the Second Amendment. The “Framework” should not be adopted, and ATF should not propose in the future to ban any widely used form of ammunition used by law-abiding citizens for lawful purposes. Sincerely,
03.09.2015	03.09.15 Rounds Questions Administration’s Commitment to Public Input on Social Cost of Carbon Estimates WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D), a member of The Environment and Public Works Committee (EPW), joined EPW Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Sens. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), David Vitter (R-La.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) and James Lankford (R-Okla.) in sending a letter to Howard Shelanski, administrator for the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), on the social cost of carbon (SCC) estimates. Today’s letter renews congressional oversight interest in the SCC, questioning OIRA’s commitment to accept public input on the SCC and to keep the public informed of the status of the secretive Interagency Working Group (IWG) developing the SCC estimates. “Congress and the American people deserve greater transparency and government accountability regarding the social cost of carbon (SCC)—a theoretical measure of climate change damages the Administration uses to justify onerous regulations,” the Republicans said in the letter. “In fact, the Administration has not provided the public with any new information on the status of the SCC since the 2013 update. Accordingly, we write to request OIRA—as a steward of the regulatory process and IWG—fulfill its obligation to be fully responsive to the public and Congress in these matters.” The SCC is key to all the Administration’s climate benefit claims. Last Congress, Senate Republicans raised a number of concerns with the SCC estimates, including a lack of transparency in the IWG’s process for developing the estimates, failure to comply with regulatory guidance, technical deficiencies in the models used, questionable assumptions selected, and lack of public participation. Subsequently, OIRA—the office convening the IWG—agreed to provide public comment on the estimates in November 2013. The comment period closed over a year ago on Feb. 26, 2014, and they have not responded to the comments or provided any public information on the status of the SCC. Yet, the administration has continued to use the SCC estimates to justify burdensome regulations. “Above all, it is only reasonable for the public to know how OIRA plans to use their comments. We want to encourage public participation in the regulatory process, not stifle it by ignoring those individuals who engaged in the process by submitting comments,” the Republicans concluded in the letter. The full text of the letter is as follows: March 9, 2015 The Honorable Howard A. Shelanski Administrator Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Administrator Shelanski: Congress and the American people deserve greater transparency and government accountability regarding the social cost of carbon (SCC)—a theoretical measure of climate change damages the Administration uses to justify onerous regulations. The estimates were developed by a secretive Interagency Working Group (IWG) absent notice or public participation. Only after numerous written requests from Congress and the public, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) agreed to provide the opportunity for public comment on the SCC beginning November 26, 2013. A year has passed since the comment period closed, but OIRA has not responded to the comments and it is unclear whether the comments have been reviewed. In fact, the Administration has not provided the public with any new information on the status of the SCC since the 2013 update. Accordingly, we write to request OIRA—as a steward of the regulatory process and IWG—fulfill its obligation to be fully responsive to the public and Congress in these matters. While we continue to have significant concerns over the process establishing and the substance underlying the SCC, public information on the estimates is paramount given its increasing application to federal—and state—programs. Despite President Obama’s Executive Order 13563 mandate to “promote predictability and reduce uncertainty” in the regulatory system, the Administration has used the SCC in an expansive and erratic manner with little to no public notice. The SCC was first applied to Department of Energy (DOE) conservation program standards and has since been cited in nearly 100 proposed and final rules from DOE, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Departments of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Agriculture. These include some of the most expensive and burdensome regulations. For example, all the climate-related benefits of EPA’s Clean Power Plan were derived from the SCC estimates. However, evidence indicates severe deficiencies in the models used, so a review of the public comments on the SCC could result in changes to the estimates and alter the rule before it is made final. Most recently, the Council on Environmental Quality proposed use of the SCC in its revised draft guidance for National Environmental Policy Act reviews, which may delay approval of individual infrastructure or energy development projects. Given these trends, OIRA responses to public comments on the SCC could ameliorate the regulatory uncertainty over future application of the estimates. OIRA responses to SCC comments and public access to information on the IWG is also necessary to comport with Presidential directives on the regulatory process. At the beginning of the Obama Administration, the President issued a Memorandum on Transparency and Open Government, which directed agencies to “establish a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration” because “[p]ublic engagement enhances the Government’s effectiveness and improves the quality of its decisions." Executive Order 13563 also acknowledged the public must have a “meaningful opportunity to comment” in the regulatory process. Yet, in regards to the SCC, the Administration has largely ignored these mandates. Above all, it is only reasonable for the public to know how OIRA plans to use their comments. We want to encourage public participation in the regulatory process, not stifle it by ignoring those individuals who engaged in the process by submitting comments. In an effort to preserve the integrity of the regulatory process and bring the much needed level of transparency to the IWG, we respectfully request OIRA’s cooperation and thorough responses to the following by no later than March 30, 2015: Please make arrangements for OIRA officials to provide a briefing for Congressional staff on OIRA’s involvement in the IWG and role in the public comment process. All documents and communications referring or relating to OIRA’s plans for reviewing the public comments. Please provide all documents in electronic format. How many comments were submitted, including those submitted to the online docket as well as those submitted directly to OIRA, during the public comment period? What were the major issues raised in the comments? Do any of the comments support revising the SCC estimates? Please make public all comments received on the SCC. What is OIRA’s process for reviewing the comments? Please provide the names and titles of reviewing officials and whether or not they participated in the IWG. What is the status of reviewing the public comments? Are there any plans for responding to the comments? If so, what is the reason for the delay in responding to the comments? Please specify the dates in which the review started and ended or is anticipated to end. Are there any plans for making responses to comments available to the public online? If so, where will comments be posted? Will responses to comments on the SCC reflect a consensus of the IWG? Has the IWG reviewed the comments? If so, what is the role of the IWG in reviewing the comments? Did the IWG review the comments after OIRA’s review or was it a simultaneous review? When did the IWG receive the comments? Please specify the IWG participants, including the names, titles, and agency, of each IWG participant reviewing the comments, and the dates in which each IWG participant’s review started and ended or is anticipated to end. What is the status of the IWG’s review of comments? If the IWG has not reviewed the comments, please indicate the reason and specify the plans, if any, the IWG has for reviewing the comments. Has the IWG reconvened to review the SCC estimates? If so, please specify what prompted its reconvening, the date it was reconvened, the number of times and dates the IWG has met, when the group plans to meet in the future, as well as who reconvened the group, the participants involved, the role of each participant, and provide any new materials being considered by the IWG. If not, please specify whether there are any plans for reconvening the IWG, including the date to be reconvened, expected participants and their role, and provide any new material the IWG plans to consider. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. If you have any questions with this request, please contact the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works at (202) 224-6176. Sincerely,
03.06.2015	03.06.15 Weekly Column: Stopping Iran's Nuclear Threat I recently had the opportunity to attend Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a Joint Meeting of Congress. His speech to us focused on the important bond between the U.S. and Israel, as well as our shared goal of preventing Iran from ever obtaining nuclear weapons. I was pleased to hear the Prime Minister’s thoughts, especially as the Administration negotiates with Iran to eliminate their nuclear program. Iran is a dangerous nation that threatens the security of the entire world. This terrorist regime supports Bashar Al-Assad in Syria, the Houthi militia in Yemen, Hezbollah and Hamas – all of which have targeted or killed Americans. The country’s radical and hostile agenda, including plans to destroy Israel, must be opposed. The administration’s deadline for laying out a framework of the agreement is the end of March. Prime Minister Netanyahu expressed his serious reservations about the administration’s approach to these negotiations. I hope the President will carefully consider the Prime Minister’s concerns. I believe the government of Iran is an enemy that cannot be trusted. Previous nuclear talks with Iran have been unproductive, and the Administration has been unable to secure a long-term deal that would force Iran to suspend its nuclear enrichment program. I am a cosponsor of the Nuclear Weapon Free Iran Act, which would reimpose economic sanctions on Iran if an agreement is not reached. Imposing sanctions on Iran will demonstrate our resolve and encourage Iran to end their nuclear program. Iran’s weak economy would suffer immensely under more sanctions. The Nuclear Weapon Free Iran Act also requires that any agreement reached with Iran would be subject to Congressional approval. If we allow Iran to maintain a nuclear program capable of creating nuclear weapons, other countries in the Middle East will certainly pursue nuclear weapon programs, ultimately creating a nuclear arms race in the most volatile region in the world. I am pleased Prime Minister Netanyahu addressed the Joint Meeting of Congress on this important issue. The United States has no greater ally in the Middle East than Israel. Israel has remained a steadfast ally, working with us to prevent the spread of violent extremism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the region, especially in Iran. Our relationship with them transcends both time and political theater, and it is imperative we continue to work together to defeat our enemies who would destroy us. A nuclear Iran threatens the entire world. This cannot be tolerated.
03.04.2015	03.04.15 Rounds Presses EPA on Economic Impact of Regulatory Proposals WASHINGTON —U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPA) Committee, today had the opportunity to question Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy about the agency’s process for determining the economic impact when proposing major new rules. In addition, he asked her to clarify EPA’s contradictory statements about the public comments received on the proposed Waters of the U.S. rule. Misleading statements could confuse the public into thinking the proposed rule, which received overwhelmingly negative feedback, was more favorable than EPA portrayed. “Much of what is coming out of the EPA would impose costly new mandates with little consideration given to the far-reaching effects these rules would have on the average American,” said Rounds. “It’s imperative we hold the agency accountable for its onerous, job-killing agenda by making sure they are using the most current, accurate information available and not skewing the facts in their favor.” The EPA is required under Executive Order to consider economic affects whenever writing a “major rule.” A 2014 government report found the EPA was using data from 1979-1991 when studying the economic impact of recently finalized major rules. As a result, the regulations the EPA was crafting for the U.S. were finalized with the assumptions that the U.S. economy 20 to 30 years ago was the same as it is today, and involves only four industrial sectors, which is not accurate and does not take into account the transformation the U.S. economy has undergone in the past several decades.
03.04.2015	03.04.15 Rounds Statement on NLRB’s “Ambush Election” Rule WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today supported a Joint Resolution of Disapproval, which he cosponsored, against the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) recent rule on “ambush elections,” The rule is scheduled to take effect on April 14, 2015. “With this rule, the NLRB isn’t looking out for workers or employers—it’s looking to protect big unions,” said Rounds. “By dramatically cutting the time between a union petition to a representation election, it not only limits the rights of employers, it pushes employees to make a hurried decision about organizing. Three unelected bureaucrats never should have made this decision in the first place.” In December 2014, the NLRB issued a final rule making drastic changes to union representation election procedures, known as “ambush elections.” The rule makes an end run around employers by cutting the time between a union petition and a representation election from approximately 38 days to as few as 11. Additionally, it would require employers to give unions personal information about employees, including personal cell phone numbers and personal email addresses.
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Rounds Statement on Netanyahu Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to Congress: “I thank Prime Minister Netanyahu for taking the time to address us today on our shared goal of stopping Iran from its nuclear ambitions. Our relationship with Israel transcends both time and political theater, and we must continue to work together to defeat our enemies which seek to destroy us. A nuclear Iran threatens the entire world and cannot be allowed to get nuclear weapons. I encourage the President to carefully consider the Prime Minister’s remarks today as he moves forward with his Iranian policy.”
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Rounds Joins Senate EPW Republicans in Taking a Stand for Academic Freedom WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, today joined all other EPW Republicans in a letter promoting scientific discovery and academic freedom. The letter was sent to the same 107 recipients of letters sent earlier this week by Congressional Democrats to universities, private companies, trade groups, and non-profit organizations, asking for detailed information on funding climate science. As explained in the EPW Republican letter sent today, there is a real concern the Democrats inquiry may impose a chilling effect on scientific inquiry and free speech. “Rather than empower scientists and researchers to expand the public discourse on climate science and other environmental topics, the [Democrats] letter could be viewed as an attempt to silence legitimate intellectual and scientific inquiry,” wrote the Senators in today’s letter. There has been a public outcry in response to the Democrats letters. Noted climate scientist, Dr. Michael Mann spoke of the letters calling them “heavy handed and overly aggressive.” Earlier today the American Meteorological Society warned that the letters sent by Congressional Democrats send a “chilling message to all academic researchers.” The full text of the letter can be found below: February 27, 2014 Dear _______, We write in regards to the recent request for information on your support of scientific research initiated by several of our colleagues in the United States Congress. At the outset, we are deeply concerned the letter calls into question the importance of scientific discovery and academic freedom. Rather than empower scientists and researchers to expand the public discourse on climate science and other environmental topics, the letter could be viewed as an attempt to silence legitimate intellectual and scientific inquiry. Federal government-sponsored research is good and necessary, but such funding has limits. The federal government does not have a monopoly on funding high-quality scientific research, and many of the nation’s environmental laws require decisions be based on the best scientific information available—not just federally funded research. At the core of American ingenuity are those researchers who challenge the status quo whether in matters of climate, economics, medicine, or any field of study. Institutions of higher-learning and non-governmental funding are vital to facilitating such research and scientific inquiry. Limiting research and science to only those who receive federal government resources would undermine and slow American education, economic prosperity, and technological advancement. The credibility of a scientific finding, research paper, report, or advancement should be weighed on its compliance with the scientific method and ability to meet the principles of sound science; in short, it should be weighed on its merits. The scientific method is a process marked by skepticism and testing, rather than dogma. If the work can be reproduced and independent experts have a fair chance to validate the findings then it is sound, irrespective of funding sources. Science the federal government uses to support regulatory decisions should also comply with the integrity, quality, and transparency requirements under the Information Quality Act and Office of Management and Budget Guidelines. Indeed, science is only one criterion we must take into consideration when developing laws and regulations. Credible deliberation requires thoughtful analysis and an understanding of the economy, policy, and legal framework in which we function. Dissenting opinions fostered through the encouragement of all ideas is what truly facilitates intellectual prosperity and political discourse. The letter you received from our colleagues is a wholly inappropriate effort to challenge these well-accepted truths. We ask you to not be afraid of political repercussions or public attacks regardless of how you respond. Above all, we ask that you continue to support scientific inquiry and discovery, and protect academic freedom despite efforts to chill free speech. Sincerely, Sen. Jim Inhofe, Chairman Sen. David Vitter Sen. John Barrasso Sen. Shelley Moore Capito Sen. Mike Crapo Sen. John Boozman Sen. Jeff Sessions Sen. Rodger F. Wicker Sen. Deb Fischer Sen. Mike Rounds Sen. Dan Sullivan
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Weekly Column: Academy Nominations Serving in the United States Senate comes with a lot of responsibilities, but nominating South Dakota students to the military service academies is one that I am really looking forward to. My first opportunity to nominate students to the academies will be this fall. Each member of the Congressional delegation will nominate students to the academies. The four service academies that require a Congressional Nomination are the Military Academy at West Point, New York; the Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. The Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut does not require a nomination by a member of Congress. All academies offer great opportunity for young people to become leaders in our nation’s military. Since only a small number of students are nominated to each class, being selected is very prestigious. It also isn’t easy. The service academies are looking for the best and the brightest. Interested students must meet eligibility requirements in leadership, physical fitness, character and scholarship. It is a rigorous program, but also highly rewarding. The service academies open a world of opportunity for their graduates. The young people joining the military directly from the academies are among the highest caliber our country has to offer—a result of the challenging training and education they received. Admission is a two-part process. First, the student must apply to the academy of his or her choice directly. After the student meets the admissions requirements of the academy, he or she can contact my office requesting a nomination. I have put together a screening committee who will help me review applications and conduct extensive interviews before I make my final decisions on nominees. After the student has received my nomination, it is up to the admissions office at each academy to ultimately decide who gets accepted. The process can be confusing, so to help students along the way, I plan to hold “Military Academy Day” events across South Dakota in the coming months. At these seminars, my staff will be joined by representatives from each academy to make presentations and answer questions from interested students and parents. Our first Military Academy Day will take place on March 28, 2015 at Southeast Technical Institute in Sioux Falls. The Sioux Falls Academy Day will be the first in a series across the state, including in Pierre and Rapid City. Others may be added, as well. I would encourage all high school students who are thinking about attending a military service academy to attend this informative event. More information about the Academy Day in Sioux Falls can be found on my website, www.rounds.senate.gov. By attending an academy, not only will students have the opportunity to serve our nation and help lead the best military in the world, but they will receive an excellent education at a top-notch institution. I encourage young South Dakotans interested in service to consider our military academies.
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Rounds Receives Assurances that Decision on Hot Springs is not Predetermined WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today received assurances from U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald that the agency has not made any premature decisions regarding the Hot Springs VA hospital. Rounds asked: Would you be able to assure the committee that the SCIP items in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget request regarding the Black Hills Health Care System are not an indication of a predetermined decision for the Hot Springs Hospital? McDonald assured: There’s no indication of any decision being made at Hot Springs. I have made no decision. We’re still collecting data, and the study is still being done. Full video of the exchange is available HERE. Yesterday, the delegation met with Sec. McDonald after the administration’s 2016 budget request proposed measures to close Hot Springs VA facilities, despite previous assurances that the VA would not act without finishing a fair and thorough Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). That prompted a delegation letter urging Sec. McDonald to withdraw all plans to reconfigure the Black Hills Health Care System from the Obama Administration’s budget proposal. Sec. McDonald has made a personal commitment to Rounds to continue to work with the delegation on the issue.
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Rounds Announces Military Academy Day in Sioux Falls WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his office is hosting a Military Academy Day in Sioux Falls so students can learn more about the academy enrollment process at our nation’s military academies. The Sioux Falls Academy Day will be the first in a series across the state, including in Pierre and Rapid City. Others may be added. “Our nation’s academies offer an opportunity to serve our nation while receiving top-notch education,” said Rounds. “The purpose of Military Academy Day is to provide students a one-stop opportunity to learn more about each of the academies and the application process. I encourage interested students and their families to attend.” Military Academy Day Saturday, March 28, 2015 at 9:00 a.m. Mickelson Center, Room 101 Southeast Technical Institute 2320 N Career Ave. Sioux Falls, SD 57107 Military Academy Day is an informational seminar for students and their parents interested in attending one of the five service academies: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. For more information about Military Academy Day or the academy nominations process, contact Michele Mustain at michele_mustain@rounds.senate.gov or call Rounds’ Sioux Falls office at (605) 336-0486.
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Delegation Meets with VA Secretary to Urge Reconsideration of Proposal to Close Hot Springs VA WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following a February 10 letter from the South Dakota delegation to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald urging the Obama administration to withdraw its budget proposal plans to reconfigure the Hot Springs VA, U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) held a delegation meeting today with the secretary to reiterate their concerns with the administration’s proposal to close the VA Medical Center. South Dakota Secretary of Veterans Affairs Larry Zimmerman, Deputy Secretary Aaron Pollard, and VA Black Hills Director Stephen DiStasio were also in attendance. At the meeting, Secretary McDonald assured the delegation that the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) process remains underway and that no decision has been made at this time. The VA expects the draft EIS to be released in June of 2015, which will be followed by a public comment period. Secretary McDonald has declined numerous invitations to visit the Hot Springs campus and the delegation encouraged him once again to visit Hot Springs as soon as possible. “I thank Secretary McDonald for meeting with the delegation today and following through on his personal commitment to me to remain engaged on this important issue,” said Rounds. “I appreciate his willingness to sit down with the delegation to make sure we are all working with the same data. I am also happy to have his assurance that no decision has been made on the reconfiguration of the Black Hills Health Care System. The Hot Springs VA hospital has the potential to become a national model for providing veteran care to rural veterans.” “Today’s meeting made clear what we’ve known for some time—the VA hasn’t been straightforward with South Dakota veterans,” said Thune. “I will hold Secretary McDonald to his pledge to reconcile the long-standing discrepancies in cost estimates and veteran impact data on the closure of the Hot Springs facility. After more than four years, I think they owe our veterans honest answers about the hiring practices and management decisions that have been made to get Hot Springs to this point. I urge the secretary to properly incorporate the new State Veterans Home in the EIS, and consider the healing potential of an expanded PTSD center in Hot Springs. The Obama administration should stop giving veterans this bureaucratic run-around and start providing answers.” “It’s critical that the secretary visit Hot Springs, talk to the veterans who use the facility, and see this community known as ‘Veterans Town,’ which is something I’ve pressed him on before and again today. I plan to hold him accountable for the assurances he made today: that he will visit Hot Springs after the EIS is completed but before any decision is made,” said Rep. Noem. “While it was good to hear assurances that the secretary plans to visit, the VA failed to offer veterans and the Hot Springs community any more clarity on the significant data discrepancies that have marred this entire process – nor did the agency give any certainty that the outcome of the EIS was not determined before the process even began. Our veterans deserve answers as well as a fair an unbiased EIS process. I am deeply concerned that they have not received either thus far. I strongly urge the secretary to consider the alternatives put forward by veterans in and around Hot Springs and will hold him to his promise to get to a point where we can all work off the same set of facts.”
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Rounds Meets With South Dakota Veterans WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today met with the South Dakota American Legion and the South Dakota Disabled American Veterans (DAV) in his Washington, D.C. office. “When our service men and women step forward to bravely serve our country, we must make sure we honor our promises to them,” said Rounds. “I thank the American Legion and DAV representatives for meeting with me today to share their experiences post-service. Their informed views will be tremendously helpful as we tackle these issues in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee.” Rounds also had the opportunity to speak with veterans during a joint Congressional hearing today. After thanking the veterans for their service and sacrifice, the group applauded Rounds for underscoring the important role the Veterans Administration plays in veteran care. Full video of the exchange is available here.
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Rounds: President 'Thumbed His Nose' at American People WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today expressed his disappointment in President Obama’s veto of the Keystone XL legislation. “Once again, the President has chosen to appease the far-left wing of his political base instead of doing what’s best for the American people,” said Rounds. “Our Keystone legislation is an important jobs, infrastructure and energy bill that received widespread, bipartisan support in Congress. In his veto, he has thumbed his nose at the American people who overwhelmingly support the project, our Canadian allies and the economic growth of our nation.” The State Department has issued five environmental impact studies, all of which showed Keystone is not expected to have any significant effects on the environment. In South Dakota, the pipeline would mean more tax money for schools. It would also free up our railways, allowing South Dakota farmers to ship their grain to market in a faster, more cost-effective way.
02.23.2015	02.23.15 Waters of the U.S. Rule Hurts South Dakota Producers In South Dakota, agriculture is our number one industry, accounting for more than half of our economic output. To be successful, our farmers and ranchers must be good stewards of their land so that it remains viable. And they are. South Dakota producers are inherently good conservationists - their livelihoods depend on it. They don’t need the Obama Administration interfering in their conservation efforts. Unfortunately, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers think they know how to manage our land better than us. Their latest proposal would redefine EPA’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act, expanding its regulatory authority to cover puddles, small ponds, field ditches and other areas with only remote connections to water, essentially allowing them to dictate farming operations. Over the President’s Day recess, I hosted a roundtable discussion with area stakeholders in Sioux Falls to hear firsthand how the Waters of the U.S. proposal would impact agriculture. Representatives from the South Dakota Corn Growers Association, the South Dakota Soybean Association, Ag United, Minnehaha County and the South Dakota Farm Bureau all showed up and told me the same thing—the proposed rule would significantly handicap their day-to-day operations. Under the new rule, my understanding is that if a farmer wanted to spray fertilizer on his fields but part of it was connected to water – even temporarily – that farmer would have to apply for a permit before he or she could proceed so as not to contaminate that water. And we all know how well the federal government is at processing paperwork. If the intent of the rule is merely to “clarify” the Clean Water Act and not change any policy – as EPA claims is the case – then they shouldn’t need this rule on the books at all. But I agree with farmers and ranchers that the rule would be a complete overhaul and expansion of EPA’s jurisdiction. In this case, I believe it is Congress’s duty to determine whether such a sweeping policy change is necessary. I’m confident that many of my colleagues would agree with me that the Waters of the U.S. proposal is completely unnecessary. In 1972, the Clean Water Act established a system that gives the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers the ability to regulate navigable waters, such as rivers. It allows local governments to monitor smaller water features, like ditches, ponds, and streams because state and local governments are more in touch with economic and environmental situations on the ground. This has been working for the past 43 years – without the heavy hand of Washington getting in the way. Giving the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers more control over our lives and land is both unnecessary and unwise. Every farmer and rancher I have talked to about this has agreed that the proposed rule would bog down their productivity with massive new regulatory hurdles. It is clear to me that the Waters of the U.S. proposal is fatally flawed. I will continue to seek ways to stop its implementation as a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over EPA and the Army Corps.
02.20.2015	02.20.15 Delegation Concerned 2015 Dietary Guidelines May Discourage Meat Consumption Washington, D.C. - Following a new report from the Obama administration’s Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee, which advises the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on the suggested 2015 dietary guidelines, U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) expressed their concern about the misleading and inconsistent guidelines on meat consumption in the report. Every five years, USDA and HHS review the dietary guidelines for American food consumption. The new report recommends to the secretaries what should be included in the dietary guidelines that will be issued later this year. The report leaves lean red meat out of what it considers to be a healthy diet, which is not only a great concern to dietitians who support consumption of lean red meat but is also concerning for the South Dakota livestock industry. “For this study to suggest that they cannot get adequate information to make a firm determination on the value of lean red meat in the diet is absurd,” said Rounds. “Instead, they are using misleading information, which is unfair to both consumers who look to these guidelines for sound advice and producers whose livestock business could be negatively affected. As our farmers and ranchers continue to seek ways to feed a growing global population, our government should find ways to empower, not hinder, our producers. I encourage the administration to consider the impacts of these misguided recommendations and remove them from the final report.” “It is hard to believe that the very agency tasked with promoting agriculture would encourage people not to eat meat,” said Thune. “From the short-lived Meatless Mondays, to misguided dietary guidelines, farmers and ranchers deserve more of an ally in the USDA, rather than an adversary. Misleading dietary guidelines would not only confuse consumers, but would also harm South Dakota’s livestock industry. I urge the Obama administration to reconsider the recommendations in the report, and I will continue to closely monitor the guidelines as they move forward.” “Dietary guidelines have historically been based on healthy eating and nutrition, but the Obama administration is inviting their environmental agenda to the dinner table,” said Noem. “We need a science and health based approach to nutrition, and that includes meat. South Dakota farmers and ranchers deserve better from the USDA. As a lifelong farmer and rancher and also as a mom, I know that good protein sources like lean meat are part of a healthy diet. This recommendation is misguided and I urge the administration to base their guidelines on what is good for the consumers and those who provide our meals.” The full report is available here.
02.20.2015	02.20.15 Rounds Statement on Fermilab Meeting PIERRE, S.D. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today made the following statement following a meeting with Fermilab Director Nigel Lockyer to discuss the planned Long-Baseline Neutrino Facility (LBNF) experiment: “I was pleased to meet with Director Nigel Lockyer to hear about the latest LBNF developments. Fermilab is leading LBNF for the Department of Energy, partnering with the Sanford Underground Research Facility to base the LBNF detectors for this world-leading neutrino experiment deep underground in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Construction of the facility is expected to have an immediate economic impact in South Dakota. I’m proud of the work being done by Director Lockyer, his team and the crew at Sanford Underground Research Facility to further scientific discovery. We welcome this opportunity here in South Dakota.”
02.17.2015	02.17.15 Rounds Announces Internship Opportunities in Washington, South Dakota Offices WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced internship opportunities in his Washington, D.C., Pierre, Rapid City and Sioux Falls offices for the summer 2015 semester. The summer semester will run from May to August 2015. College credit is available. Duties in the Washington, D.C., office may include tracking legislation, researching bills, attending committee hearings and briefings, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, handling constituent phone calls, sorting mail and providing legislative support. Duties in the South Dakota offices include researching constituent inquiries and requests, participation in outreach activities, assisting staff on special projects, handling phone calls and constituent requests and sorting mail. In all offices, students will work closely with constituents and staff, polish their research and writing skills and gain an in-depth understanding of a Senate office. Interested applicants should submit a resume, cover letter and preferred internship location to Connie Tveidt, intern coordinator, no later than March 15, 2015: Senator Mike Rounds Attn: Connie Tveidt 111 W. Capitol St., Suite 210 Pierre, SD 57501 Applications may also be emailed to connie_tveidt@rounds.senate.gov. More information about the internship program can be found at www.rounds.senate.gov. Additional questions can be directed to Connie Tveidt at (605) 224-1450.
02.13.2015	02.13.15 Rounds Announces Washington, South Dakota Office Information WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today announced his office locations and contact information. “I’m pleased to say that we are officially open for business,” said Rounds. “We have four offices throughout the state, staffed with knowledgeable individuals who look forward to assisting South Dakotans.” The Pierre, Sioux Falls and Rapid City offices will be open Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Aberdeen location will be open on Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Josh Haeder, the senior field manager, will hold office hours at the Huron Public Library every Monday (excluding federal holidays) from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. starting Feb. 23, 2015. He will also hold office hours in the Watertown Regional Library from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. a few times per month. The first meeting in Watertown will be on Thursday, Feb. 26, 2015. Watertown-area constituents should check local media for office dates, or contact the Aberdeen office.
02.13.2015	02.13.15 Weekly Column: Providing Regulatory Relief for Community Banks Small main-street banks are critical to the success of small businesses in South Dakota. They offer loans to farmers and support our small businesses that provide good jobs and essential services to all corners of our state. Often times, they also serve as community centers where birthdays, anniversaries, town meetings and other gatherings are held and lifelong memories are created. We understand that the longevity and prosperity of community banks are essential. Recently, financial institutions have been hounded by onerous rules and regulations, especially small community banks. With more than 6,500 community banks throughout the country supporting even the remotest areas, the federal government must make sure it is enabling, not hindering, their ability to function properly. Almost half of small businesses, which we all know are the driver of job creation and economic growth in America, are supported by small community banks. Providing these institutions with regulatory relief is critical. We recently examined ways we can help community banks during a two-part hearing in the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. During the hearings, we specifically focused on the need to roll back some of the regulations in the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law. Dodd-Frank was intended to clean up the mess caused by the housing finance collapse which had nothing to do with community banks. Unfortunately, this has hit small banks with unnecessary regulatory roadblocks. In the first part of our hearing, we questioned the regulators responsible for implementing these rules for community banks. I challenged officials concerning burdensome paperwork requirements. Currently, financial institutions are required to file periodic financial and other information with their respective regulators. These forms are currently 80 pages long and contain more than 670 pages of instruction material. Complying with this paperwork has been increasingly difficult for smaller banks with inherently fewer resources. I was pleased to hear many of the witnesses agree that reforms are necessary to ease these regulatory burdens. The second part of the hearing included testimony from community bankers. They offered additional insight on how we can best provide relief from some of the outdated and unnecessary regulations, and how specifically they have hindered their ability to be effective. The bottom line is this: if banks are going to be subject to a more intrusive regulatory environment, those costs will eventually be passed down to the consumer. And if community banks are put at a competitive disadvantage, then consumers – including many South Dakotans – would have less flexibility and fewer choices when it comes to financial decisions. This ultimately bogs down economic activity, beginning at the local level. Small community banks don’t think of banking in terms of ‘derivatives’ and ‘default swaps’ like they do on Wall Street; they think of banks in terms of how they can best serve their communities – their friends, neighbors, store owners and job providers. I wholeheartedly support efforts to provide them with regulatory relief and separate them from Wall Street banks and will continue to seek ways to do so as a member of the Senate Banking Committee.
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Rounds Applauds Senate Confirmation of Dr. Ashton Carter WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded the Senate’s confirmation of Dr. Ashton Carter to be Secretary of Defense. “Carter is the right person to lead our armed forces as we fight growing threats from ISIL and other terror groups,” said Rounds. “I voted to confirm Carter today, as I am confident he understands the needs of our service men and women and will seek to improve our long-term national security strategy. I had the opportunity to meet with him in person recently and firmly believe he will be an independent voice within the Administration. I look forward to working with him in the Armed Services Committee.”
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Rounds Joins President as Clay Hunt SAV Act Signed Into Law WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today attended the President’s bill signing ceremony for the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act at the White House. “I am grateful for the opportunity to join the President as he signed this very important bipartisan piece of legislation into law today,” said Rounds. “Our men and women in uniform put everything on the line to protect this country. Many of them struggle with the invisible wounds of war long after they leave the battlefield. They deserve top-notch, accessible mental health care.” The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act requires a new website to be built that offers veterans information on how to access mental health services. Additionally, it creates a medical school loan repayment program to recruit more VA psychiatrists. The bill was named for Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who committed suicide in March 2011 at the age of 28. It passed the Senate and House unanimously.
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Rounds Questions EPA on Costly Carbon Emissions Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today at a hearing questioned the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) plan to regulate carbon emissions. The proposal, expected to be finalized this summer, would impose costly new regulations on power plants, despite the Administration’s admission that it would do nothing to achieve its intended goal of reducing global warming. Rounds pressed: “We have a limited number of electric generating resources in South Dakota. Each facility is absolutely vital to meeting the energy needs of my state and our surrounding states. In light of this, what, if any flexibility is built into your proposed rule for a state like South Dakota and what flexibility is there for facilities that are in the midst of a major upgrade – at your direction – and are now being told they need to do even more to meet these additional regulations you plan on implementing?” Janet McCabe, Administrator for EPA’s Office of Air and Radiation, failed to assure Rounds of the rule’s flexibility and was unable to answer when asked for the rule’s cost per American family. A total of 31 states, including South Dakota, are on record opposing the Administration’s Clean Power Plan. South Dakota’s lone coal power plant, Big Stone, employs close to 100 people in Northeast South Dakota and is already under a $400 million project to comply with a different EPA regulation. Compliance is not yet complete, and this costly new rule could put the plant’s future in jeopardy, as Rounds noted in his questioning. Full video of his remarks is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b7wwv8dmwW8&feature=youtu.be
02.10.2015	02.10.15 Delegation Urges VA Secretary to Withdraw Plans to Close Hot Springs VA from Obama Admin. Budget Proposal WASHINGTON—U.S. Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) today urged Department of Veterans Administration (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to withdraw all plans to reconfigure the Black Hills Health Care System (BHHCS) from the Obama Administration’s budget proposal. Last week, the administration’s budget request proposed measures to close Hot Springs VA facilities, despite previous assurances that the VA would not act without finishing a fair and thorough Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The delegation writes: “…the VA’s FY 2016 Congressional Budget Submission targeting the Hot Springs VA Medical Center is a direct reversal of the VA’s repeated assurances that it would not proceed with a predetermined outcome. The request also serves to deepen the distrust of impacted veterans who well remember the VA’s budget request to vacate the campus without conducting an EIS. We request that the VA expressly remove all Enhanced Use Lease provisions pertaining to the Hot Springs VA from its FY 2016 budget request and judiciously proceed with the EIS.” Full text of the letter can be found below: February 10, 2015 The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We are writing to express our concern regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) budget submission for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. As you know, we continue to have concerns about the impact the VA’s proposal to reconfigure the Black Hills Health Care System (BHHCS). For over four years, the South Dakota delegation has been closely engaged with the VA and veteran stakeholders on this issue. Throughout this time, the VA has assured us that any final decision would not be made until it completed an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) in full accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. However, the inclusion of 14 separate line items in the VA’s FY 2016 Congressional Budget Submission targeting the Hot Springs VA Medical Center is a direct reversal of the VA’s repeated assurances that it would not proceed with a predetermined outcome. The request also serves to deepen the distrust of impacted veterans who well remember the VA’s budget request to vacate the campus without conducting an EIS. We request that the VA expressly remove all Enhanced Use Lease provisions pertaining to the Hot Springs VA from its FY 2016 budget request and judiciously proceed with the EIS. Moreover, given the persistent discrepancies with the data used to formulate the VA’s proposed reconfiguration of the BHHCS, as well as current concerns with management decisions, we again request the VA make every effort to return the Hot Springs VA to its former level of operations and staff before conducting a five-year review to gather reliable data. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.09.2015	02.09.15 Following Pressure from Delegation, FEMA Releases Timeline for Updated Sioux Falls Flood Map WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following pressure on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) from the delegation at a January 27, 2015, meeting, U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) received a timeline for the release of the updated Sioux Falls flood map. According to the February 5, 2015, letter, FEMA will provide a draft of the updated flood map along the Big Sioux River and Skunk Creek by June of 2015. The letter also outlined FEMA’s plans to issue a letter of final determination in the spring of 2016. Once the flood maps are finalized, most impacted homeowners who wish to cancel their flood insurance will likely be eligible for a refund of their annual flood insurance premium. “The draft flood map due in June of 2015 should provide more certainty for commercial developers in Sioux Falls,” said the delegation. “For too long, developers have been sidelined due to the financial hardships associated with building in the flood plain; however, the draft maps should provide guidance for what the new flood plain will look like and allow construction to get underway. We will continue to urge FEMA to approve a new flood map as quickly as possible, which will ease the financial burden on homeowners in the expanded floodplain.” Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005, FEMA began issuing new 100-year flood maps, which resulted in nearly 1,600 additional Sioux Falls homeowners and businesses being required to purchase costly federal flood insurance. In 2008, the city and the Army Corps of Engineers worked out an agreement to expedite construction of upgraded levees to decrease the size of the flood plain by allowing the city to fund the outstanding federal cost of the project, with the potential to be later reimbursed by the Corps. This agreement led to a less costly and timelier completion of the levees, and the city has since been reimbursed by the Corps for the federal share of the project. Now that the levees along the Big Sioux River and Skunk Creek have been upgraded and certified by the Corps, it is up to FEMA to issue a new flood map reflecting the new, smaller flood plain in Sioux Falls. Once a new flood map is finalized, many local residents and businesses will no longer be required to purchase federal flood insurance policies and others will have less expensive premiums due to the reduced risk of flooding. Without an updated flood plain map, economic development and construction along the Big Sioux River and Skunk Creek are significantly limited while developers wait for updated maps. On September 11, 2014, Thune and Noem sent a letter to FEMA Director Craig Fugate calling on the agency to develop a new flood map for Sioux Falls as soon as possible. The January 27, 2015, meeting continued the delegation’s work to push for a timely update to the flood map along Skunk Creek and the Big Sioux River.
02.05.2015	02.05.15 Rounds Receives Assurances from Secretary of Defense Nominee that he is committed to Restoring B-1B Bomber Readiness WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, yesterday received assurances from Dr. Ash Carter that he is committed to restoring B-1B bomber readiness. At his confirmation hearing today, Dr. Carter told Rounds that while there are other factors to consider, he remains committed to restoring the mission capabilities of the B-1B bombers. There are currently 27 B-1B bombers located at Ellsworth Air Force Base near Box Elder, South Dakota. The 28th Bomb Wing is one of only two B-1B bases in the world. Rounds pressed: “In your role, and I believe that you will be confirmed, what I’m looking for is a commitment that these men and women that are literally tasked with keeping these aircraft operational, that they have your full support to get the numbers back up to where they ought to be… Literally right now they’re taking out of the bone pile to harvest parts off to keep those aircraft flying today…” Carter responded: “I have the same understanding of the problem that you do and the same commitment you do.” Click here for video.
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Rounds Cosponsors Balanced Budget Amendment Washington—Today, Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) joined every Republican Senator in introducing a Balanced Budget Amendment, requiring the federal government to balance its books. “Washington spends too much money, plain and simple.” said Rounds. “In South Dakota, we understand the importance of spending taxpayer dollars wisely and we don’t spend what we don’t have. Washington ought to do the same.” “Taking significant steps to rein in spending, as the Balanced Budget Amendment would do, would send a strong signal to job creators that we are serious about growing our economy for the long haul. It would give them the confidence to invest and hire again.” Sen. Rounds’ weekly column on our debt and Balanced Budget Amendment is available HERE.
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Rounds Applauds Senate Passage of Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act WASHINGTON— Today, U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) voted to support the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. The Senate unanimously approved this legislation, with a vote of 99-0. It will now move to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Our men and women in uniform make incredible sacrifices to protect our freedoms, and the Department of Veterans Affairs has a responsibility to provide proper care for them when their service is complete,” said Rounds. “This includes offering quality, accessible mental health care to returning veterans, many of whom struggle with the invisible wounds of war long after they leave the battlefield. Our bill is a positive step toward offering them necessary assistance while streamlining programs to make sure our resources are being used effectively. I am pleased the full Senate understands the importance of taking care of our vets.” Statistics show that an average of 22 veterans take their own lives every day in the United States. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act calls for outside evaluations of all the current suicide prevention programs at the VA and the Department of Defense to make sure they are functioning as intended. Those found ineffective will come under review for improvement, consolidation or elimination. It also would require a new website to be built that offers veterans information on how to access mental health services. Additionally, it creates a medical school loan repayment program to recruit more VA psychiatrists. The bill was named for Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who committed suicide in March 2011 at the age of 28. An identical bill passed the House of Representatives 403-0 on Jan. 12, 2015.
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Rounds Cosponsors Obamacare Repeal Act WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today signed on to cosponsor legislation that would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. The bill has 44 cosponsors. “Obamacare isn’t working for American families, plain and simple. Now it’s our job in Congress to clean up the President’s mess,” said Rounds. “Premiums have skyrocketed for many and millions have lost their preferred doctor or insurance plan, despite promises to the contrary. Ideally, we will replace Obamacare with a market-based, patient-centered plan. Repealing and replacing Obamacare needs to remain a priority.” The Obamacare Repeal Act fully repeals Obamacare effective 180 days after its enactment, and provides Congress and the states the intervening six months to develop and vote on patient-oriented health care reform that will incrementally unravel Obamacare's structural damage to our health care system and economy. Congress must demonstrate its commitment to reducing healthcare costs and empowering American families with better innovations that save and improve lives.
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Senate Passes Keystone XL Legislation WASHINGTON--U.S. Senator Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) voted today to approve legislation authorizing the Keystone XL pipeline. It passed the Senate 62-36. “The Administration’s approval of the Keystone XL pipeline is long overdue,” said Rounds. “I’m pleased Congress took matters into its own hands and we were able to come together in a bipartisan manner to finally get this accomplished,” said Rounds. “This project will create jobs for hard-working South Dakotans and free up our railways to get more of our farmers’ grain to market. It’s a commonsense piece of legislation that the President should sign into law as soon as it hits his desk.” The Keystone XL pipeline will run through South Dakota and connect with an existing pipeline in Nebraska, carrying nearly 830,000 barrels of crude oil to U.S. refineries along the gulf coast. Rounds is one of 60 cosponsors to the legislation.
01.23.2015	01.23.15 Rounds Cosponsors REINS Act WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD) today cosponsored the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, offered by Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.). The REINS Act would require any executive branch rule or regulation with an annual economic impact of $100 million or more - designated by the President’s own Office of Management and Budget as a "major rule"- to come before Congress for an up-or-down vote before being enacted. “The REINS Act would bring much-needed Congressional oversight to a federal government run amok,” said Rounds. “The Administration has shown little regard for the impact its rules and regulations have on jobs, agriculture, the economy and American families. Our bill will bring an additional layer of oversight to protect Americans from wasteful, ineffective and downright harmful regulatory policies from a power-hungry Executive Branch.”
01.21.2015	01.21.15 Rounds Supports Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act WASHINGTON— Today, U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) supported the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, which passed out of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. The bill will now move to the full Senate floor for consideration. “Our men and women in uniform make incredible sacrifices to protect our freedoms, and the Department of Veterans Affairs has a responsibility to provide proper care for them when their service is complete,” said Rounds. “This includes offering quality, accessible mental health care to returning veterans, many of whom struggle with the invisible wounds of war long after they leave the battlefield. Our bill is a positive step toward offering them necessary assistance while streamlining programs to make sure our resources are being used effectively. I was pleased to vote it out of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee today.” Statistics show that an average of 22 veterans take their own lives every day in the United States. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act calls for outside evaluations of all the current suicide prevention programs at the VA and the Department of Defense to make sure they are functioning as intended. Those found ineffective will come under review for improvement, consolidation or elimination. It also would require a new website to be built that offers veterans information on how to access mental health services. Additionally, it creates a medical school loan repayment program to recruit more VA psychiatrists. The bill was named for Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who committed suicide in March 2011 at the age of 28. An identical bill passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support yesterday.
01.21.2015	01.21.15 Rounds Reacts to President's State of the Union Address WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD) made the following statement on the President’s State of the Union Address: “I appreciate the fact that the President at least acknowledged the need to work together to solve our country’s most pressing issues,” Rounds said, “but he must do more than pay lip service to bipartisanship in order to move our country forward. If the proposals he laid out tonight are any indication, I’m afraid he is not serious about working with the new Republican Congress. Instead, he offered more of his same failed policies and proposals that will raise taxes on American families, add to our already bloated debt and stifle energy and economic growth. “Most troubling of these proposals is his plan to raise taxes on hard-working Americans – to the tune of $320 billion dollars. The President might want you to think these tax increases will only affect the Warren Buffetts of the world, but don’t be fooled. The tax plan he proposed tonight would impact South Dakota small business owners, farmers, ranchers and entrepreneurs. The people who will be hit by this are your friends, your neighbors and Main Street store owners who provide good-paying jobs and essential services in South Dakota communities. “Americans made very clear in the last elections that they are tired of the same old Washington practices that have made government too burdensome, too big and downright ineffective. What South Dakotans are telling me is that they want us to work together on ideas that will make government more efficient and accountable. Republicans have already rolled up their sleeves to work on commonsense, bipartisan efforts to get government working again. It will be up to the President to decide whether he wants to join us in that conversation.”
01.06.2015	01.06.15 Senator Rounds Sworn Into Office Photos, Video Available WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD) made the following statement after taking the oath of office as South Dakota’s 27th Senator: “It’s an incredible privilege to continue serving the people of South Dakota, and I’m humbled by the trust you’ve placed in me to represent you in the United States Senate. Now that the pomp and circumstance is over, I’m ready to roll up my sleeves and get to work. I look forward to working closely with Sen. Thune and Cong. Noem to advance South Dakota priorities and values.”
