02.13.2019	Chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security Bennie Thompson (D-MS) today introduced legislation with Congressman John Katko (R-NY) to bolster funding for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and its workforce, ensuring that the agency has the necessary funds and resources to secure America’s air travelers and pay its dedicated Transportation Security Officers (TSO). Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. In 2013, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from airline passenger security fees to pay for unrelated government spending. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2019, $1.36 billion will be diverted away from aviation security. More than $19 billion in total will be diverted by FY 2027 unless current law is changed. The Funding for Aviation Screeners and Threat Elimination Restoration (FASTER) Act, H.R. 1171, would eliminate this diversion, ensure that passenger security fees go solely towards aviation security, and prevent Congress from raiding the funds in the future. The legislation would also give TSA access to September 11 Security Fee revenue during a lapse in appropriations, giving TSA much-needed flexibility to pay TSOs in the event of a future shutdown. “A stable, well-funded TSA is a critical component of our nation’s security,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “The FASTER Act will ensure that TSA gets the full funding that it needs—funding that is already paid by consumers—to invest in state-of-the equipment and hire additional staff in order to make air travel not only safer, but more efficient. In an era where government shutdowns are becoming more of the norm rather than the exception, TSA needs the ability to provide some financial stability to its hard-working TSOs, who are amongst the lowest-paid federal employees.” “It defies common sense that a big chunk of air passenger security fees are not going towards aviation security and the functions of the Transportation Security Administration,” said Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. “Alarmingly, billions have been diverted from TSA in recent years towards other purposes. This became even more apparent during the previous Trump shutdown when TSA was one of the impacted government agencies. This bill we are introducing again will allow TSA to retain the fees it collects so it can properly staff airports around the country, operate as efficiently as possible, and effectively secure the American public.” “Since coming to Congress, I’ve raised serious concerns about the need to improve our aviation security,” said Rep. John Katko (R-NY). “The FASTER Act achieves this goal by redirecting revenues accumulated by security fees and allows TSA to invest in a more robust airport security infrastructure. Ensuring the TSA is fully-staffed and has access to quality resources is essential to our national security, and I am proud to be a co-sponsor of this legislation that improves TSA preparedness.” “As 9/11 made all too clear, transportation security is not optional but absolutely essential for protecting our loved ones in the skies and on the ground,” said Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA). “For the TSA to carry out its mission, it needs ample resources to protect the nation’s transportation system. That’s why I’m proud to co-lead this legislative effort to help ensure that the September 11 Security Fee goes to its intended use – improving security at our airports and in the skies.” “The recent government shutdown underscored the importance of a strong TSA and well-funded aviation infrastructure,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, (D-CT). “The American people rightly expect the September 11th Security Fee be used for its intended purpose: to support the TSA and aviation security measures we all rely on to keep our families and skies safe. This bill will prevent these funds from being raided for other uses, bolstering TSA’s ability to keep the traveling public safe, reducing congestion at our nation’s airports, and securing funding for the salaries of TSA agents—even during a shutdown.”
02.08.2019	Rep. Peter DeFazio this week reintroduced four bills that would protect several critical salmon and steelhead habitats in southwestern Oregon and designate more than 30,000 acres of public land as Wilderness. “The lands protected in these bills are some of the most beautiful, pristine, and ecologically-diverse areas in Oregon,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR). “To leave these areas unprotected would be to subject them to pollution and mining, endanger drinking water for thousands of families, and devastate local recreation economies. These bills will preserve some of Oregon’s most spectacular natural beauty while protecting critical salmon and steelhead habitats as well as important watersheds.” Two bills, the Southwestern Oregon Watershed and Salmon Protection Act, H.R. 992, and H.R. 994, the Chetco River Protection Act, would prohibit new mining leases in several ecologically unique areas in Oregon, including Rough and Ready Creek at the headwaters of the Illinois River, Baldface Creek at the headwaters of the Smith River, the Chetco River, and Red Flat at the headwaters of Hunter Creek and the Pistol River. The waters protected by this legislation supply clean drinking water to thousands of residents of Southwest Oregon and Northwest California and are critical salmon habitats. Another bill, H.R. 999, would permanently protect Devil’s Staircase, a remote, unspoiled area in the Coast Range. The legislation would designate approximately 30,500 acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and U.S. Forest Service (USFS) lands as Wilderness. Wilderness lands have a special protected status against road construction and disturbances like logging. In addition, this legislation designates approximately 14.4 miles of the Wasson and Franklin Creeks, which support native Coho and Chinook salmon, trout, and steelhead runs, as Wild and Scenic Rivers. The Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area Designation Act, H.R. 1056, would designate almost 100,000 of public land in the Steamboat Creek Watershed in the Umpqua National Forest for salmon preservation. The legislation would honor Frank and Jeanne Moore’s lifelong efforts to protect the North Umpqua River and its tributaries.
02.06.2019	Today, the House passed legislation introduced by House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Peter DeFazio (D-OR), the Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2019, to help fund an earthquake early warning system that could save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. “It’s not a question of if a major earthquake will affect Oregon, but when,” said Chairman DeFazio. “When a major earthquake does hit, it’s estimated that thousands of Oregonians will be killed or injured and the state will suffer $32 billion in economic damages. My legislation directs FEMA to identify critical funding to purchase and install an earthquake early warning system that could save thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage. It also directs the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate our coastlines. We must take the threat of a catastrophic earthquake seriously, and this legislation is a good first step.” DeFazio’s legislation would require FEMA to develop a plan and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, manufacturing lines, close bridges, and protect students in unsafe schools. It can help reduce the long-term economic losses that are often excluded from damage estimates. A warning can have significant impact by alerting citizens of the need to take appropriate action when an earthquake occurs. “Cascadia poses a unique threat," said University of Oregon Earth Sciences Professor Doug Toomey. "'Congressman DeFazio's legislation recognizes that the "Sleeping Giant" requires an offshore/onshore monitoring system like the one Japan has developed. It would give scientists and the public necessary information that will make us safer and more resilient." The University of Oregon, along with the University of Washington and US Geological Survey, operates the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, one of three seismic networks that make up the backbone of the onshore west coast earthquake early warning system. BACKGROUND Oregon’s greatest risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” every 300 years or so causing major earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January 26, 2019 marked the 319th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake. Experts agree that Oregon is due for another major earthquake. Some forecasts suggest there is a ten to twenty percent chance of a magnitude 9 quake on the CSZ in the next fifty years, while others predict a twenty-five to forty percent chance of a major quake on the south end of the CSZ in the next fifty years.
02.05.2019	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union address: “For the past two years, President Trump has worked to make America less secure for working families. He has undermined our economic security by inflicting a needless government shutdown that forced nearly 10,000 Oregonians to be furloughed or work without pay. He’s threatened our border security by focusing on a symbolic wall at our southern border instead of making much-needed investments in our Customs and Border Patrol (CBP), Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and Coast Guard. He’s worked to chip away at protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. He’s endorsed policies that make it more difficult to afford the cost of a higher education. And he’s allowed the failed trade policies of the last twenty-five years to continue, shipping family-wage jobs overseas and allowing our trade deficits to skyrocket. “The president is holding the American people hostage as the threat of another government shutdown looms large. The recent shutdown – the longest in American history – cost the U.S. economy $11 billion and pushed many of the more than 800,000 federal employees and contractors forced to go without their paychecks to the brink of financial disaster. “That’s why I invited Coast Guard Master Chief Petty Officer Jason Vanderhaden as my guest to tonight’s address. MCPO Vanderhaden represents the thousands of brave men and women who protect our nation’s waterways—the only branch of our military that was forced to go without a paycheck during the government shutdown. “Unfortunately, President Trump continues his relentless pursuit of funding for a wall along the southern border. We cannot address 21st century challenges with medieval technology. I believe that we need strategic, evidence-based investments in our ports of entry and our maritime border that will allow us to prevent drug, human, and weapons smuggling, deter people who attempt to illegally enter the United States, deport those that commit crimes, and regain control of our borders. “Congress needs to invest in state-of-the-art technology to locate drugs, weapons, and humans hidden in vehicles and cargo containers crossing at legal points of entry. We also need substantial investments in the Coast Guard, including additional personnel, offshore cutters, fast-pursuit boats, helicopters, air support, and more, in order to give the Coast Guard the resources it needs to target, detect, and disrupt more than the 20 percent of known drug movements it currently intercepts. We also need to hire more judges for our immigration court system, which has a backlog approaching one million cases, and to invest in proven, reliable alternatives to detention programs, such as the Family Case Management Program, that will ensure people awaiting immigration court proceedings show up for their hearings. “Tonight, President Trump said that investing in our transportation infrastructure should be one area where Democrats and Republicans unite. I agree—our crumbling roads, bridges, transit and rail systems, airports, and harbors impact every community across our country. None of this can happen, however, if we continue to ignore the looming crisis facing the Highway Trust Fund. We face a $1 trillion surface transportation investment gap over the next 10 years to fix the infrastructure we have, meet future needs, and restore our global competitiveness. Any serious infrastructure proposal must provide sustainable, long-term federal funding so we can make these necessary investments, create millions of living-wage American jobs, increase economic growth, and decrease congestion and emissions. I will work to build bipartisan agreement around legislation, but I can’t do it alone. This will require massive effort from the White House, stakeholders, and supporters in Congress to get something real across the finish line. “Tonight, we heard President Trump lay out his vision for a bipartisan drug pricing deal. However, any plan to address our nation’s shortfalls on this vital issue must include finally allowing Medicare to directly negotiate drug prices. My legislation, the Prescription Reduction in Costs for Everyone (PRICE) Act, would repeal the prohibition on the federal government’s ability to negotiate Medicare Part D drug prices. Under the current system, drug companies have free reign to charge Medicare recipients whatever they want for prescriptions. This system has resulted in billions of dollars in handouts for drug companies over the years, while seniors across the country regularly ration their medications because they can’t afford the high costs of their prescriptions. Every other country in the developed world permits their government to negotiate drug prices for their citizens—it’s well past time that the U.S. does the same. “We cannot expect to prepare our nation’s young people to be competitive in a 21st century economy if we do not provide them a pathway to an education. However, for too many Americans, the financial barriers to obtaining and paying for a higher education are insurmountable. I believe an education—whether from a vocational school, a community college, or a traditional four-year college—ought to provide opportunities for students, not financial burdens. Unfortunately, the Trump Administration has enacted policies that have made it more difficult for young people to afford a higher education and has repeatedly supported predatory lenders over consumers. That’s why I’ve introduced legislation, the HIGHER ED and AID Acts, that would make it easier for students to attend and pay for higher education. “President Trump has repeatedly promised to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement’s (NAFTA) disastrous policies or end U.S. involvement in the pact altogether. Despite these promises, the outsourcing of family-wage American jobs has continued, our trade deficit has ballooned, and the revised NAFTA promotes many of the same damaging provisions as its predecessor. “While the agreement addresses some of the long-standing issues I have fought against, the deal falls short of what the president promised and does not truly protect American jobs, workers, or our environment. As currently written, the agreement would not stop corporations from pursuing the same job outsourcing policies inflicted upon working families by the original agreement, fails to require participating countries to adopt and enforce environmental protections, and delivers big pharmaceutical corporations new powers to block competition from generic manufacturers and lock in high prices for Americans’ prescription drugs. “We need a deal that puts American workers and families ahead of big corporations. I remain committed to much-needed improvements, including tougher labor and environmental standards, in order to create a trade deal that works for all Americans, not just the wealthiest.”
01.11.2019	Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, requested a meeting with Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator David Pekoske to discuss ways to provide financial relief to Transportation Security Officers (TSO) during the government shutdown. In particular, the lawmakers urged Administrator Pekoske to brief them on ways TSA uses the funds it collects from the September 11 Passenger Security Fee and if these funds can be used to provide wages to TSOs currently working without pay. In their letter to Administrator Pekoske, the lawmakers write, “Today marks TSA employees’ first missed paycheck, and many of them will struggle to meet their financial obligations as a result. This jeopardizes not only the financial well-being of these hard-working individuals and their families, but could also ultimately threaten our nation’s aviation security.” Chairmen DeFazio and Thompson have previously introduced legislation, the FASTER Act, which would end the diversion of funds collected from the Passenger Security Fee and ensure those funds only go to aviation security. To view a PDF version of the letter click here.
01.09.2019	Today, Oregon lawmakers applauded legislation introduced by Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) that would provide funding for the Coast Guard and ensure that active duty and reserve members of the Coast Guard are paid during the government shutdown. Members of the Coast Guard are the only members of the United States military not being paid for their critical and continuing operations. The shutdown impacts over 41,000 active duty Coast Guard members, 6,200 reservists, and 8,500 civilian personnel. According to the Coast Guard, an estimated 31% of active duty Coast Guard members do not have enough money in an emergency savings fund to cover one month’s worth of expenses. “President Trump and his Mar-a-Lago cronies may not have trouble ‘adjusting’ if they miss a paycheck, but for thousands of Oregon families, a paycheck means a mortgage payment, childcare, or a medical bill,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “More than 1,200 Active Duty Coast Guard personnel and reservists stationed in Oregon are currently working without pay or furloughed while President Trumps holds their wages hostage. While the President obsesses over a wall that experts agree will not make our nation safer, he is ignoring the men and women who protect our coastlines every day. The Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act will provide financial stability to these men and women by ensuring they get paid despite the government shutdown.” “Many of our public servants are stretched thin this month due to the government shutdown,” said Congressman Schrader (OR-05). “That includes our Coast Guard, who are missing paychecks because of the failures of the Federal Government, but are still expected to perform their necessary duties. Oregon is mourning the loss of three fishermen this week from a capsized fishing boat that our Coast Guard valiantly risked life and limb to save. We are asking them to do their job serving and protecting our communities, which sometimes means life or death situations, without pay. Meanwhile Congress can’t do its number one job. What kind of message is that? Those keeping us safe, especially, don’t deserve to suffer because of our failures. Congress must step it up and fully fund the government.” “It is unacceptable that the government shutdown has affected the men and women of the US Coast Guard, who provide critical protections for our coastal and riverfront communities in many ways,” said Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01). “About 500 Coast Guard members are stationed in Astoria; they deserve to be paid on time. This shutdown is creating unnecessary hardship for the families of those who put their lives on the line to keep our country and communities safe. Passing the Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act would provide relief for these service members and allow them to stay focused on their mission.” The Pay Our Coast Guard Parity Act, which mirrors a Senate companion bill, provides funding during any period during which interim or full-year appropriations for the Coast Guard are not in effect. The Pay Our Coast Guard Act provides for: Pay and allowances for active duty and reserve members of the Coast Guard; Pay and allowances for civilian employees of the Coast Guard; Pay and allowances for contractors of the Coast Guard; Payment of death gratuities with respect to members of the Coast Guard; Payment or reimbursement of authorized funeral travel and travel related to the dignified transfer of remains and unit memorial services with respect to members of the Coast Guard; Temporary continuation of a basic housing allowance for dependents of members of the Coast Guard dying while on active duty; and Coast Guard retired pay and benefits. # # #
01.04.2019	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement after his selection as Chairman of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee for the 116th Congress: “Every state and territory in our country is profoundly affected by the decisions made in this committee. Our communities and businesses depend on our network of roads, bridges, airports, rail, ports, and public transit to move people and goods safely, whether it is across town, across the country, or internationally. And millions of American jobs are directly tied to the health of our infrastructure. “We are approaching a transportation crisis in our country, and with that in mind, I am especially honored to have the strong support of my colleagues to lead the caucus as the new Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “As Chairman, I will be a tireless advocate for the kind of infrastructure investment that results in job creation, increased economic growth, and decreased emissions. I will fight for common sense, comprehensive solutions to address the major issues facing our aging, 20th century infrastructure and champion a smarter, greener infrastructure that helps to reduce carbon pollution, and is more resilient and better equipped to handle the impacts of climate change. I will work to build bipartisan agreement around legislation that strengthens the federal responsibility for maintaining and providing access to transportation for all Americans. I will balance this with our duty to provide reasonable and responsible oversight of the Trump Administration’s implementation of laws under the Committee’s jurisdiction. “I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in order to achieve our shared goals. Together, we can lay the groundwork for infrastructure investment that delivers for generations to come.”
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Grace Napolitano (D-CA) released the following statements after the Trump administration released a proposal to significantly limit which of our Nation’s waterways are protected by the Clean Water Act. “Today, too many Americans are uncertain whether their drinking water is safe for themselves and their families. Now is not the time to cut back on the protections of our nation’s clean water,” the Members said. “Clean and safe water is a basic human need. Unfortunately, this Administration has made it a priority to dismantle the Clean Water Act, regardless of the science or the law. The President’s #DirtyWaterRule puts our water and health at risk, and must be stopped.”
12.06.2018	Congressman Peter DeFazio, expected incoming Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for the 116th Congress, along with Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today announced that the federal Department of Transportation is awarding two major grants to Oregon ports. The Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) grants will go to the Port of Morrow and the Port of Coos Bay. The Port of Morrow in Boardman, OR, will receive $19.4 million, while the Port of Coos Bay will receive $20 million, both for rail investments. “This is great news for Southwest Oregon,” said DeFazio, expected Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for the 116th Congress. “These funds will be used to improve the rail line and help major employers in the Coos Bay area get their goods to market. This is exactly the type of federal investment we need to improve our long-term economic viability and put Americans back to work rebuilding our vital infrastructure.” “This is huge news for Oregon’s rural infrastructure,” said Merkley, who has used his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to fight for federal investments in Oregon’s communities. “These grants are a huge boost to developing the rail infrastructure we need to make Oregon’s economy even more competitive in the 21st Century.” “This big-time investment in Oregon’s ports and rail infrastructure will have a tremendous impact on the Oregonians living and working in Morrow County, as well as for Oregonians in communities along the Coos Bay Rail line from Coquille to Eugene,” Wyden said. “You can’t have a big-league economy without big-league infrastructure, and I am gratified to have worked with the delegation to achieve these significant wins for jobs and the economy in rural Oregon.” The Port of Morrow will use its funds to extend its existing rail network from the Union Pacific mainline to reach four marine terminals on the Columbia River. These enhancements would enable the transloading of commodities directly between barge ships and railcars to create cost-effective shipping options for new and existing industries at the Port. “These resources provide a huge shot in the arm for the Port of Morrow and the local economy throughout northeastern Oregon,” said Ryan Neal, Executive Director of the Port of Morrow. “As Oregon’s second largest port, this expansion of our rail and marine terminal network carries benefits for our entire state. We are very thankful for the strong support shown by Oregon’s congressional delegation of our project.” The Port of Coos Bay will use its funds to replace or upgrade three swing-span bridges along the 134-mile Coos Bay Rail Line between Eugene and Coquille in order to meet Federal Railroad Administration-mandated load rating requirements. Additionally, the Port will use funds to upgrade steel structures between Coos Bay and Eugene to increase train load capacities and speed targets necessary to maintain continued traffic growth on the line. These will increase overall safety and reliability of the line, and extend the life of the upgraded structures for 20 years or more of continuous operations. “We greatly appreciate the wonderful support we received from the Oregon Delegation, which was key in our receipt of the BUILD grant,” said John Burns, Chief Executive Officer, Port of Coos Bay. “This project will make improvements to critical infrastructure on the Coos Bay Rail Line, ensuring sustainable freight rail transportation for southwestern Oregon businesses into the future.” ###
11.29.2018	“Tomorrow, President Trump will sign the text of NAFTA 2.0 along with Mexico and Canada. Although the president has repeatedly and emphatically stated that he would get rid of the disastrous trade policies of the last twenty-five years, this agreement promotes many of the same damaging provisions as its predecessor. As currently written, this agreement does not truly protect American jobs, American workers, or our environment. “While I’m pleased the deal addresses some long-standing issues I have fought against, including threats to U.S. highway safety, the agreement remains incomplete. The agreement contains new labor standards and protections for workers, but lacks the proper mechanisms to enforce them. Without robust enforcement of these standards, American workers will continue to suffer from the same job outsourcing inflicted upon working families by the original agreement. Furthermore, the new agreement does not address climate change and fails to require participating countries to adopt and enforce environmental protections. I remain committed to working on much-needed improvements to the agreement in order to create a trade deal that works for all Americans, not just the wealthiest.”
11.27.2018	Today, the United States House of Representatives passed S. 140, the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018, which includes language from Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) that should keep the Newport air facility open permanently. S.140 also authorizes funding for the Coast Guard, one of the nation’s five armed services, through fiscal year 2019 and supports the service’s plans to recapitalize and modernize its assets to carry out its critical missions. “It is impossible to overstate how critical having search and rescue helicopters nearby is to Oregon’s fishing industry, coastal visitors and residents. The Newport air station handles half the emergency calls on the Central Oregon Coast and without it, people in imminent danger will have to wait for a helicopter from North Bend or Astoria to rescue them. It is imperative that the Newport air facility stay open, and I will continue to do everything I can here in Washington DC to ensure that the Newport AIRFAC continues to provide lifesaving services for future generations,” said DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and lead Democratic sponsor and negotiator in the House of Representatives on the Coast Guard Authorization Act. “With today’s passage of the Coast Guard reauthorization, we have been able to ensure that the air facility in Newport will continue to serve its critical mission protecting our fishing industry and visitors on the central Oregon Coast. Protecting this asset is paramount and has been a top priority of those of us in the Oregon delegation. I have been proud to partner with our coastal community back home and thank them for their tireless efforts to help make this happen,” said Rep. Kurt Schrader (OR-05). Due to budget cuts, the Coast Guard threatened in 2014 to close the Newport air facility, which handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast. S. 140 includes a provision to guarantee that the Newport air facility will stay open and serve Oregon’s coastal communities into the future. DeFazio was a key negotiator and co-sponsor of the bipartisan legislation, which includes several bipartisan bills previously approved by the House or the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure earlier this Congress. Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy.
11.21.2018	Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) will allocate an additional $34.5 million in Fiscal Year 2019 to critical maintenance and safety projects at ports along the Oregon coast. “Oregon’s ports are the lifeblood of coastal economies and rely on federal funding to maintain navigation channels and to ensure the safety of those channels for commercial fishing and recreation,” said DeFazio. “This additional funding will help ensure Oregon’s ports stay open for business and help support coastal communities.” The funding will support necessary operations and maintenance projects at Ports across Oregon’s coast including dredging harbors, bays, and river channels. Furthermore, the projects will improve access for search and rescue crews stationed at multiple coastal ports. With this additional funding, the Corps will be able to dredge River Mile 12-15 of the Coos Bay River, restoring direct ocean access to multiple port customers. This part of the river has not been maintained since 2010 and needs dredging to support the growing economic activity at the Port of Coos Bay. In addition, $954,000 will be added to dredge the Winchester Bay boat basin entrance of the Umpqua River to allow better access to the U.S. Coast Guard search and rescue crew stationed in Reedsport. Ranking Member DeFazio organized a letter to the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works in October in support of additional funding for Oregon’s ports. The letter was signed by Senators Wyden and Merkley, as well as Representatives Blumenauer, Schrader and Bonamici. A list of additional funding allocated to ports in Oregon’s fourth congressional district is below: Chetco River - $45,000 Coos Bay - $9,727,000 Coquille River (Bandon) – $411,000 Rogue River (Gold Beach) $963,000 Siuslaw River $1,098,000 Umpqua River (Reedsport/Salmon Harbor) - $954,000 --30--
11.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio and U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley today announced Senate passage of additional protections for the lifesaving Coast Guard air facility in Newport, Oregon that were included in the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018. “This facility is critical to the Coast Guard’s search-and-rescue operations. It can make the difference between life and death both for central Oregon Coast residents and visitors to our state’s beaches,” said Wyden. “Today’s action is a positive step forward, but I won’t stop fighting until we have a permanent solution to keep this essential rescue station open.” “This reauthorization greatly strengthens our ability to keep lifesaving Coast Guard helicopters on the job in Newport,” Merkley said. “This victory will preserve a critically important asset for our coastal communities and visitors.” “It is impossible to overstate how critical having search and rescue helicopters nearby is to Oregon’s fishing industry, coastal visitors and residents. The Newport air station handles half the emergency calls on the Central Oregon Coast and without it, people in imminent danger will have to wait for a helicopter from North Bend or Astoria to rescue them. It is imperative that the Newport air facility stay open, and I will continue to do everything I can here in Washington D.C. to ensure we have a permanent resolution to this problem,” said DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and lead Democratic sponsor and negotiator in the House of Representatives on the Coast Guard Authorization Act. The lawmakers have tirelessly advocated to keep the Newport air facility open. It is one of Oregon’s few deep-draft ports and is home to the state’s largest commercial fishing fleet and several National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration vessels. A web version of this release is available here.
10.24.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke decrying House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop’s efforts to overturn the Southwestern Oregon Mineral Withdrawal. “The prohibition on mining on the Smith River and the headwaters of Hunter Creek and Pistol River has broad, overwhelming support from thousands of residents of southwest Oregon, local governments, businesses and community leaders,” said Representative Peter DeFazio. “Not only has this withdrawal been discussed, debated and endorsed by the surrounding communities and supported by federal agencies, it has undergone a rigorous review process and has been repeatedly upheld. Chairman Bishop ought to end his ridiculous crusade against our public lands and respect the will of Southwest Oregon.” “Oregonians have been loud and clear on this issue. They want this unique and pristine area protected from mining. The safety of the drinking water in these communities depends on it. I will not stand by and allow their voices to be drowned out, nor allow the public process that led to the withdrawal be dismissed,” said Senator Ron Wyden. “Misguided efforts to overturn these protections must be rejected.” “Mining in this area would pose an unacceptable threat to drinking water and fish runs,” Senator Jeff Merkley said. “The public process overwhelmingly favored protection for these waters, and our delegation has fought to ensure Oregonians’ wishes are honored. We can’t—and won’t—allow these pristine Southern Oregon treasures to be lost.” Rep. DeFazio and Senators Wyden and Merkley have repeatedly introduced the Southwestern Oregon Watershed and Salmon Protection Act to protect this iconic area, knows as “America’s Wild Rivers Coast.” Chairman Bishop has been a frequent opponent of the Southwestern Oregon Mineral Withdrawal. He has previously used the area as an example of a mining ban that should be rescinded, as he did in a 2017 letter to Secretary Zinke and U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. To view a PDF version of Representative DeFazio and Senator Wyden and Merkley’s letter to Secretary Zinke, click here.
10.05.2018	Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Walter Jones (NC-03) Thursday led more than 50 members of Congress in sending a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo demanding he provide all documents justifying his decision to certify that the Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) coalition is making demonstrable efforts to reduce civilian casualties in Yemen’s civil war. On September 12, Secretary Pompeo certified, as required by law, that the governments of Saudi Arabia and the UAE are undertaking demonstrable actions to reduce the risk of harm to civilians and making urgent and good-faith efforts to support diplomacy to end the civil war in Yemen. However, recent reports indicate that most State Department experts concluded the certification should have been rejected “due to lack of progress on mitigating civilian casualties.” Given the U.S.’s significant role in the Yemeni civil war, the lawmakers urged Secretary Pompeo to share these documents and stressed the need to end U.S. military support for the coalition in Yemen. “The Trump Administration is hurtling towards another unending conflict in the Middle East, and Congress must be a backstop to unethical, unnecessary military conflict,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio. “I am concerned about the reports that Secretary Pompeo ignored the advice of State Department and Pentagon experts. President Trump and Secretary Pompeo must share all relevant information with Congress and the American people, not just the parts that feign justification for continued action in Yemen. It is imperative that the administration respects Congress’s constitutional authority in deciding the scope of U.S. troop engagement.” “Congress and the American public deserve full transparency. That’s especially true when it comes to the use of taxpayers’ money on unauthorized foreign entanglements,” said Congressman Walter Jones. “The war in Yemen is a humanitarian catastrophe. Civilians are bearing the brunt of this brutal war, facing violence, famine and an unprecedented cholera outbreak. With American assistance, the Saudi Arabian/UAE coalition is escalating attacks with no regard for civilian lives,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “The fact of the matter is that the United States Congress has never authorized this war. And Secretary Pompeo’s certification that the Saudi coalition is reducing civilian casualties is completely unjustified and unsubstantiated. The U.S. government should be leading diplomatic efforts to end these atrocities, instead of prolonging this bloody, inhumane war.” "We are heartened to see that even as Trump and his war cabinet dig their heels in—as evidenced by Sec. Pompeo’s misleading and institutionally unsupported certification—Congress will not let up its pressure,” said Stephen Miles, Director of Win Without War. “Reps. DeFazio, Jones, Lee and 48 others understand that millions of Yemenis continue to suffer, starve, and die because of a U.S.-fueled war that Congress has never authorized. We applaud this letter and know that similar efforts to thwart Trump and his partners in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates from continuing their war in Yemen are just around the corner." “For the Trump administration to report that Saudi Arabia and the UAE are taking sufficient action to reduce harm to civilians makes a mockery of the law that Congress passed as a condition for U.S. military support in this unconscionable war,” said Diane Randall, Executive Secretary, Friends Committee on National Legislation. “We applaud the leadership of Representatives Peter DeFazio, Barbara Lee, and Walter Jones in demanding answers for the questionable process that led to Secretary Pompeo’s certification decision. Quakers and friends across the country are pressing their members of Congress to hold the Trump administration accountable for their harmful whitewashing of the Saudi-led coalition’s slaughter of civilians and its starvation-blockade of Yemen.” The letter is also supported by Demand Progress Action, Just Foreign Policy, PeaceAction, and the Yemen Peace Project. For a PDF version of the letter, click here.
10.03.2018	Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Jared Huffman (CA-02) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today sent a letter to the United States Forest Service (USFS) urging the agency to regularly advise the lawmakers as they review the validity of a mining claim within the Southwestern Oregon Mineral Withdrawal Area. The letter was sent to the new Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest Supervisor, Merv George, and the new Regional Forester for the USFS Region 6, Glenn Casamassa. The lawmakers wrote in the letter, “As you are new to your respective positions, we want to inform you of our long-standing interest in protecting the lands within the withdrawal area…As you are aware, the withdrawn area contains the headwaters of Hunter Creek and Pistol River, as well as sections of the Rough and Ready and Baldface Creeks. It also provides some of the cleanest drinking water in the nation to communities in Southwest Oregon and Northern California, and contains one of the highest concentrations of rare and endemic plants in North America. There is strong community support for the withdrawal by residents, businesses, and local officials. We ask that you exercise the utmost due diligence as you move forward.” In 2017, the lawmakers secured a twenty-year ban on new mining projects in the watershed of the National Wild and Scenic North Fork Smith River in Oregon, the watershed of Rough and Ready Creek (an eligible Wild and Scenic River and tributary to the National Wild and Scenic Illinois and Rogue rivers). These rivers are known for their wild salmon and steelhead populations, clean drinking water, and provide vital economic, recreational and natural resources to the area. While the withdrawal protects the land from new mining claims, companies with valid existing claims can mine within the protected area. The USFS must rigorously review all existing mining claims to ensure their validity before allowing any mining activity within the area. The Red Flat Nickel Corporation (RFNC), a foreign-owned mining company that currently holds claims within the withdrawal area, has submitted a proposal to advance one of its mining claims, endangering critical salmon populations and drinking water sources for much of Southwestern Oregon and Northern California. A PDF version of the letter can be found here. # # #
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today released the following statement on the release of the United States-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) Agreement: “While I am still reviewing the text of the new trade deal, I am extremely disappointed that the Trump administration was unable to follow through on their promise to eliminate the damaging Chapter 19 provision that existed in the original North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA),” said Rep. DeFazio. “The preservation of Chapter 19 is a tremendous blow to American businesses and workers, particularly in the softwood lumber industry. For decades, Canada has used Chapter 19 to undermine U.S. trade law and challenge our anti-dumping and countervailing duties. This provision allows a foreign tribunal of private citizens to overturn U.S. trade remedies designed to level the playing field between the U.S. and the heavily-subsidized Canadian softwood lumber industry.” “Despite the administration’s promises that the U.S. will be able to strongly enforce U.S. trade law under this new agreement, it remains unclear exactly how American workers and industry will be able to protect themselves against Canada’s unfair trade practices. While we still don’t have the final details of the new agreement, I am hopeful that the Trump administration will provide assurances that U.S. industries, including softwood lumber, will be protected through other parts of the agreement, as well as determining a way to ensure new provisions governing fair labor practices will be strictly enforced.” “I am pleased, however, with the improvements made to cross-border trucking services between the U.S. and Mexico. I have expressed concerns about the inability to enforce U.S. safety standards for cross-border trucking since the original NAFTA was introduced by President Clinton, and am encouraged that progress is being made to rectify this long-standing issue. Mexico has no meaningful system for commercial driver’s licenses, drug testing or hours of service, and any trade deal that allows Mexico to force these trucks onto our roads is a threat to public safety. I look forward to continuing to work closely with stakeholders, as well as the administration, on the implementing legislation and new regulations.”
09.26.2018	Today, the United States House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation that will enhance aviation safety, strengthen consumer protections, and boost the U.S. and Oregon’s economy and aviation workforce. The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302) is a five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). As the top Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) was a lead Democratic negotiator of this bipartisan, long-term legislation. “The FAA reauthorization legislation passed today includes critical provisions, many of which I authored, that will improve aviation safety and the air travel experience for more than 900 million passengers who fly in the United States each year. The bill strengthens consumer protections: It directs the FAA to address shrinking airplane seat sizes and legroom, it prohibits airlines from involuntarily removing passengers from flights after they’ve cleared the boarding gate, and it requires airlines to communicate better with customers during mass flight cancellations and groundings. I fought for critical safety measures that will ensure flight attendants receive 10 hours of rest between duty periods, and require the FAA to review airliner evacuations to ensure that tightly packed planes can be evacuated in under 90 seconds. While this legislation isn’t perfect, it is the product of a strong bipartisan effort that will improve and advance the U.S. aviation system for years to come,” said DeFazio. The FAA Reauthorization Act also includes a provision DeFazio authored that provides a pathway to ensuring safe and secure drone operations and, ultimately, the deployment of new technologies that will unlock drones’ potential. The bill also includes new criminal penalties for people who knowingly or recklessly fly drones over active wildfires, endangering our first responders and stopping efforts to fight these wildfires. DeFazio also applauded passage of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA), as part of H.R. 302. The DRRA will help communities better prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against disasters. It includes a provision authored by DeFazio that would clarify that hazard mitigation funds may be used to purchase components of an earthquake early warning system off the Pacific Northwest coast. It also includes language authorizing States to use hazard mitigation assistance to prevent wildfires on State and private lands. “I am also pleased that this legislation includes the Disaster Recovery Reform Act, which includes my provisions to help install an earthquake early-warning system off the Oregon coast, and give the state of Oregon flexibility to use Federal disaster funds to prevent catastrophic wildfires. This legislation will help Oregon build more resilient communities that can withstand major disasters in the future,” said DeFazio. BACKGROUND ON H.R. 302 Enhances Aviation Safety Mandates flight attendants receive a minimum of 10 hours of rest between duty periods; Requires Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) review of cabin evacuation assumptions to ensure safe evacuation in the event of an emergency; Requires installation of secondary cockpit barriers on each newly manufactured aircraft; Improves the safety of hot air balloon, helicopter, and general aviation operations; and Requires numerous studies, reviews, and reports aimed at enhancing aviation safety, including on FAA’s enforcement and oversight policies, pilot rest and duty rules, general aviation safety, airline engine safety, and accident and incident reporting. Strengthens Consumer Protections Directs FAA to set minimum dimensions for passenger seats, including pitch and width; Establishes a new "Aviation Consumer Advocate" position at the Department of Transportation (DOT) to help resolve consumer complaints; Prohibits the involuntary bumping of passengers from flights after their boarding passes have been collected or scanned; Prohibits cell phone calls and the use of e-cigarettes during flights; Prohibits airlines from denying passengers the ability to check baby strollers at the departure gate unless there are safety or security issues; Requires all medium and large U.S. airports to have private rooms for nursing mothers and baby changing tables in at least one restroom in each passenger terminal; Creates a task force on eliminating sexual misconduct on commercial aircraft; and Addresses issues faced by passengers with disabilities, including by requiring DOT to develop an "Airline Passengers with Disabilities Bill of Rights" and creates a civil penalty for damage to passengers' wheelchairs and mobility aids. Strengthens the U.S. Economy & Aviation Workforce Reforms the FAA aircraft certification processes to ensure U.S. manufacturers can get products to market faster and compete globally; Creates two new grant programs to support pilot education and the recruitment of aviation maintenance workers; and Establishes industry working groups to develop recommendations and strategies to grow the U.S. aviation workforce, including by encouraging youth and women to pursue aviation careers. Provides Long-Term Airport Funding & Addresses Noise Issues Provides 5 years of stable and predictable funding for grants for U.S. airport development; Requires several studies and reviews of airport and aircraft noise levels and their effects on communities; and Creates an ombudsman in each FAA region to work on aircraft noise and pollution issues. Encourages Innovation In Aviation Authorizes FAA to fully regulate hobby and recreational unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) in order to ensure the safety and security of U.S. airspace; and Advances the safe and efficient integration of UAS into U.S. airspace through the development and testing of new UAS technologies and directing the FAA to move forward with authorization of advanced UAS operations (e.g., package delivery). Improves Disaster Recovery H.R. 302 also includes the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA), which: Establishes a stable funding stream to invest in pre-disaster mitigation in a stronger, more resilient manner before disaster strikes, by depositing into a national fund for State, local, and Indian tribal government projects an amount equal to 6 percent of the costs of each disaster; Encourages resilient rebuilding as well as the enforcement and implementation of stronger building codes; Authorizes mitigation funding after wildfires on State, local, and private lands; and Clarifies eligibility of earthquake early warning system components for mitigation funds. --30--
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON—Oregon Representatives Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, and Kurt Schrader joined Governor Kate Brown in celebrating today’s announcement that the Department of Commerce will provide disaster relief to struggling West Coast fisheries. “I’m proud to have helped secure this much-needed, long-overdue relief for Oregon’s fisheries” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04). “These funds will allow commercial fishermen to keep their businesses afloat while helping to maintain a major economic engine for Oregon’s coastal communities.” Oregon’s commercial salmon fisheries were devastated by poor seasons in 2016 and 2017, when they saw more than a 70 percent decline in salmon landings compared to the five-year average. Fishing communities in Oregon have been waiting for the Department of Commerce to act since May 2017, when Governor Brown requested that the Department make an expedited declaration of a fishery disaster under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act and the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act. Bonamici, DeFazio, Blumenauer, and Schrader helped secure the disaster aid by calling on Secretary Wilbur Ross to declare a fishery disaster. “Declaring a disaster will allow hard-hit communities that depend on fisheries revenue and jobs to seek federal assistance and begin the recovery process,” Bonamici, DeFazio, Blumenauer, and Schrader wrote in the letter. “In the past, a federal disaster has been declared for comparable seasons. Despite considerable federal and state investment in salmon recovery, many factors outside of managers’ control, including drought and changing ocean conditions, continue to impede salmon populations. These poor salmon seasons have damaged the already distressed communities that rely on the commercial fishing industry.” “When I visited the South Coast last year in the wake of two simultaneous disasters, the Chetco Bar Fire on land and the salmon season closure at sea, the people who live there made it clear to me that help was needed,” said Governor Kate Brown. “Salmon are a vital component of Oregon’s natural resources and provide significant commercial, recreational, economic, and aesthetic benefits to all of Oregon. The closure of the 2017 salmon season had severe effects on already distressed rural communities on the Oregon Coast, as well as the businesses across the state that depend upon these fisheries. In late 2017, I requested a disaster declaration noting millions of dollars of losses in these vital Oregon communities and fisheries. A year after we requested the declaration, my office had heard nothing back from Washington D.C. But, my staff and I continued to fight for the disaster declaration into 2018. Thankfully, yesterday morning, Secretary Ross helped Oregon make a huge step forward for our rural communities. I want to thank the Oregon congressional delegation, the Coastal Caucus, and coastal leaders for their assistance in pursuing relief for these communities.” “The Oregon Salmon Commission wants to thank the Department of Commerce for acknowledging the 2016 and 2017 commercial fishery failure in the ocean troll salmon fisheries in both Oregon and California,” said Nancy Fitzpatrick, Executive Director of the Oregon Salmon Commission. “Financial assistance will be greatly appreciated by our fishing families. We also want to thank the Oregon Congressional delegation for their continued support of our fisheries and working with the Oregon Salmon Commission over the past year and a half to get this declaration.” In March, Congress passed a spending bill that included $20 million for fisheries disasters nationwide. Today’s Commerce fishery disaster declaration will allow ocean troll Klamath River fall Chinook salmon fisheries in Oregon to access those funds through the National Marine Fisheries Service. The Department of Commerce is determining the appropriate allocation of the funds to eligible fisheries. The Members are committed to continuing to advocate for robust funding for West Coast fishery disasters.
09.21.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today announced a $131,000 grant from Department of Transportation (DOT) to update the Curry County bus system. “Transit systems provide an invaluable resource for our rural communities by providing mobility to seniors and people with disabilities,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Transportation grants such as these will help to enable a safer, modernized, and more effective fleet in Curry County.” The funds will be used to purchase new vehicles, replacing older buses in the fleet, and will help provide Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)-accessible service to Curry County. # # #
09.13.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced $8.7 million in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the dredging of Oregon’s ports and other operations and maintenance. The funds were included in H.R. 5895, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act of 2019. “Oregon’s ports are the lifeline of our coastal communities,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Regular maintenance of these ports allows our local economy to grow and keep our communities going. These funds will allow the Army Corps to keep our ports in top shape, both today and in the future. I’m proud to support infrastructure investments like this, and will continue to push for increased investments as the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.” The funding allocations for the ports in Oregon’s 4th district are as follows: Port of Bandon: $26,000 Port of Brookings Harbor: $785,000 Port of Coos Bay: $6,958,000 Port of Gold Beach: $5,000 Port of Port Orford: $5,000 Port of Reedsport: $939,000 Port of Siuslaw: $10,000. # # #
09.12.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced more than $2 million in funding for the Florence, Roseburg, and Bandon airports from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “This is great news for the many businesses and general aviation pilots who depend on these airports,” said Rep. DeFazio. “These funds will allow for important maintenance and critical safety improvements to be made to our local air infrastructure. I’m proud to support infrastructure investments like this, and will continue to push for increased investments as the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.” The Florence Municipal Airport will receive $1,050,000 for maintenance of the runway and taxiway, as well as the installation of a precision approach path indicator to enhance air traffic arriving at the airport. The Bandon State Airport will receive $936,954 in funding to install lighting and guidance systems, as well as to rehabilitate runway lighting. The Roseburg Regional Airport will receive $200,000 to improve safety and remove power line obstructions from the runway. # # #
09.05.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today applauded Senators Ed Markey (D-MA) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) for introducing companion legislation to the FASTER Act, H.R. 2514, in the Senate. “There is ample funding—paid for by the consumer—that exists to ease Transportation Security Administration (TSA) checkpoint congestion while enhancing screening technology, but it’s being diverted to mask government debt,” said Rep. DeFazio.” Ending the diversion of airline safety funds and directing them towards their intended purpose will improve our national security and airport efficiency. I’m pleased Senators Markey and Blumenthal introduced a companion bill in the Senate.” Consumers pay a fee when purchasing airline tickets that is intended to pay for aviation security. The passenger fee currently stands at $5.60 per one-way trip and may not exceed $11.20 round trip. In Fiscal Year 2016, passengers paid more than $3.6 billion in aviation security fees. However, in 2013, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from these fees to the Treasury’s General Fund. Since 2013, Congress has diverted more than $5.4 billion from TSA and will divert another $13.6 billion through 2027 unless current law is changed. At the same time, the number of airline passengers has increased substantially, leading to TSA staffing shortages, increased wait times for travelers, and delayed deployment of state-of-the-art screening equipment. The FASTER (Funding for Aviation Screeners and Threat Elimination Restoration) Act would ensure that passenger security fees only go towards aviation security and prevent Congress from raiding these funds in the future.
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today announced that Hobby Field Airport in Creswell, Oregon will receive $200,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the reconstruction of its taxiway. “This is great news for the many businesses and general aviation pilots who use Hobby Field Airport,” said DeFazio. “The grant will reconstruct the pavement of the airport’s busy taxiway, ensuring that pilots and the small businesses that depend on the airport can access the runway safely. I’m proud to support infrastructure investments like this, and will continue to push for increased investments as the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.” According to the FAA grant notice, the grant will reconstruct over 2,100 feet of taxiway pavement that requires rehabilitation. To see the grant notification, click here. --30--
08.02.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, today urged Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator David Pekoske to continue passenger screenings at small and medium-sized airports across the United States. “There is no need to curtail security screenings and put Americans at risk when funding shortfalls can be addressed with a simple legislative fix,” said Ranking Member DeFazio. “There is ample funding—paid for by passengers—to pay for screenings at smaller airports, ease congestion at larger facilities, and deploy state-of-the-art screening equipment at airports across the country. We must ensure that funds intended for aviation security are used to keep passengers safe and not to mask the deficit or fund unrelated programs.” “This proposal from the Trump Administration to abandon its aviation security obligations at over 100 airports would undoubtedly create security gaps and may negatively impact the economy—especially in rural America,” said Ranking Member Thompson. “If the Administration is truly concerned with TSA’s budget, it should urge Congress to ensure 100 percent of passenger security fees go to TSA so it can provide the level of security that terrorist threats necessitate. Contrary to common sense, a significant portion of security fees are taken from TSA each year to go towards debt reduction. I am proud to join Congressman DeFazio in sponsoring legislation to redirect all of these fees back to TSA.” In response to reports that TSA is considering eliminating passenger screenings at more than 150 small and medium-sized airports across the United States in order to save money, the members urged Administrator Pekoske to focus on a legislative fix instead of cutting essential security screenings at these airports. Ranking Members DeFazio and Thompson have introduced legislation, H.R. 2514, the Funding for Aviation Screeners and Threat Elimination Restoration Act or the FASTER Act, which would bring increased funding to TSA by ending the diversion of passenger security fees, known as the September 11 security fee, towards debt reduction and government spending for other purposes. Consumers pay an added fee when purchasing airline tickets that is intended to pay for aviation security. The passenger fee currently stands at $5.60 per one-way trip and may not exceed $11.20 round trip. In Fiscal Year 2016, passengers paid more than $3.6 billion in aviation security fees. However, in 2013, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from these fees to the Treasury’s General Fund. Since 2013, Congress has diverted more than $5.4 billion from TSA and will divert another $13.6 billion through 2027 unless current law is changed. At the same time, the number of airline passengers has increased substantially, leading to TSA staffing shortages, increased wait times for travelers, and delayed deployment of state-of-the-art screening equipment. The FASTER Act would ensure that passenger security fees only go towards aviation security and prevent Congress from raiding these funds in the future. Full text of the letter can be found below. To read the full text of Rep. DeFazio and Thompson’s letter, click here. August 2, 2018 The Honorable David P. Pekoske Administrator Transportation Security Administration 601 South 12th Street Arlington, VA 20598-6001 Dear Administrator Pekoske: We write to express our strong concern that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is considering eliminating passenger screening at more than 150 small and medium-sized airports across the United States and to request additional information on this proposal. Today’s threat environment is diverse and significant. It is critical that any substantive changes to TSA policy are thoroughly analyzed and that TSA engages with the traveling public, industry, and Congress prior to moving forward. Recent reports that TSA has compiled a working group to examine the potential risks of eliminating passenger screening at small and medium-sized airports are of particular concern given the significant change in policy being discussed and the potential risk and economic effects. According to the reports, the change would affect roughly 10,000 daily passengers, more than 150 airports, and more than 1,200 TSA employees.[1] In light of these reports, we ask that you respond to the following inquiries no later than August 16, 2018: What was the impetus for creating the working group? What airports are being considered for screening elimination? If the proposal was adopted, how would TSA ensure passengers and baggage are screened before transferring to flights at larger airports? If the proposal was adopted, how would the more than 1,200 employees that currently staff the airports being considered be affected? If the proposal was adopted, how would the budget savings be used? Has TSA consulted with industry stakeholders on the proposal? Has TSA conducted a risk assessment of the proposal? Has TSA conducted an economic assessment of the proposal? What is the current status of your consideration of the proposal? Please provide the working group’s report and any recommendations. While it is important for TSA to discuss operational efficiencies as part of its yearly budget process, we believe that strengthening and improving the security of our nation’s aviation transportation system--not cutting essential, life-saving screening--is of paramount importance. Instead of cutting screening at these airports, TSA should request that Congress redirect all passenger security fees to TSA. H.R. 2514, the Funding for Aviation Screeners and Threat Elimination Restoration (FASTER) Act, which we sponsored together, would end the diversion of revenue collected from an airline passenger fee, known as the September 11 security fee, to the General Fund and prevent Congress from raiding the funds in the future to pay for unrelated programs. Unless current law is changed, more than $19 billion will be diverted from aviation security through Fiscal Year (FY) 2027. As you previously stated during a hearing before the House Committee on Homeland Security, the return of these passenger fees to their original, intended purpose would “go a long way” towards ultimately making our travel more secure.[2] TSA was created in the months after the September 11 terrorist attacks in order to keep American travelers secure. Diminishing the security of airline passengers at small and medium-sized airports is counter to TSA’s mission. We appreciate your timely response to our questions as well as your consideration of preferable budget solutions. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ Peter A. DeFazio Bennie G. Thompson Member of Congress Member of Congress # # # [1] Marsh, Rene, and Eli Watkins, “CNN exclusive: TSA considering eliminating screening at smaller airports,” CNN, 1 Aug. 2018, https://www.cnn.com/2018/08/01/politics/tsa-considering-eliminating-screening-at-smaller-airports/index.html. [2] Preventing The Next Attack: TSA’s Role in Keeping Our Transportation System Secure, 115th Cong., 8 Nov. 2017 (testimony of David Pekoske), https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-115hhrg29470/pdf/CHRG-115hhrg29470.pdf.
07.31.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) last week introduced legislation that would designate segments of the Chetco River and its tributaries as Wild and Scenic and permanently establish protections against future mining claims. “I strongly oppose the Trump Administration’s short-sighted decision to let the protections I secured for the Chetco River in 2013 lapse,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The Chetco River is one of Oregon’s most pristine and ecologically-diverse rivers and is at-risk for pollution and degradation from mining and other destructive activities. My legislation would protect the Chetco’s salmon and steelhead habitat, preserve the area’s natural beauty, and ensure clean drinking water for Oregon communities.” Without these protections, environmentally dangerous mining practices will be allowed on the Chetco and its tributaries, endangering wild salmon and steelhead spawning grounds and leaving drinking water for southwest Oregon vulnerable to pollution. Rep. DeFazio’s legislation would prohibit any new mining claims along several unprotected sections of the river and will require current claims to meet a rigorous validation process in order to be maintained. In 2013, at Rep. DeFazio’s urging, the Obama administration approved a five-year administrative mineral withdrawal for the Chetco River and its tributaries. The withdrawal expired on July 26, 2018. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has not re-authorized the withdrawal, meaning new mining claims can be initiated. The Chetco River has been identified by American Rivers as one of the nation’s most endangered rivers.
07.31.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today announced more than $11 million in Department of Transportation (DOT) grants for airport improvements in Albany, Corvallis, Eugene, Gold Beach, and North Bend. “These funds will allow for critical safety improvements to be made to our local airports,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “It’s imperative that we fund upgrades to Oregon’s airports in order to ensure continued access to air service, which will in turn lead to increased economic development.” A total of $2.5 million in DOT grants will go to the Eugene Airport for safety improvements, including replacement of an aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicle, and acquisition of new snow removal equipment. The Corvallis Municipal Airport will receive nearly $8 million in funding to rehabilitate more than half a mile of runway lighting systems to enhance airfield operations during low-visibility conditions, and reconstruct runway and taxiway pavement that has reached the end of its useful life. The Gold Beach Airport will receive $230,000 in funding to install a new precision approach path indicator and an airport rotating beacon, making nighttime landings at the airport safer. More than $760,000 will fund improvements to airfield lighting systems and an environmental study evaluating any potential environmental impacts of runway safety improvements at the Southwest Oregon Regional Airport in North Bend. The Albany Municipal Airport will receive $950,000 in order to rehabilitate the pavement on the airport’s runway. # # #
07.27.2018	EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced he will hold the following town hall meetings across southwestern Oregon later this summer: Thursday, August 9 Springfield (Seniors) 3:30-4:30 PM Willamalane Adult Activity Center 215 W. C Street, Springfield Eugene 5:30-6:30 PM Lane Community College Downtown Campus 101 W. 10th Avenue, Eugene Monday, August 20 Lebanon 12:00-1:00 PM Lebanon Public Library 55 Academy Street, Lebanon Albany 2:00-3:00 PM Albany Public Library 2450 14th Street SE, Albany Corvallis 5:30-6:30 PM Corvallis-Benton County Library 645 NW Monroe Avenue, Corvallis Tuesday, August 21 Cottage Grove 1:00-2:00 PM City Hall 400 East Main Street, Cottage Grove Roseburg 5:15-6:15 PM City Hall SE 900 Douglas Avenue, Roseburg Tuesday, August 28 Florence 11:00 AM-12:00 PM Siuslaw Public Library 1460 9th Street, Florence Coos Bay 5:00-6:00 PM Coos Bay Public Library 525 Anderson Avenue, Coos Bay Wednesday, August 29 Reedsport 12:00-1:00 PM Reedsport Community Center 451 Winchester Avenue, Reedsport For an online schedule of Rep. DeFazio’s Town Hall meetings, click here. # # #
07.25.2018	Oregon’s Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today announced that the Corvallis airport will receive a grant of $6,520,000 from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The grant will be used to reconstruct the airport’s taxiway and rehabilitate runway lighting. “Reliable, high-quality airports are a critical part of today’s infrastructure,” said Merkley. “This grant will help create jobs and grow the Corvallis area economy, and I’ll keep fighting for investments like this in our Oregon communities.” “Oregonians know that rebuilding and bolstering our state’s infrastructure requires innovative and cost-effective strategies,” Wyden said. “This grant will achieve those objectives by providing real dollars to help Corvallis make its airport safer, while creating good-paying jobs, and spurring economic growth for the community.” “This is great news for Corvallis and the surrounding areas,” said DeFazio. “This grant will expand airport access, creating good-paying local jobs and boosting the local economies and businesses that rely on it. I’m proud to support infrastructure investments like this, and will continue to push for increased investments as the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.” ###
07.24.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today introduced legislation to permanently protect and preserve the remote and rugged area called Devil’s Staircase, as well as parts of Wasson and Franklin creeks. “Devil’s Staircase is one of the last truly wild places in the United States,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “I’ve hiked thousands of miles in my lifetime, and the trek to the spectacular Devil’s Staircase waterfall was one of most challenging and rewarding I have ever undertaken. This magnificent area is pristine wilderness without any developed trails, and encompasses some of the last remaining old-growth forest in Oregon’s Coastal Range. My legislation will help to protect this unique area and preserve its beauty and tranquility for generations to come.” The legislation, H.R. 6484, would designate approximately 30,500 acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and U.S. Forest Service (USFS) lands in Oregon as Wilderness. Wilderness lands have a special protected status against road construction and disturbances like logging. Devil’s Staircase is so remote and inaccessible it has never been logged. In addition, this legislation designates approximately 14.4 miles of the Wasson and Franklin Creeks, which support native Coho and Chinook salmon, trout, and steelhead runs, as Wild and Scenic Rivers. # # #
07.10.2018	Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) announced the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) will allocate up to $6.5 million in funding this year to address Port Orford’s much-needed repairs for its port’s failed breakwater. “This is excellent news for Port Orford,” said DeFazio. “This community relies on the port as its economic engine, and fixing the breakwater is essential to its success. For too long Port Orford has been overlooked by the Corps. Due to years of storms, the breakwater system is in need of serious repair, and without annual dredging continued shoaling creates an extremely dangerous situation. I applaud the Army Corps for including this essential funding in its Work Plan.” In February 2018, DeFazio sent a letter to the Acting Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army Corps requesting that funds for Port Orford be included in the Corps’s Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) Work Plan. The FY18 Work Plan released on June 7 did not include funding to repair the breakwater system. On July 5,, the Corps announced that additional projects, including Port Orford’s breakwater, would be added the FY18 Work Plan because additional disaster assistance funding was made available by Congress through the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. The Port of Garibaldi will also receive funding to address critical repairs needed to maintain safety over the bar at Tillamook Bay’s South Jetty. A full copy of that letter can be found below. February 1, 2018 Mr. Ryan A. Fischer Acting Assistant Secretary U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Mr. Fischer: It has come to my attention that the Port of Port Orford, Oregon, is no longer scheduled to receive necessary repairs to its breakwater this year, due to Army Corps funds being redirected to disaster assistance. I write to you asking that you consider including funding to address the repairs needed to Port Orford’s failed breakwater in the Army Corps Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) Work Plan. With a population of just 1,159, the rural coastal community of Port Orford relies on its port as its economic engine. The most recent data (from 2014) of fish landings from Oregon’s Department of Fish and Wildlife show that Port Orford landed 1,363,902 pounds of commercial fish and shellfish, valued at $3.4 million—ranking as the 120th major U.S. port by value landed. While the Port relies primarily on its commercial fishing fleet, it is also host to a marine research industry and range of recreational boating activities. Prior to the Corps’ construction of the breakwater in 1968, the Port was a deep-water port accommodating up to 400-foot lumber carriers. One year after the breakwater was built, the harbor became shoaled, necessitating emergency congressional authorization for the first dredging of the harbor. Since that time, shoaling has been the biggest obstacle for the Port, due to the unique nature of the crane operated boat launch, and vulnerability to shoaling at this critical dockside location in the harbor. Additionally, the breakwater has been damaged by repeated storms over the years, but in 2014 Port Orford was hit with a major winter storm consisting of 100 mile per hour winds and waves reaching 40 feet in height. There were even reports of large boulders from the breakwater wall rolling across the cement dry dock. The storm caused drastic damage to port assets and damaged the breakwater to the point where the midsection is now completely breached and unravelling. Storm damage, coupled with the fact that the channel and harbor lack annual dredging by the Corps, has created significant obstacles for the fishing community. Without annual dredging, shoals now prevent boats from accessing the ocean and launching except at high tide. This shoaling has also increased wave impact along the dock wall, making launch and retrieval extremely dangerous. Because of the cost of dredging, boat damage, and limited launching caused by shoaling, the breakwater must be modified to alleviate the shoaling problem. The Corps stated in its July 2014 breakwater inspection report that the role that the breakwater plays in encouraging sediment deposition should be evaluated prior to designing a repair of the structure.[1] Thanks to FY17 supplemental funding, the Corps was able to begin drafting plans and specs to repair the breakwater, but the port has recently been told that there is no further funding currently available to move forward on performing the repairs. This breakwater modification and repair is vital to the Port of Port Orford. I request that you strongly consider including funding in the Corps FY18 Operations and Maintenance Work Plan to move forward on those repairs. If you have any questions regarding this request, please contact me or have your staff contact Elizabeth Hill of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Democratic Staff at (202) 225-3274. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Ranking Member [1] Port Orford Breakwater Site Inspection Report, 23 July 2014.
06.11.2018	Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) will allocate nearly $15 million this year towards operations and maintenance projects at small ports along Oregon’s south coast. “Our ports along the Oregon coast are the lifeblood of coastal communities, and our coastal infrastructure supports communities all throughout the state,” said Rep. DeFazio. “These critical investments will boost safety for our recreational and commercial fishing fleet, as well as create and sustain thousands of jobs tied to cargo, recreation, industrial, commercial and other activity at Oregon’s ports. I applaud the Corps for including this essential funding in their Work Plan.” In April, DeFazio spearheaded a letter sent to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James urging the Administration to fund critical navigation needs of Oregon’s small coastal ports, above the President’s budget request to Congress. The President’s budget request included only $9.4 million for ports on Oregon’s south coast. An additional $5.6 million was included in the Corps’ Fiscal Year 2018 Work Plan. In total, the Work Plan designated nearly $15 million for the Ports of Coos Bay, Bandon, Brookings Harbor, Gold Beach, Port Orford, Siuslaw, and Umpqua. The Corps operations and maintenance projects, which include dredging, are critical to local economies and the fishing industry. These ports also support the activities of federal agencies, such as the U.S. Coast Guard. Ports require routine dredging to ensure they are safe and operational, but many have been severely underfunded. A 2014 State of Oregon study shows that our coastal ports support 15,759 direct/indirect jobs and $904 million to the state gross domestic product. In addition, NOAA’s 2015 Fisheries of the U.S. report ranked the State of Oregon seventh in the nation for 2015 domestic fish landings, with 195 million pounds valued at $115.7 million. A copy of the letter is included below. April 10, 2018 The Honorable R.D. James Assistant Secretary of the Army – Civil Works Department of the Army 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary James: We are writing to request that, as you develop the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) work plan for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) Civil Works program, you include critical operation and maintenance funding for Corps projects in the State of Oregon. Funding for these projects is absolutely necessary to ensure public safety and to support economic development activities in our State. On March 23, 2018, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (P.L. 115-141) into law. This bill provides considerable funding for the Corps, including additional funding to carry out projects that did not receive sufficient funding in the President’s budget request, or were not funded at all. Numerous Corps projects in Oregon fit these criteria, and have additional capability, including: Chetco River (Port of Brookings Harbor); Coos Bay (Port of Coos Bay), which includes the need for critical funding to continue work on the North Jetty; Coquille River (Port of Bandon); Depoe Bay; Port Orford; Rogue River (Port of Gold Beach); Siuslaw River (Port of Siuslaw); Tillamook Bay and Bar (Port of Garibaldi); Umpqua River (Port of Umpqua); and Yaquina Bay and Harbor (Port of Newport). Nearly all of Oregon’s ports are located in rural counties, where port activities provide an important employment base and are often primary drivers of local prosperity. These small ports are hubs for international trade, recreation, and commercial fishing. Funding is not only important for economic development, but maintaining our jetties and dredging our navigation channels also contributes to public safety. The build-up of sediment and deterioration of jetties along the Oregon Coast creates a very dangerous situation for commercial ships, commercial and sport fisherman, and recreational boaters. Lack of funding for these projects not only puts mariners in harm’s way, it impedes the U.S. Coast Guard’s ability to carry out search and rescue missions. It is critically important that funding is provided in the FY18 work plan to maintain Corps projects in Oregon. We appreciate your consideration of this request. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO RON WYDEN Member of Congress United States Senator JEFF MERKLEY EARL BLUMENAUER United States Senator Member of Congress KURT SCHRADER SUZANNE BONAMICI Member of Congress Member of Congress --30--
06.07.2018	By a vote of 408 to 2, the House of Representatives approved the bipartisan Water Resources Development Act of 2018 (WRDA). This legislation provides for improvements to the Nation’s ports, inland waterways, locks, dams, flood protection, ecosystem restoration, and other water resources infrastructure. “Today’s passage of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 is a win for our Nation’s coastal communities and those located on inland waterways,” said Ranking Member DeFazio. "With that said, I am extremely disappointed that the bill does not include a bipartisan provision that would have ensured that funds collected in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) are used only for harbor maintenance—not for unrelated government spending. Unlocking the HMTF is key to ensuring we’re not just adding to the $100 billion dollar backlog of projects at the Corps of Engineers, but are actually using existing funds to make real investments in our Nation’s ports, harbors and waterways. Despite the removal of my HMTF provision, I support this legislation because of the many other provisions which will improve safety, sustain jobs, and provide improvements to projects undertaken by the Army Corps.” WRDA 2018 includes provisions that: Authorize locally driven, but nationally vital, investments in our Nation’s water resources infrastructure. Encourage economic growth and competitiveness, and help move goods throughout the country and abroad. Protect Davis-Bacon requirements for water infrastructure projects, guaranteeing that American workers can earn a living wage. Preserve environmental protections designed to protect human health, clean water, and the environment. Uphold Congress’ constitutional duty to provide for infrastructure and facilitate commerce for the Nation. In addition, Ranking Member DeFazio included a provision in WRDA 2018 requiring the Corps to expedite its feasibility study of the levy at Fern Ridge Reservoir. Improving Oregon State Highway 126W between Eugene and Veneta has long been a priority for Lane County. The project is challenged by the fact that much of this stretch is built on a narrow levy that bisects the Fern Ridge Reservoir, a Corps facility. This study would help clear one hurdle in any future highway construction project along 126W. # # #
06.06.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today introduced legislation to discourage multinational corporations from moving abroad by taxing corporate profits on a per-country basis. “Republicans promised that their tax plan would bring jobs home to the U.S., but instead it is encouraging multi-billion dollar corporations to move jobs and ship profits overseas,” said Rep. DeFazio, (D-OR). “My legislation would close the loopholes Republicans left open for wealthy businesses and eliminate incentives luring American jobs and American dollars to other countries.” While Republicans and the Trump administration promised their recently-passed tax bill would bring jobs back to the U.S., it actually encourages multinational corporations to move overseas in order to avoid paying U.S. taxes. The new tax law allows multinational corporations to reduce their overall tax liability by requiring only a minimum tax on an average of profits earned in both low-tax and high-tax countries, instead of taxing profits earned in different countries separately. This system incentivizes companies to shift earnings abroad in order to bypass U.S. taxes. To correct this, Rep. DeFazio’s Per-Country Minimum Act, H.R. 6015, would require that the tax rate be applied on a per-country basis. Under this legislation, taxes are paid based on the country in which the profits are earned and not averaged. This reform would raise a significant amount of revenue for the United States and remove the incentive for businesses to move profits to foreign nations. Rep. DeFazio’s legislation is endorsed by the FACT Coalition, a group of progressive organizations including Public Citizen, Center for Economic and Policy Research, Citizens for Tax Justice, and the Main Street Alliance.
06.05.2018	After pressing the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) for more than a year to strengthen their aerial firefighting resources, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today applauded the agency’s request for high-capacity airtankers to help combat wildfires in the upcoming fire season. “The USFS must include high-capacity air tankers in their fire suppression tactics in order to most effectively combat wildfires this year,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Oregon and other Western states endured some of the worst wildfires in decades last year, and clearly did not have the resources to fight the blazes. Winter snow packs and May precipitation levels were well below normal, and it is expected that this fire season will be severe. To be anything less than prepared for the upcoming fire season is unacceptable, and I will continue to fight so that the forest service has the funding they need to acquire the tools they need to effectively fight wildfires this season.” Rep. DeFazio has repeatedly pressed the USFS to determine why they did not solicit high-capacity firefighting airtankers last year. In September, while touring the Eagle Creek and Chetco Bar fire, he expressed his concerns with former USFS Chief Tony Tooke and sent a letter to Chief Tooke in December asking the agency for specifics regarding their aerial firefighting resources and procedures. He recently met with the interim USFS Chief Vicki Christiansen in Washington to discuss fire suppression plans for the 2018 fire season and to encourage the USFS to ensure it has adequate tools at its disposal to combat the fires. The 2017 fire season destroyed hundreds of thousands of acres in Oregon alone. Prior to the 2017 fire season, the USFS solicited requests for proposals (RFPs) for air tankers to combat forest fires. However, their proposal excluded high-capacity tankers.
05.22.2018	Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), co-chairs of the Northwest Energy Caucus, today applauded the start of formal re-negotiations between the United States and Canada on the Columbia River Treaty, May 29 and 30 in Washington, DC. “After working diligently for several years to bring Canada to the negotiating table, I’m pleased that Canada has finally agreed to start these talks, which are of vital importance to the Pacific Northwest,” said DeFazio. “It is imperative that we ensure that any updated treaty is beneficial for both the United States and Canada, including the end of the “Canadian Entitlement”, which would save Pacific Northwest ratepayers hundreds of millions of dollars. I’m hopeful the negotiations are completed quickly and provide a fair agreement for both nations.” “The Columbia River Treaty, and the relationship between the U.S. and Canada, plays a critical role in the lives and livelihoods of people here in Eastern Washington and the entire Pacific Northwest,” said McMorris Rodgers. “With Canada officially announcing they will be entering re-negotiations with the U.S., it’s my hope we can update and rebalance the terms of this agreement so it can remain mutually-beneficial into the 21st century. I’m proud to work with Rep. Peter DeFazio to get the U.S. and Canada to the table to re-negotiate this treaty and work in a bipartisan fashion to build a better future for the Pacific Northwest.” The Columbia River Treaty, first negotiated in 1964, set up a flood control and power-sharing agreement between the United States and Canada. While the terms laid out in the original treaty provided mutual benefits for both nations, the deal today gives an unfair advantage to Canada, forcing consumers in the Pacific Northwest to pay Canada for downstream power benefits. The treaty is slated to end in 2024. Rep. DeFazio and McMorris Rodgers have fought for years for Canada to renegotiate the treaty and provide an equitable result for the United States. In February of 2016, the two wrote a letter to President Obama in which they said, “The agreement between Canada and the United States serves as a framework for the mutual benefit of both countries, providing low-cost hydropower generation, flood control, and economic growth.” In March of 2016, they met with Canadian Members of Parliament to discuss the need for both the U.S. and Canada to come back to the negotiating table. In October of 2017, DeFazio and McMorris Rodgers wrote to Ambassador David MacNaughton to again urge for re-negotiation. The two have also held numerous meetings and calls with U.S. State Department officials to emphasize the importance of this treaty to the Pacific Northwest. # # #
05.17.2018	Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced H.R. 5857, the “Stop Sexual Assault and Harassment in Transportation Act,” legislation that requires passenger airlines, commuter and intercity passenger railroads, transit agencies, operators of passenger vessels, and certain types of bus companies to prescribe formal policies on sexual assault and harassment of employees and passengers in transportation. “The number-one goal in the transportation of people, whether it is across town or across an ocean, must be safety. Today, I introduced legislation to require transportation providers to develop formal policies to help prevent sexual assault and harassment in transportation and hold those who perpetrate these egregious acts accountable under all applicable laws. This legislation will help build a safer transportation system for all Americans,” DeFazio said. Last year Americans took 10.1 billion trips on public transportation. According to a 2018 national study, 17 percent of all respondents experienced sexual harassment while using mass transportation. On U.S. airlines alone, 68 percent of flight attendants say they have experienced sexual harassment during their careers. The “Stop Sexual Assault and Harassment in Transportation Act” would require transportation providers to adopt a formal policy providing that sexual assault and harassment in transportation is unacceptable under any circumstance. These providers must prominently display, on their websites or otherwise, a statement that they have adopted such a policy as well as the procedures their passengers can follow for reporting incidents of sexual assault and harassment. The policy must facilitate the reporting of these incidents; establish procedures for employees to follow if such an incident is reported; and require all appropriate employees to be trained on the policy. In addition, the bill increases the current civil penalty for interference with crewmembers in commercial aviation from $25,000 to $35,000 and creates a similar civil penalty to protect employees working in other modes of transportation. Finally, the bill requires the Secretary of Transportation to annually collect data on incidents of sexual assault and harassment and make this data publicly available. Groups supporting H.R. 5857, the Stop Sexual Assault and Harassment in Transportation include the Transportation Trades Department, the Association of Flight Attendants, the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, and the Amalgamated Transit Union. Full bill text can be found here. To see Rep. DeFazio speak on the bill, click here. --30--
05.16.2018	Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) testified before the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs calling for reform and stronger oversight of veterans’ health care facilities following pervasive mismanagement and patient care problems at VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS). DeFazio targeted the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) regional health system managers at Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN). In his testimony, Rep. DeFazio said, “If VISNs cannot function at a high level and competently fulfill their duty to perform meaningful oversight, I recommend the abolishment of the VISN structure and the establishment of a stronger oversight authority. Our veterans deserve better.” VARHS facilities suffered from years of substandard patient care and poor management. Despite repeated requests by Rep. DeFazio to VISN for oversight, it took a direct appeal from Rep. DeFazio to former VA Secretary Shulkin to initiate a Department of Veterans Affairs investigation into the allegations and for improvements to be made. The VA’s Office of the Medical Inspector (OMI) and Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection (OAWP) found evidence of serious problems with employee management and intimidation, medical care, and inadequate resources. As a result, the VA made a number of recommendations in order to address these problems and make overall improvements to VARHS, as well as VA Medical Centers around the country. To view Rep. DeFazio’s testimony before the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, click here.
05.16.2018	Oregon’s U.S. Sens. Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, with Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR 2) and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR 4) today announced that Congress has passed the Oregon Tribal Economic Development Act, which allows certain tribes in Oregon to lease and sell property that they own. “It’s absurd that tribes were forced to get Congressional approval before they could develop property that they privately own,” Merkley said. “Several Oregon tribes asked me for help on this issue as they encountered barriers to development projects, and I could not be more pleased to see it heading to the president’s desk to be signed into law. This legislation is critically important to tribal sovereignty and economic growth, allowing tribes to take ownership over development opportunities on their reservations.” “Tribes in Oregon should have the authority to set their own economic course, and an essential piece of that decision-making must be the flexibility to develop their privately owned property,” Wyden said. “I am gratified that common sense and fairness have prevailed so that tribes throughout our state can choose to pursue development opportunities that create jobs and revenues.” “Passage of this measure will help improve the lives of Oregon tribal members by giving them new opportunities to manage their lands without unnecessary federal red tape,” Walden said. “I look forward to President Trump signing this bipartisan measure into law.” “Throughout our nation’s history, our terrible federal Indian policy has decimated tribes not only through displacement, but through economic discrimination as well,” DeFazio said. “In Southwest Oregon, the INIA made it impossible for the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians in my district to fully function as a sovereign nation, acting as a roadblock to the tribe’s economic development. I’m proud to help right a historic wrong by exempting the Coos from its unnecessary restrictions.” Currently, under the Indian Non-Intercourse Act, tribes are required to get federal approval to purchase, sell, convey, warrant, or lease lands they own privately. This makes it difficult, expensive, and impractical for tribes to seize economic development opportunities, when they must get approval from Congress every time they want to obtain a commercial mortgage for their non-trust property. The Oregon Tribal Economic Development Act allows certain tribes in Oregon to forego that additional approval on privately held lands. The bill does not affect property that is held in trust by the United States, which means the federal government holds the legal title to the land in trust on behalf of a tribe, and tribal government manages the land for the communal benefit of the tribe. Merkley and Wyden led the Act in the U.S. Senate, and Walden and DeFazio led a companion bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. The tribes in Oregon impacted by this bill include the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians; Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon; Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon; Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs; and the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians. “We give great thanks to Senator Merkley, Senator Wyden, Rep. DeFazio, and Rep. Walden for their hard work to secure the passage of S. 1285, the Oregon Tribal Economic Development Act,” said Chief Warren Brainard of the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians. “This bill advances the potential for economic development for Tribes in Oregon by strengthening our self-sufficiency and self-determination and ensuring the equality of Tribes to buy and sell fee lands like other Americans. It is a great day for Tribes in Oregon.” “Economic development and investment is vital to improving the lives of our tribal members,” said Cheryle Kennedy, Chair of The Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde. “This bill removes a significant barrier to the Tribe leasing and developing fee land. The Tribe is grateful for Sen. Merkley’s leadership on this issue and his role in passing the legislation.” The next step for the legislation is to be signed into law by the president. ###
05.15.2018	The Co-Chairs of the Small Brewers Caucus, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Richard Neal (D-MA), and Mike Kelly (R-PA) today marked the start of American Craft Beer Week with a resolution, H.Res. 884, expressing appreciation America’s independent craft brewers. “Our nation’s booming craft brewing industry is not only a vibrant affirmation of the entrepreneurial traditions of the United States, they are a testament to the strength and importance of small businesses,” said the members in a statement. “With small and independent brewers in all fifty states, craft brewers make up a diverse and influential economic engine that provides jobs and supports agriculture and manufacturing across the United States. We’re proud to be the largest bi-partisan caucus in Congress and pledge to continue to promote and protect American craft brewing.” “The small and independent craft brewer is the epitome of the American dream,” said Bob Pease, president and CEO, Brewers Association. “We thank Congress for recognizing small and independent craft brewers’ entrepreneurialism, hard work and contributions to communities throughout the country.” Craft brewing represents more than 12.7 percent of the American beer market and directly supports 135,000+ jobs across the country. With a total economic impact estimated at $67.8 billion, craft brewers hold a significant position in our nation’s beer industry. The House Small Brewer’s Caucus, founded in 2007 by Rep. DeFazio, is a bipartisan group of 231 members from 43 states. ###
04.27.2018	Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member of the Peter DeFazio (D-OR) led the U.S. House of Representatives in the passage of a bipartisan long-term reauthorization of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) programs. As the top Democrat on the Committee, DeFazio was instrumental in the writing of the bill and pushed for critical safety standards and consumer protections to be included in the legislation. “This bill will give the FAA long-term funding it needs to improve aviation safety, enhance consumer protections, and invest in rural airports,” said Rep. DeFazio. “In this highly-partisan Congress, I’m proud to work with my colleagues across the aisle to pass a truly bipartisan piece of legislation that will improve the lives of millions of Americans.” H.R. 4 also includes the bipartisan Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA), legislation that will help communities better prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against disasters of all kinds, including wildfires. To watch Ranking Member DeFazio’s opening statement on H.R. 4, click here. Enhances Consumer Protections Prohibiting an airline from involuntarily bumping a passenger after the passenger has boarded; Prohibiting the use of cell phones for voice communications during flight; Requiring airlines to create a one-page document outlining the rights of passengers; Requiring large- and medium-hub airports to provide clean, sterile rooms in each terminal for nursing mothers; and Establishing a select subcommittee to advise the Secretary of Transportation on issues related to air travel for passengers with disabilities. Improves Aviation Safety A requirement that newly manufactured aircraft include secondary cockpit barriers, thereby reducing the likelihood of another successful 9/11-style attack; A requirement that the FAA review whether all passengers can safely evacuate an airliner in an emergency within the requisite 90-second limit; A requirement that the FAA update its safety-critical staffing model and that the Inspector General review the model to determine the number of safety inspectors the FAA needs; and An enhancement to the FAA’s process for receiving and responding to aviation employees’ voluntary disclosures of safety problems; and A requirement that flight attendants have, at a minimum, 10 consecutive hours of rest between duty periods.
04.19.2018	Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Subcommittee on Aviation Ranking Member Rick Larsen (D-WA) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao expressing concerns regarding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) oversight of airlines and aircraft repair stations. On April 15, CBS’ 60 Minutes program featured alarming testimony alleging a lack of FAA oversight of Allegiant Air. The reporting uncovered more than 100 serious incidents including aborted takeoffs, engine failures, and emergency descents, all within less than two years. Two days later, on April 17, the longest period in U.S. aviation history without a fatality came to an abrupt end when a fan blade on a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737-700 separated in flight, causing debris to puncture the aircraft cabin, and ultimately fatally injuring a passenger. DeFazio and Larsen are requesting a response detailing what proactive steps the FAA will take to prevent events like the one that happened on Southwest flight 1380 from happening again, a full report on where the FAA’s oversight of Allegiant Air stands today, and a briefing by senior FAA officials regarding the agency’s safety oversight. Full text of the letter can be found below. April 19, 2018 The Honorable Elaine L. Chao Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: Less than two days after a provocative media exposé on weak Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) oversight of a low-cost carrier, the longest period in history without a fatality in a U.S. passenger airline accident ended with the death of a passenger due to an engine failure followed by an explosive decompression. We write to express our serious concerns regarding what these episodes imply about FAA oversight of airlines and aircraft repair stations. In this week’s accident, a fan blade on a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737-700 separated in flight, causing debris to puncture the aircraft cabin. A passenger was fatally injured in the incident. This is the first death on a U.S. commercial airliner since 2009. While more details about the accident will surface in time, the accident bears striking similarity to another accident, also involving a Southwest 737-700, in August 2016. In that case, the front section of the left engine separated in flight, causing debris to puncture the fuselage and a loss of cabin pressure. Thankfully, no passengers sustained injuries; this week, however, we were less fortunate. This week’s accident came on the heels of CBS’ April 15 60 Minutes program that raised questions about FAA oversight of another U.S. airline, Allegiant Air. During the program, it was suggested that Allegiant may be “the most dangerous” airline in the United States due its “persistent problems,” including more than 100 serious incidents such as aborted takeoffs, midair engine failures, and emergency descents, all within less than 24 months. The program cited aviation experts who believe that Allegiant’s “aggressive business model and a [lagging] safety culture,” along with its aged fleet of McDonnell Douglas MD-80s, have contributed to an unacceptable number of safety incidents. We have seen the 60 Minutes story play out before. Slightly more than 20 years ago, the FAA and Department of Transportation (DOT) offered repeated assurances to the flying public that a rapidly-expanding low-cost carrier operating older, second-hand airplanes was safe, despite a spate of emergency landings and close calls. As it turns out, that airline—ValuJet—was not safe, and it took the deaths of 110 passengers and crew in a crash near Miami in 1996 to demonstrate that the FAA’s and DOT’s assurances were misplaced. For that reason, we have long been wary regarding the FAA’s safety oversight of fast-growing low-cost carriers operating aging aircraft like Allegiant, yet our staffs have been assured on multiple occasions that the airline has no significant or systemic safety problems. However, the 60 Minutes program suggests otherwise. Moreover, the government’s own investigative work suggests the FAA still encounters challenges in perfecting its risk-based oversight system across the industry. For example, a U.S. DOT Inspector General report issued per our request last December found flaws in the FAA’s processes and risk assessment tools used to conduct safety oversight of regional air carriers. The report found that the FAA “still had a substantial amount of work ahead” to implement its risk-based, data-driven oversight system involving regional carriers. Although that report was targeted to oversight of regional air carriers, rather than mainline air carriers like Southwest and leisure carriers like Allegiant, how can we be assured that current FAA methods and practices to oversee U.S. carriers are right for such a dynamic and ever-changing industry? In addition, a DOT Inspector General report issued last year per our request found weaknesses in the FAA’s process for monitoring and investigating suspected unapproved parts and ensuring they are removed from the system and no longer pose a threat to safety. On top of that, the FAA has missed a statutory deadline for applying its drug and alcohol regulations to workers who perform safety-sensitive functions at foreign aircraft repair stations. We certainly hope that suspected unapproved parts or work at a foreign repair station played no role in the Southwest accident. In light of this week’s events, we request you provide us with the following information: A response detailing whether the FAA will take any steps proactively in response to this week’s accident involving Southwest flight 1380 to ensure the safety of the traveling public. A full report on the FAA’s oversight of Allegiant that addresses the following questions: What enforcement actions has the FAA taken in the last five years against Allegiant for non-compliance with Federal Aviation Regulations? What actions has the FAA taken in the last five years to work with Allegiant to address non-compliance issues and reduce the number of mechanical and other safety events the airline has experienced? What safety issues has the FAA discovered through its oversight of Allegiant in the last five years, how were those issues rectified, and what steps are in place to ensure they do not happen again? How does the FAA’s safety oversight framework account for the unique operating characteristics and business models of airlines such as Allegiant? What actions, if any, will the FAA take following the 60 Minutes program to ensure that Allegiant is fit and safe to fly? What actions, if any, will the FAA take following the 60 Minutes program to review its current safety oversight practices? A briefing by senior FAA officials to discuss the following topics: Has the FAA identified any deficiencies in the safety programs (including aircraft maintenance and inspection) of any U.S. air carriers? If so, what are those deficiencies and how will the FAA ensure they are corrected? Does the FAA have a sufficient number of personnel in its Office of Aviation Safety to monitor, inspect, and oversee the U.S. aviation industry? How has the FAA’s transition to the so-called “Compliance Philosophy” oversight model affected the safety of our system? What steps will the FAA take to alert the public to safety issues before they become known through the press? What authorities or resources does the FAA need to adequately oversee the U.S. aviation industry? We request that you provide complete responses to the above questions and schedule the above briefing as soon as possible. Thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO RICK LARSEN Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Aviation cc: The Honorable Daniel K. Elwell Acting Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration --30--
04.18.2018	Congressman Peter DeFazio today introduced the HIGHER ED and AID Acts, two pieces of legislation aimed at making it easier for students to attend and pay for higher education. “There is something seriously wrong with our country when the financial barriers to obtaining and paying off a higher education are entirely insurmountable,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “An education—whether from a vocational school, a community college, or a traditional four-year college—ought to provide opportunities for young people, not financial burdens. The HIGHER ED and AID Acts will expand options for all students, regardless of their educational path, and allow them to focus on their futures freely without worrying about the financial costs.” Currently, former students enrolled in Income-Driven Repayment (IDR) plans are generally required to start making payments on their student loans upon earning a salary at 150 percent of the federal poverty level—only $18,210 in 2018. Under the HIGHER ED (Helping Individuals Get a Higher Education while Reducing Education Debt) Act, H.R. 5549, the minimum salary threshold for IDR plans would be raised to 225 percent of the federal poverty level, so that low-income borrowers can focus on starting their careers rather than being overwhelmed by crippling monthly loan payments. Additionally, the HIGHER ED Act would allow student borrowers to refinance their loans at lower rates, bolster the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, and reinstate subsidized loans for graduate students, which ended under the 2013 budget sequestration. In addition, the AID (Achieving Independence through Degrees) Act, H.R. 5550, would increase and improve access to Pell Grants, raising the maximum award from $5,815 to $9,970 and indexing the grant to inflation. The bill would also expand Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to students, improve the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application process, and increase student financial literacy by enhancing borrowers’ understanding of the loan process.
04.13.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today announced $37 million in federal grants will be awarded to the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) for Emergency Relief (ER) projects across the state. “As the top Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I’m pleased I was able to help secure these much-needed funds for Oregon’s roads and infrastructure,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The effects of last year’s severe weather and wildfires are still evident on roads throughout the state, and these funds will help to bring our state’s infrastructure back up to a state of good repair. It is critical that we continue to invest in Oregon’s public infrastructure in order to keep our roads and transportation systems reliable and safe.” Rep. DeFazio pushed the Trump Administration to release the funds, most of which will go towards infrastructure damaged by last year’s wildfires and severe winter storms and flooding.
04.06.2018	FOR PLANNING PURPOSES: Rep. Peter DeFazio to Hold Town Hall Meetings in Brookings, Port Orford on April 21 EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio will hold two town hall meetings in Curry County on Saturday, April 21. He will visit Brookings and host a town hall meeting at 11:00 AM at the Chetco Community Public Library. Later, he will visit Port Orford and host a town hall meeting at 2:00 PM at the Port Orford City Hall. DeFazio will discuss issues such as the federal budget, jobs and transportation legislation, the recent tax reform legislation, and issues affecting coastal Oregon. The meetings also give constituents an opportunity to share their opinions and have the Congressman answer questions about federal issues. SATURDAY, APRIL 21 BROOKINGS TOWN HALL MEETING 11:00 AM CHETCO COMMUNITY PUBLIC LIBRARY 405 ALDER STREET BROOKINGS, OR 97415 PORT ORFORD 2:00 PM CITY HALL 555 20TH STREET PORT ORFORD, OR 97465
03.22.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today applauded the inclusion of a fix for wildfire prevention funding and funding for the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program in the FY2018 Omnibus spending bill. Rep. DeFazio has fought for a fix to end the cycle of fire-borrowing throughout his time in Congress and fought for increased funding to fight wildfires, improve forest health and sustain rural communities. “After decades of fires and millions of acres destroyed, I’m encouraged that the idiotic cycle of fire-borrowing is finally ending,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, (D-OR). “Thanks to this fix, the USFS will be able to focus on efforts to reduce the risk of wildfires through fire mitigation practices and better forest management that will help protect Southwest Oregon from massive wildfires, instead of leaving the agency—and the forests—in crisis every fire season.” Due to the increasing frequency and intensity of forest fires, the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) has repeatedly exhausted its funding for fire suppression before the fire season ends in recent years. In order to fund its fire suppression costs for the entire season, the USFS has been forced to borrow money from its fire prevention and forest management budget, a destructive cycle known as ‘fire-borrowing’. The Omnibus spending bill includes a fix for fire-borrowing that would allow for wildfires to be considered the same as other natural disasters like hurricanes and tornadoes. This distinction would allow USFS to access funding from disaster relief funds to help suppress fires once their fire suppression account is exhausted, preserving the USFS’s fire prevention, forest management, and other programs’ budgets for their intended purposes. The spending bill also includes funding for the SRS program for two years. The SRS program, which expired in 2015, provides assistance to rural counties affected by the decline in revenue from timber harvests on federal lands. These funds are primarily spent on schools, roads, and law enforcement. “Re-establishing the SRS program provides much-needed relief for Southwest Oregon’s communities,” added Rep. DeFazio. “Now, Congress needs to focus on a comprehensive forest management plan that will give communities economic certainty for the future while protecting our natural resources.” The spending bill, which was released yesterday, will fund the federal government through September 30, 2018. The House is expected to vote on the bill today. To avoid a government shutdown, both houses must pass the omnibus legislation before midnight Friday when current funding runs out.
03.20.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) last week sent Veterans’ Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin a letter urging him to make significant changes to the structure and focus of the agency. The letter pressed Shulkin to restructure or abolish Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs), the VA’s regional authorities which oversee health centers across the country. “Unfortunately VISN 20 and VISNs around the country seem to be satisfied with the status quo, despite repeated calls by veterans and VA employees to raise the standard of care and provide employees with safer and healthier work environments,” wrote Rep. DeFazio. “…If VISNs cannot function at a high level that will actually perform meaningful oversight roles, I recommend the VA abolish the VISN structure and establish a stronger oversight authority. Our veterans deserve better.” Last fall, DeFazio directly appealed to Secretary Shulkin to address serious mismanagement issues within the VA Roseburg Health System (VARHS), after repeated requests for investigation into the issues were ignored by the regional VISN office, VISN 20 Northwest Network. When asked if VISN 20 would change any of their oversight operations to be more thorough in their review of VARHS moving forward, the Network Director said no. VISN 20’s network includes VARHS and the Walla Walla VA, which are ranked among the bottom 15 of the VA’s lowest performing facilities. VISN 20 also has oversight over the VA facility in White City, Oregon, which is rated as a one-star facility. “While I am pleased that the VA has finally taken steps to address serious issues at VARHS, it and other low-performing facilities will only achieve long-term, sustainable change with proper oversight,” said Rep. DeFazio. “VISN 20 and other VISNs across the country aren’t delivering, and it is beyond time for change.” While Secretary Shulkin has called for the formation of a special team to develop a nationwide reorganization plan for VISNs, there remains far more to be done in order to ensure Oregon’s veterans receive the highest standard of care. DeFazio has joined Reps. Ann Kuster (NH-02) and Julia Brownley (CA-26) in requesting a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on the effectiveness of the VISN system. To see a PDF version of Rep. DeFazio’s letter to Secretary Shulkin, click here.
03.16.2018	Today, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Suzan DelBene (D-WA) were joined by 44 Members of Congress—primarily from Oregon, Washington, and California—in sending a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to increase the federal funding level to $16.1 million in the Fiscal Year 2019 to fully build out and maintain an earthquake early warning system on the West Coast. A limited earthquake early warning system developed by Caltech, UC Berkeley, University of Washington, and the University of Oregon in conjunction with the United States Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed in a beta testing phase and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. “In an earthquake, every second counts,” said Rep. DeFazio. “The University of Oregon and other West Coast universities are doing important work to build an early warning system that will give people extra seconds to save lives, avoid or reduce injury and mitigate infrastructure damage during a major earthquake. I will continue to push for the funding necessary to develop and deploy earthquake preparedness and earthquake early warning systems.” “Congress must continue to fund construction and maintenance of an earthquake early warning system along the West Coast, which sits atop major fault lines,” said Rep. Schiff. “Our residents and infrastructure are particularly vulnerable to earthquakes. The earthquake early warning technology has been proven sound during testing in the United States, as well is in countries like Mexico and Japan, and it would be irresponsible not to provide this life-saving technology to the public before the next ‘big one’ hits.” “While the Pacific Northwest is one of the most beautiful places to live, its landscape also presents unique challenges,” said Rep. DelBene. “Unfortunately, we know all too well earthquakes can cause great devastation and the U.S. Geological Survey has told us it’s only a matter of time before the next big one. We can and must make smart investments now in resources and research efforts to help prevent future natural disasters from becoming national tragedies.” Schiff, DelBene and DeFazio were joined on the letter by Representatives Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), John Garamendi (D-CA), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Denny Heck (D-WA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Scott Peters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA). Schiff first secured $5 million in funding for the system in FY15. Congress increased funding to $8.2 million for FY16 and then again to $10.2 for FY17. The FY2018 House Interior bill included $10.2 million, but this funding has not been enacted. This year, the members are requesting $16.1 million in funding. It is estimated that a full system of sensors will cost $38.2 million to build out along the West Coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. The full letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, is below: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: As you craft the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) with $16.1 million for the construction, operation and maintenance of a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System, also called ShakeAlert. The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon, has developed ShakeAlert, which detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people with several to tens of seconds of warning in California, and up to few minutes in Washington and Oregon through their phones, computers and other media. This is a “smart infrastructure” investment that will ultimately provide advanced notice so people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole. We appreciate the growing support from the Committee that we saw over the past few years, and we hope that this support will continue this year. While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We appreciate your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
03.15.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced two bills that would ensure family members get the full survivors’ benefits they are entitled to after the death of a veteran or Social Security beneficiary. “Right now, red tape is keeping grieving families from the benefits they are entitled to,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Oftentimes families rely on these payments to cover mortgages, medical expenses and funeral costs, yet government agencies are adding additional strain at an already emotional time by overly-complicating the benefits process. My legislation will cut through the bureaucracy to streamline the process and ensure that survivors receive the benefits they are due.” Currently, most veterans’ surviving spouses are entitled to keep the month of death benefits or disability payment after their spouse passes away. In many cases, however, the Veterans Administration (VA) electronically withdraws the last payment made to a beneficiary after their death—without proper notice. The VA then requires surviving spouses to apply for the final payment, regardless of whether or not they are automatically eligible for it. Rep. DeFazio’s bill, the bipartisan Veterans Survivor Comfort Act, H.R. 5301, would prohibit the VA from retroactively withdrawing the benefit or disability payment from eligible surviving spouses after it has been sent out. The Benefit Adjustment of Social Security Income Compensation (BASIC) Act, H.R. 5302, would offer similar protections to surviving spouses of Social Security beneficiaries. Currently, Social Security benefits are not paid during the month a beneficiary dies, and in many cases family members receive the final Social Security check only to be told the check must be returned. This policy adversely affects individuals who are already distressed by the death of a family member. The BASIC Act would require the SSA to pay a prorated amount of benefits to the surviving spouse, based upon the date of the beneficiary’s death. In addition, the legislation would increase the current $255 lump-sum ‘death-payment’ made after a beneficiary’s death. The BASIC Act has been endorsed by both the Senior Citizen’s League and Social Security Works. # # #
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON—Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Walter Jones (NC-03) Friday sent President Trump a letter, signed by 37 other members, asking he provide legal reasons for the use of military force in Syria. It has been reported that the administration has a memo detailing the justification for the April 6, 2017 U.S. strikes against the Shayrat military airbase in Syria, and both representatives are requesting that this information be shared with Congress and the American public. Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution grants Congress the power to declare war, and the 1973 War Powers Resolution requires the president to report to Congress within 48 hours of introducing U.S. Armed Forces into hostilities if there has not been a formal declaration of war. Given Congress’ constitutionally-mandated role, the Trump Administration should provide a copy of any existing documents so that Congress can assess the need for the continued use of force in Syria. “I believe that, in sending troops to Syria without asking for Congressional authorization, President Trump has grossly overstepped his authority,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR). “If there exists evidence to the contrary, I believe that the Trump Administration should share that information immediately with the American public. I criticized Presidents Bush and Obama for overstepping their constitutional authority in committing troops to the Middle East without congressional approval—and I will not hesitate to offer that same criticism of President Trump.” “Over the course of many presidencies, Congress has fallen into a bad habit of abdicating its Constitutional duty to debate and declare war,” said Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC). “It is way past time we reclaim this power, and ensure that the United States does not fall into any further unfounded military conflicts.” A recognized public watchdog of Congress’s power to declare war, Rep. DeFazio has repeatedly introduced legislation clarifying the President’s war-making authorities throughout his tenure in Congress. To see a PDF version of the letter, click here.
03.07.2018	Oregon’s U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, along with Congressmen Kurt Schrader and Peter DeFazio, who is ranking member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure committee, today announced more than $8 million in grant funding to repair and renovate the North Santiam River Bridge, a major rural connector on a designated freight route near Mill City, which sits in Linn and Marion counties. “This is the type of direct investment we should be making in our bridges, roads, and other infrastructure,” Merkley said. “With this grant funding, not only will a route that connects rural areas to important goods and services be repaired, but also a system of street, bicycle and pedestrian improvements will be completed. I will continue to use my position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to fight for these kinds of investments to create good jobs now, and the infrastructure to support growth and prosperity into the future.” “Infrastructure investment is a must for Oregon and nationwide to maintain strong transportation connections for motorists, commuters, pedestrians and cyclists,” Wyden said. “I am gratified that those who live and work in rural Marion and Linn counties will benefit from this investment. The combination of local and federal dollars is a winning equation for the local economy and rural life.” “This highly competitive TIGER grant will make a major impact in the Mill City community by funding much-needed repairs to a critical piece of infrastructure in Oregon,” DeFazio said. “The resulting improvements from these repairs will allow even more use of the North Santiam River Bridge—from bicycles, pedestrians, freight, and passenger vehicles. I’m proud I was able to help secure the funds that will help this infrastructure last for many decades to come.” “The ability to bring a project like this one to reality can mean the difference between a flourishing and a floundering local economy, particularly in our rural communities like Mill City,” Schrader said. “Having roads, bridges, and pathways of all sorts are an absolute necessity to every modern economy. Without the ability to safely and quickly transport people and goods, a rural community is severely restricted in its ability to grow. This grant is huge for Mill City, and the larger community, as it continues its economic climb following its decades of economic hardships with the decline of timber.” Mill City sits in both Linn County (south of the Santiam River) and Marion County (north of the Santiam River). In addition to repairing the North Santiam River Bridge, the TIGER (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) Grant of $8,082,574 will repair and renovate a local historic railroad pedestrian bridge and complete a system of improvements in Mill City, including constructing a new transit shelter and street, bicycle and pedestrian improvements. “This project is a great opportunity to improve not only Mill City, but the entire region,” said Marion County Commissioner Kevin Cameron. “This is an excellent example of cooperation between city, county, state, and federal agencies to enhance economic development efforts, as well as improve the quality of life for the residents of the North Santiam Canyon.” “Grants such as this make it possible for small, rural communities to upgrade infrastructure to meet the demands of a growing population,” said Mill City Mayor Tim Kirsch. “We appreciate having Oregon’s federal delegation in our corner. Their support is appreciated and has been instrumental in helping us remain competitive for federal grant opportunities.” “This grant award is a reflection of the success of the Mill City, Marion County, and Linn County team effort,” said Linn County Engineer Chuck Knoll. “We look forward to a continuation of this collaboration in the development, design, and construction of this project.” TIGER grants are awarded on a competitive basis for capital investments in transportation infrastructure. Last fall, both Congressman Schrader and Ranking Member DeFazio sent letters to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao in support of city’s application for TIGER grant funding
03.01.2018	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)’s Office of the Medical Inspector (OMI) today released a summary of findings following an investigation initiated by Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) into allegations of mismanagement and substandard patient care within the Roseburg VA Healthcare System (VARHS). The VA found evidence substantiating six concerns, including problems with employee management and intimidation, medical care, and inadequate resources. Due to their findings, the VA issued 28 recommendations to local, regional and national level offices that have or will ultimately lead to significant improvements within VARHS as well as VA Medical Centers around the country. “I’m pleased to see that the VA has substantiated the numerous claims employees, patients, and former staff have raised with my office,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) “The recommendations laid out in the summary are only the beginning, though—I will continue to work with stakeholders on the local, regional and national levels to ensure these recommendations are implemented and Oregon’s veterans and veterans nationwide get the care they deserve.” The recommendations made to VARHS include: Refining and standardizing radiology procedures, leading to reduced patient wait times and faster diagnostic time; Improving communication between medical facilities within the area and ensuring adequate medical coverage for low-coverage departments; Removal of several staff members from supervisory responsibilities—in some cases, which has already occurred; Auditing of several medical cases with unfavorable patient outcomes; and Training of staff members on CREW, a VA-led culture change initiative. Once finalized, a copy of the final report will be provided to Rep. DeFazio as well as to the Chairs of the House and Senate Committees on Veterans Affairs. A second investigation, conducted by the VA’s Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection (OAWP), is expected to conclude in the coming weeks. The OAWP is expected to address allegations of whistleblower retaliation and employee intimidation. Following the resignation of former VARHS Director Doug Paxton last month, the VA assigned interim Director David Whitmer to lead VARHS. Rep. DeFazio has been in close contact with Mr. Whitmer, and he has reiterated his commitment to improving the Roseburg VA system. “VARHS has suffered from years of mismanagement, and it is long past due that the VA implements lasting, meaningful change,” added Rep. DeFazio. # # #
02.22.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today applauded the decision by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to award a $300,000 Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant to mAbDx Inc., a Eugene-based immunodiagnostics company. The company, a University of Oregon spin-off, was founded in 2011 by former UO researcher Michael Marusich, PhD. The award will allow mAbDx to accelerate development of an easy-to-use, point-of-care diagnostic test for the Zika virus. Marusich has established an approach to isolate key components that can identify Zika without confusing it with other very similar viruses such as Dengue, yellow fever and West Nile virus. mAbDx is now using these Zika-specific antibodies to make a simple device, similar to commonly used home pregnancy test kits, that can detect Zika in a single drop of blood. The test requires no special training or equipment and results are visible to the naked eye within minutes. “A small federal investment like an SBIR grant can make a big difference in advancing local innovation and making a positive global impact,” said Rep. DeFazio. “This kind of knowledge-based economic activity is more prevalent than many realize, creating jobs and prosperity for our region.” “Many innovations derived from research discoveries, including this powerful diagnostic tool from mAbDx, provide both economic rewards as well as important human health benefits,” said David Conover, UO’s vice president for research and innovation. “We congratulate the company on this well-deserved grant, which will enable the firm to accelerate the development of this potentially life-saving technology.” “Early diagnosis is essential for faster, more effective therapies and to help limit the spread of Zika,” Marusich said. “This breakthrough in developing a simple, rapid test to diagnose this dangerous emerging disease will have an immediate positive impact on healthcare world-wide.” SBIR grants, which are peer reviewed and highly competitive, are intended to help small businesses bridge the gap between basic science and commercialization of new discoveries and technologies. This successful Phase I award recognizes that mAbDx’s test will be a significant advance over existing technologies and will transform current diagnostic practices by providing those at risk with immediate access to affordable diagnostic test results, even in resource-limited settings. mAbDx is housed in a private, custom-built biotechnology lab in the Lewis Integrative Science Building at the University of Oregon as part of company incubator space sponsored in part by Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI). # # #
02.12.2018	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following response to the release of President Donald Trump’s infrastructure proposal: “For more than a year, we have been hearing from President Trump about a big, beautiful infrastructure proposal. Now, it turns out President Trump’s plan is embarrassingly small. President Trump’s plan slashes real Federal investments and shifts the burden to cash-strapped States and local governments. It would cut more than $168 billion from existing transportation and infrastructure programs to pay for Wall Street and foreign investors to toll our roads, and it would gut bedrock environmental, clean water, and clean air protections under the guise of speeding up projects. “This is not a real infrastructure plan—it is simply another scam, an attempt to sell our nation’s infrastructure and create windfall profit for Wall Street while rolling back environmental protections. Democrats propose A Better Deal to Rebuild America – an infrastructure plan that is five times bigger than President Trump’s proposal. This proposal provides $1 trillion in Federal funding to rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges, transit systems, ports, harbors, airports and schools, extend high-speed internet to every family in America and put more than 16 million people to work. “If we want to put America back to work, get America moving again, and make us more competitive in the world economy, we must strengthen the Federal commitment to our national transportation network by providing sustainable, long-term funding. I urge President Trump to work with Democrats to find sustainable solutions, rather than sell off our valuable infrastructure to the lowest bidder.” BACKGROUND ON THE TRUMP TRANSPORTATION PLAN Doesn’t increase investment in our Nation’s infrastructure; shrinks Federal support and devolves responsibility for our Nation’s essential infrastructure to States and local governments; reduces access to Federal funding for urban and suburban areas; gives private entities access to scarce government funding; creates incentives to privatize infrastructure (e.g., authorizing States to toll all Interstate highways and privatize rest areas); and rolls back labor laws (e.g., Davis-Bacon Act), Buy America, environmental protections, and opportunities for diverse, small businesses to participate. The Trump plan must be considered in the larger context of the President’s Fiscal Year 2019 Budget, which proposes to cut more than $168 billion of Federal highway, transit, Amtrak, and water infrastructure funding over the next 10 years, and privatize our air traffic control system, which will increase the deficit by $50 billion more. White House staff have suggested that cuts to Amtrak and public transit investment are intended to provide some of the budgetary offsets for the Trump infrastructure plan. Therefore, the Trump plan, coupled with the President’s Budget, amounts to, little, if any, new Federal transportation and water infrastructure investment. --30--
02.09.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement in response to the Continuing Budget Resolution put forth by House Republicans: “Today I voted against the Continuing Resolution, the fifth short-term extension to fund the federal government in more than four months. We are running our government in fits and starts, instead of addressing the issues facing working families today. I cannot support yet another stop-gap funding measure that not only kicks the can down the road, but explodes our debt and provides a massive funding increase to the Pentagon, which has a disgraceful record of mismanaging taxpayer dollars. “This spending bill raises federal spending by more than $300 billion dollars, setting the stage for the U.S. to owe nearly $23 trillion in national debt by 2027. This is in addition to the $1.5 trillion the Republican tax bill will cost our nation. “In December of 2016, the Washington Post reported $125 billion in administrative waste at the Pentagon. Just this week, Politico reported that as a result of the Pentagon’s first-ever audit, the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), one of the Pentagon’s largest agencies, cannot account for more than $800 million in construction projects. With the audit likely to produce even more examples of the Pentagon’s lack of proper accounting and use of funds, now is not the time to hand the Pentagon a massive increase. “I will not stand by while Republicans hand billions to a bloated and wasteful Pentagon as a means to justify devastating cuts to vital programs that thousands of working Americans depend on such as Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid.”
02.06.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today urged VA Secretary David Shulkin to investigate troubling reports of continued retaliation against whistleblowers within the VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS). Despite multiple ongoing VA investigations, requested by DeFazio, into mismanagement, whistleblower retaliation, and poor patient care at VARHS, DeFazio has continued to receive reports of retaliation and abuse against whistleblowers. DeFazio also raised concerns about the use of the peer review process, usually a tool used to improve doctors’ performance, as a mechanism to threaten and punish medical staff at VARHS. In addition to reports of abuse at VARHS, there are similar instances reported at other VA facilities nationwide. In the letter, DeFazio urged VA Secretary Shulkin to examine the peer review process and produce reforms that can strengthen the process and prevent abuses in the future. The Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act, passed into law last year with DeFazio’s support, enhanced protections for federal whistleblowers. DeFazio also urged the VA in his letter to ensure these protections are extended to all VA employees, including part-time and contract employees. DeFazio writes, “I am concerned that as the VA works to complete the investigations into mismanagement, whistleblower retaliation, poor patient care, and low employee morale at the VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS), I continue to receive constituent reports of retaliation and abuse against whistleblowers…As you have said before, fundamental change is needed within the VA, especially as it relates to the protection of whistleblowers and those seeking change that will allow the VA to provide veterans with the best care possible.” DeFazio’s letter follows the departure of several senior leadership officials from VARHS, including Director Doug Paxton. A copy of the letter is below. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. February 6, 2018 Secretary David Shulkin U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Shulkin: I am concerned that as the VA works to complete the investigations into mismanagement, whistleblower retaliation, poor patient care, and low employee morale at the VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS), I continue to receive constituent reports of retaliation and abuse against whistleblowers. As you know, late last year with my support, Congress unanimously passed and President Trump signed into law the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act, which enhanced protections for federal whistleblowers and enacted reforms to ensure that managers who retaliate against whistleblowers are held accountable. Those engaging in retaliatory actions at VARHS are breaking the law. I was assured by your staff, as the investigation launched, that VARHS management was reminded about the consequences of retaliation, yet the reports persist. Take, for example, the case of Dr. Scott Russi. Dr. Russi is a retired Air Force Colonel who was deployed four times as a combat surgeon and once as a hospital commander during tours in Afghanistan and Iraq. After retiring, he moved to Springfield, Oregon where he became the trauma medical director at a local hospital. He was the on-call surgeon on October 1, 2015, when students from Umpqua Community College were rushed for treatment as a result of the deadly shooting that took place there. In early 2017, he began working at the brand-new Eugene VA clinic as a way to help his fellow veterans. Dr. Russi was terminated from the VA mere months after beginning work at VARHS, under suspicious circumstances as a result of various encounters with a Chief of Surgery with a record of abuse, mismanagement, and substandard care. VARHS leadership, including the Chief of Surgery, used a secretive peer review process to attack the care he provided in four separate cases. Beyond being terminated, Dr. Russi’s previous exemplary medical career is now under threat. Last month, during an active, ongoing VA investigation of VARHS, Dr. Russi received a letter from then-VARHS Director Paxton stating that despite comprehensive supporting evidence he sent refuting the claims against his care, he had failed to provide any additional qualifying evidence that changed the original findings of the peer review. The letter noted that if Dr. Russi failed to provide any additional relevant information, a final report to the Oregon State Licensing Board would be based solely on the negative evaluations from the peer reviews. As noted, this action was taken despite ongoing, independent reviews from the VA’s Office of the Medical Inspector (OMI) and the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection (OAWP) of Dr. Russi’s case. Dr. Russi notified my office about this action, and my office immediately contacted the acting Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Health, Dr. Miguel LaPuz, and requested he put this action on hold, to which he agreed. Please notify me immediately if the status of this action has changed. While Dr. LaPuz shared that the VA is considering whether disciplinary action is necessary against Mr. Paxton and other leaders, Peter O’Rourke, Executive Director of OAWP, informed me that Dr. Russi may not be eligible for whistleblower protection status as a result of his disputed employment status. This is of serious concern as VA employees, regardless of their status, should be properly protected from retaliation and abuse. The use of the peer review process as a mechanism to threaten and punish doctors has become an all too familiar tactic at VARHS, and there are reports of abuse at other VA Medical Centers around the country. I have heard from a number of VA employees who have been victimized by a manager’s punitive use of the peer review process. The peer review process should be used to help doctors improve their practice and improve health care for our nation’s veterans, not a tool for administrators to attack quality providers or whistleblowers who call out nefarious practices. I urge you to carefully review Dr. Russi’s case and ensure that the VA is as clear, thorough, and transparent as possible. I also urge you to examine the peer review process and produce reforms that can strengthen this process and prevent abuses. If legislation is needed to safeguard this process or additional protections are needed for whistleblowers at all levels, I stand ready and willing to work with you. As you have said before, fundamental change is needed within the VA, especially as it relates to the protection of whistleblowers and those seeking change that will allow the VA to provide veterans with the best care possible. I look forward to reviewing the VA’s report of the investigations into VARHS. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress
02.02.2018	This week, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) asked the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works to fully fund critical repairs to Port Orford’s failed breakwater after money for these necessary repairs was redirected by the Army Corps to address disaster recovery needs. “Storm damage, coupled with the fact that the channel and harbor lack annual dredging by the Corps, has created significant obstacles for the fishing community. Without annual dredging, shoals now prevent boats from accessing the ocean and launching except at high tide. This shoaling has also increased wave impact along the dock wall, making launch and retrieval extremely dangerous. Because of the cost of dredging, boat damage, and limited launching caused by shoaling, the breakwater must be modified to alleviate the shoaling problem. … This breakwater modification and repair is vital to the Port of Port Orford. I request that you strongly consider including funding in the Corps FY18 Operations and Maintenance Work Plan to move forward on those repairs,” wrote DeFazio. The Corps stated in its July 2014 breakwater inspection report that the role that the breakwater plays in encouraging sediment buildup should be evaluated prior to designing a repair of the structure. Thanks to FY17 supplemental funding, the Corps was able to begin drafting plans and specs to repair the breakwater, but the port has recently been told that there is no further funding currently available to move forward with the repairs. A full copy of the letter is below. February 1, 2018 Mr. Ryan A. Fisher Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Mr. Fisher: It has come to my attention that the Port of Port Orford, Oregon, is no longer scheduled to receive necessary repairs to its breakwater this year, due to Army Corps funds being redirected to disaster assistance. I write to you asking that you consider including funding to address the repairs needed to Port Orford’s failed breakwater in the Army Corps Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) Work Plan. With a population of just 1,159, the rural coastal community of Port Orford relies on its port as its economic engine. The most recent data (from 2014) of fish landings from Oregon’s Department of Fish and Wildlife show that Port Orford landed 1,363,902 pounds of commercial fish and shellfish, valued at $3.4 million—ranking as the 120th major U.S. port by value landed. While the Port relies primarily on its commercial fishing fleet, it is also host to a marine research industry and range of recreational boating activities. Prior to the Corps’ construction of the breakwater in 1968, the Port was a deep-water port accommodating up to 400-foot lumber carriers. One year after the breakwater was built, the harbor became shoaled, necessitating emergency congressional authorization for the first dredging of the harbor. Since that time, shoaling has been the biggest obstacle for the Port, due to the unique nature of the crane operated boat launch, and vulnerability to shoaling at this critical dockside location in the harbor. Additionally, the breakwater has been damaged by repeated storms over the years, but in 2014 Port Orford was hit with a major winter storm consisting of 100 mile per hour winds and waves reaching 40 feet in height. There were even reports of large boulders from the breakwater wall rolling across the cement dry dock. The storm caused drastic damage to port assets and damaged the breakwater to the point where the midsection is now completely breached and unravelling. Storm damage, coupled with the fact that the channel and harbor lack annual dredging by the Corps, has created significant obstacles for the fishing community. Without annual dredging, shoals now prevent boats from accessing the ocean and launching except at high tide. This shoaling has also increased wave impact along the dock wall, making launch and retrieval extremely dangerous. Because of the cost of dredging, boat damage, and limited launching caused by shoaling, the breakwater must be modified to alleviate the shoaling problem. The Corps stated in its July 2014 breakwater inspection report that the role that the breakwater plays in encouraging sediment deposition should be evaluated prior to designing a repair of the structure.[1] Thanks to FY17 supplemental funding, the Corps was able to begin drafting plans and specs to repair the breakwater, but the port has recently been told that there is no further funding currently available to move forward on performing the repairs. This breakwater modification and repair is vital to the Port of Port Orford. I request that you strongly consider including funding in the Corps FY18 Operations and Maintenance Work Plan to move forward on those repairs. If you have any questions regarding this request, please contact me or have your staff contact Elizabeth Hill of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Democratic Staff at (202) 225-3274. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Ranking Member [1] Port Orford Breakwater Site Inspection Report, 23 July 2014.
02.01.2018	EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on the resignation of VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS) Director Doug Paxton: “I have repeatedly pushed for a change in leadership at VARHS, and I am pleased to see that the Veterans Administration (VA) has taken my concerns seriously. This, along with other recent leadership changes and support from the VA are signals that the VA is committed to improving the deeply-entrenched issues at our Roseburg and Eugene facilities. But these are just steps in a longer process. “Because I raised the chronic issues at the Roseburg VA facility to the VA Secretary, today the VA is announcing nationwide improvements to their oversight process for failing facilities. Thanks to the dozens of VA employees who came forward—at risk to their careers—to report sub-standard practices at VARHS, we are making changes together to improve medical care for all our veterans. “As the VA searches for Director Paxton’s replacement, I have asked them to look for a candidate who is committed to working closely with our active local veterans’ service organizations. I will continue to be in touch with the VA throughout their hiring process and will push for a new director with strong leadership qualities, a history of working in veterans’ healthcare, and a proven track record of success in management. “While I am encouraged by the steps the VA has taken to remedy the serious issues at VARHS, I have pressed them to finalize and deliver the results of their investigations in the coming weeks. “I look forward to working with the interim director to put VARHS on track toward success. I will not rest until VARHS employees and Oregon’s veterans have a health care system that effectively and efficiently serves the community.”
01.30.2018	“Tonight, President Trump declared that, after his first year in office, his administration has made our nation a safer, stronger, and prouder America. Instead, I heard a speech short on policy and long on platitudes and props, one that outlined the many ways that the Trump administration and their irresponsible policies are hurting American workers, seniors, children, and families. “Over the past year, President Trump has made it harder for millions of working families to get ahead. While Republicans tout their recently-passed tax bill as a win for middle class families, it is in actuality a massive giveaway to corporations and America’s very wealthiest. Meanwhile, in 2019 more than 9 million middle class families will face a tax increase because of this bill. The tax plan also blows a colossal hole in our national debt in order to pay for the enormous tax breaks for corporations and wealthy investors, which puts critical entitlement programs at risk—Speaker Ryan has already said that in order to balance the deficit created by the tax plan, Republicans will seek to make drastic cuts to Medicare and Social Security, putting millions of senior’s livelihoods in jeopardy and endangering the futures of millions who will one day benefit from these programs. “To add insult to injury, this bill encourages major corporations to outsource their jobs to our foreign competitors—despite President Trump calling himself the ultimate job creator. Since passage of the Republican tax plan, more than 30,000 layoffs have been announced from major companies across the nation. “This is not the only instance of President Trump failing the American worker—prior to taking office, he repeatedly promised to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the disastrous trade deal that has decimated American manufacturing and sent hundreds of thousands of middle-class jobs overseas. While the Trump administration has taken steps to improve our nation’s unfair trade policies with our partners, in particular Chinese and Canadian subsidies into our hardwood and softwood industries, we have not seen enough commitment from this administration to push for a new NAFTA agreement that protects not only our workers but our environment, consumer safety, and U.S. sovereignty. “Tonight we heard President Trump applaud the repeal of a critical pillar of the Affordable Care Act–a move expected to leave more than 13 million Americans without health insurance coverage and raise premiums by ten percent. I have never said that the Affordable Care Act was a perfect bill, but these heartless cuts to coverage will do nothing but take our country back to the days when the number one cause of bankruptcy for Americans was medical costs from catastrophic injury or unexpected illness. While Republicans spent endless hours laser-focused on undoing President Obama’s signature achievement, they left critical safety net programs including the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers (CHCs), unfunded for months. Their obsession with repealing the Affordable Care Act has created tremendous instability in the health insurance marketplace, causing premiums to skyrocket, yet they offer no solutions to provide relief to the American families impacted by their partisanship.” “Tonight, I had hoped that President Trump would provide Congress with his vision for a real, robust plan to invest at least $1 trillion to rebuild our nation’s crumbling roads, bridges, ports, airports, water infrastructure and transit systems. Unfortunately, the President once again delivered a nothing burger, providing only generic talking points without any specific details about how he plans to address our infrastructure crisis. “As I have repeatedly said, if the Administration wants bipartisan support they must offer an infrastructure plan that strengthens the Federal commitment to our national transportation network by providing sustainable, long-term funding, and filling the crater in the Highway Trust Fund. President Trump cannot pretend to solve our infrastructure woes by slashing real investments to States and local governments, pushing the responsibility off Federal balance sheets, cutting existing transportation programs to pay for Wall Street and foreign investors to toll our roads, and gutting bedrock environmental protections. Regrettably, the Administration’s plan will likely do just that. “We need to invest in rebuilding America, not sell it off. If the President is serious about developing a bipartisan plan to invest in infrastructure, he needs to forward a plan that both Democrats and Republicans can support.” “I invited as my guest tonight Jesus Narvaez, a young man from Eugene who is a Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program recipient and attends Lane Community College, where he is studying to become a teacher. Jesus is one of millions of immigrants who were brought into the United States through no fault of their own by their parents at a young age and have only known this country as their home. President Trump’s decision to terminate the DACA program is not only heartless, it has thrown millions of lives into turmoil, and if the President does not work with Congress to resolve the issue, young people across the country will be forced to leave behind their families and the only life they have ever known. “However, there is no question that our current immigration system is broken and that Congress and the president must act to effectively reform the system and secure our borders. Throughout my time in Congress, I have continually fought to restrict individuals from entering the United States who would do our citizens harm—whether it be through terrorist attacks, drug smuggling, or gang violence.While we need smart investments in our border security efforts, a multi-billion dollar wall on our southern border will not stop migrants from entering our country, and it will not stop criminals from smuggling drugs across the border. As new ideas on how to best repair our broken immigration system are put forward in the coming weeks, I will be sure to look carefully at each proposal to ensure that it is both a wise use of our taxpayer dollars and will be a true solution to keep our nation safe from terrorists, drug runners, and gang violence. “As members of Congress, our number one priority in the coming weeks must be to avert another government shutdown. We cannot run our country on a month-to-month budget—it is not only reckless, but it puts our nation at risk and degrades our military readiness. Defense Secretary Mattis has repeatedly warned against operating our government under a near-constant continuing resolution, saying ‘no enemy in the field has done more to harm the readiness of the U.S. military than…operating in nine of the last 10 years under continuing resolutions.’ President Trump and Speaker Ryan must put forth truly bipartisan solutions that both Republicans and Democrats can rally behind in order to keep our government running smoothly.” # # #
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on the latest stop-gap funding measure to fund the federal government through February 8, 2018: “This continuing resolution is the fourth short-term extension to fund the federal government in nearly four months. The budget was due on October 1, 2017—115 days ago. Running our country on a month-to-month budget is not only reckless, it puts our nation at risk and degrades our military readiness. “Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has repeatedly warned against operating our government under a near-constant continuing resolution, saying ‘no enemy in the field has done more to harm the readiness of the U.S. military than…operating in nine of the last 10 years under continuing resolutions.’ “While my Republican colleagues purport to be ardent supporters of the military, their party—which controls both Congress and the White House—refuses to work together to find a bipartisan solution to fully fund the government, instead spending their time demonizing Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) program beneficiaries. By continuing to kick the can down the road, they are leaving not only our military, but hundreds of government programs and the millions who depend on them, in limbo. The failure to properly budget is holding back $1.2 billion from counties and cities across the United States which need to plan for critical road and bridge construction and repair projects, and vital social and nutritional programs are underfunded. “I cannot support yet another continuing resolution that only pushes these problems into the not-so-distant-future. We must find a bipartisan solution that fully funds both our government and critical safety net programs that protect our nation’s seniors, service members, and families.” # # #
01.19.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today applauded the U.S. Forest Service’s decision to use a tree from Oregon’s Willamette National Forest as the 2018 U.S. Capitol Christmas Tree. The tree will be a gift from the Willamette National Forest and the State of Oregon to the people of the United States and will be displayed on the West Lawn of the Capitol in Washington, D.C. during the 2018 Christmas season. The tree will come from the Sweet Home Ranger District. Additionally, 70 smaller trees will be sent to Washington to decorate government buildings and public buildings. “The U.S. Forest Service couldn’t have made a better choice,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “This year’s Capitol Christmas Tree will represent not only Oregon’s outstanding natural resources, but also our state’s historic beginnings and rich diversity. I’m proud to share a tiny slice of Oregon’s 4th Congressional District’s incredible beauty with all of America.” The theme for this year’s Capitol Christmas Tree is “Find Your Trail” in recognition of both the 50th anniversary of the National Trails System Act and the 175th anniversary of the Oregon Trail. The tree will travel to Washington D.C. on the reverse path of the Oregon Trail by modern-day wagon train. Oregonians will contribute 10,000 handmade ornaments celebrating Oregon’s diverse history, natural resources, and people to decorate the tree.
01.18.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on the stop-gap funding measure proposed by House Republicans to fund the federal government through February 16, 2018: “This Continuing Resolution is the fourth short-term extension to fund the federal government in nearly four months. There is no way that we can efficiently run our country on a month-to-month budget—it is not only reckless, it undermines the confidence the American people have in their own Congress. “Republicans control Congress and the White House. Instead of tackling the country’s most pressing problems, leaders spend time bickering amongst themselves and lurching from short-term fix to short-term fix. Meanwhile, counties and cities across the United States are left without the resources they need to plan for critical road and bridge construction and repair projects and vital social and nutritional programs are underfunded. “This spending bill fails to fund critical health programs that have gone unfunded since September 2017. It also allows cuts to Medicaid funding for safety net hospitals in Oregon and across the country, which care primarily for low-income and uninsured patients—a loss of more than $2.5 million for Oregon hospitals. Furthermore, the bill does nothing to fund Community Health Centers, which serve 30,000 individuals in Lane County alone. “The bill would withhold authorized funding for transportation and infrastructure, preventing $1.2 billion from going to investments in federal highways, public transit, and highway safety. “We must find a bipartisan solution that fully funds both our government and critical safety net programs that protect our nation’s seniors, service members, and families. I am appalled that Republican leadership continues to ignore responsible solutions to our budget problems, focusing instead on winning cheap political points at the expense of federal workers and a functioning federal government. I urge my Republican colleagues to put forth a real, bipartisan solution to fully fund the government.”
01.17.2018	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Michael Capuano (D-MA) sent a letter to Amtrak President and Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson requesting a detailed update on Amtrak’s safety culture and implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC) on routes owned or operated by Amtrak. “We would like to know what “safety culture” weaknesses Amtrak has identified throughout the organization and what specific steps Amtrak is taking to resolve them immediately. If there are problems holding the organization back from advancing the best safety practices, we would like Amtrak to identify them. Amtrak’s labor unions have been copied on this letter and we welcome their views on safety at Amtrak as well. Acknowledging that Amtrak has a weak safety culture is the first step toward fixing it, but the travelling public should not have to wait for another incident to know whether Amtrak has sufficiently addressed these issues. Amtrak should be the safest passenger rail service provider in the world, and we hope to help you on that trajectory,” wrote the Members. Amtrak has publicly acknowledged the organization has a relaxed safety culture that needs to be improved. Amtrak’s CEO raised this issue most recently in the aftermath of the December 18, 2017 Amtrak Cascades Train 501 derailment in DuPont, Washington, which killed three passengers and injured many others. According to the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the train was traveling approximately 80 miles per hour into a 30 mile-per-hour curve. Shortly after the incident, NTSB confirmed that it would not have occurred had PTC been operational on the line. PTC implementation must be a top priority for Amtrak, regardless of whether Amtrak owns the infrastructure or equipment. DeFazio and Capuano have requested information on the status of PTC implementation on all routes owned or operated by Amtrak. In addition, last week DeFazio and Capuano introduced H.R. 4766, the “Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act”, to speed up the implementation of life-saving PTC technology that could prevent future catastrophic rail accidents. A full copy of the letter is below: January 17, 2018 Mr. Richard Anderson President and Chief Executive Officer Amtrak 60 Massachusetts Avenue NE Washington, DC 20002 Dear Mr. Anderson: We write today requesting further information on two issues that should be high priorities for Amtrak—improving your safety culture and speeding the installation of Positive Train Control (PTC). On December 18, 2017, Amtrak’s Cascades train 501 derailed in DuPont, Washington, killing three passengers and injuring 62 passengers and crewmembers. Eight individuals in highway vehicles were also injured. One day after this tragic incident, you hosted a media conference during which you spoke about Amtrak’s weak safety culture, acknowledging: We have to continue to improve and evolve the safety culture at Amtrak”… “You can count on Amtrak following through on NTSB recommendations and continuing the good work that was started by my predecessor Wick Moorman, the former CEO of Norfolk Southern railroad, a year ago and continuing to work to reform and invest in the safety culture of Amtrak.[1] We appreciate your continued focus on safety, but this is not the first time that Amtrak has publicly acknowledged what appears to be a persistent, and disturbing, relaxed safety culture that permeates throughout the organization. On April 3, 2016, Amtrak train 89, travelling from Philadelphia to Washington, struck a backhoe in Chester, Pennsylvania, which resulted in the death of two roadway workers and injuries to 39 others. In the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) final report on the incident, the NTSB cited a weak safety culture at Amtrak as a contributing factor: The Chester accident investigation revealed more than 2 dozen unsafe conditions—many involving safety rule violations and risky behaviors by workers. These safety shortcomings occurred across several levels of the Amtrak organization—maintenance of way, dispatchers, management—and reveal Amtrak’s weak safety management. An inconsistent vision of safety throughout the organization, hostile attitudes between labor and management about no-tolerance rule violations, and ill-equipped work crews were among the observed safety culture. Moreover, it is disconcerting that three of the Amtrak employees involved in the accident tested positive for potentially impairing drugs. The company’s safety program and its implementation at all levels of the company were found to be weak and focused on only the lowest level of employees: the roadway workers.[2] As a result of this investigation, the NTSB made numerous recommendations to Amtrak and labor organizations to improve safety. These recommendations included a recommendation for Amtrak and labor organizations to work collaboratively to develop a comprehensive safety management system that bolsters safety goals and programs with executive management accountability; incorporates risk management controls for all operations affecting employees, contractors, and the traveling public; improves continually through safety data monitoring and feedback; and is promoted at all levels of the company. A week prior to the November 14, 2017 release of the NTSB’s final report on the Chester incident, Amtrak sent a letter to NTSB Chairman Sumwalt highlighting steps Amtrak has taken since the incident. These steps include formation of the Safety, Compliance and Training organization in February 2017, aimed at improving safety programs, organizational culture, and training; completing a gap assessment focused on the safety organization (in place at the time of the incident) and the needs of the corporation; and developing a safety management system. Unfortunately, it appears that Amtrak’s efforts to strengthen safety practices did not go far enough. NTSB Chairman Sumwalt stated at the November hearing that Amtrak’s “safety culture is failing, and is primed to fail again, until and unless Amtrak changes the way it practices safety management. Investigators found a labor-management relationship so adversarial that safety programs have become contentious at the bargaining table, with the unions ultimately refusing to participate.”[3] In fact, Amtrak leadership has acknowledged its weak safety culture numerous times in the past two years, with little reassurance to the travelling public and employees that safety truly is a top priority. Amtrak must do better. We would like to know what “safety culture” weaknesses Amtrak has identified throughout the organization and what specific steps Amtrak is taking to resolve them immediately. If there are problems holding the organization back from advancing the best safety practices, we would like Amtrak to identify them. Amtrak’s labor unions have been copied on this letter and we welcome their views on safety at Amtrak as well. Acknowledging that Amtrak has a weak safety culture is the first step toward fixing it, but the travelling public should not have to wait for another incident to know whether Amtrak has sufficiently addressed those issues. Amtrak should be the safest passenger rail service provider in the world, and we hope to help you on that trajectory. To that end, we believe the installation of PTC should also be a top priority for Amtrak. We are in receipt of your January 9, 2018 letter to Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao regarding Amtrak’s progress toward installation of PTC. In the letter, Amtrak states that it believes “the installation of PTC on the required routes nationwide will make the entire U.S. rail network safer for passengers, railroad employees, and the cities and towns which the national rail network traverses.” We agree, but Amtrak, Sound Transit, and the State of Washington, should have realized this before it initiated service on the Point Defiance Bypass route and installed PTC, regardless of the December 31, 2018 deadline mandated by Congress. Amtrak maintains it did not own the locomotives or the infrastructure over which it operated on December 18, 2017. That is no excuse. As the operator, you are responsible for safety. Since the incident, it has become increasingly clear that we have no idea what the status is for PTC implementation on equipment that Amtrak does not own but operates, such as State-supported routes, like the Point Defiance Bypass, and on routes that Amtrak does not own but where Amtrak trains operate. As you know, this information has not been included in your reports to FRA. Instead, Amtrak only reports on progress toward implementing PTC across routes and on equipment that Amtrak owns and controls, leaving out large portions of Amtrak’s operations. We want and need the full picture, regardless of whether Amtrak owns it. If you operate it or operate on it, we want to know the status of PTC implementation in detail, including information on locomotives that are equipped by route, installation of track segments and other infrastructure by route, and information on whether your back office servers are connected to the back office servers of other railroads by route. By February 16, 2018, we ask that you provide us with the detail you are expected to provide the FRA in annual and quarterly reports for each route Amtrak owns or operates (by route). If you need have any questions regarding this request, please contact me or have your staff contact Elizabeth Hill, Democratic staff of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, at 202-225-3274. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO MICHAEL CAPUANO Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials cc: Transportation Communications Union Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees Sheet Metal Air Rail Transportation Workers Transportation Workers Union International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen International Association of Machinist and Aerospace Workers UNITE-HERE Fraternal Order of Police National Conference of Firemen and Oilers Division, SEIU American Train Dispatchers Association International Brotherhood of Boilermakers and Blacksmiths --30-- [1] KGW-TV. Airdate December 19, 2017. [2] National Transportation Safety Board. 2017. Amtrak Train Collision with Maintenance of Way Equipment, Chester, Pennsylvania, April 3, 2016. NTSB/RAR-17/02. Washington, DC. [3] NTSB News Release. Ignored Safety Procedures, Fractured Safety Program Led to Fatal Amtrak Derailment. November 14, 2017.
01.12.2018	Rep. Peter DeFazio today sent a letter to Governor Kate Brown, State Treasurer Tobias Read, and every member of the Oregon State Legislature urging the lawmakers to consider a proposal to redefine state and local taxes as charitable contributions in response to the recent tax overhaul legislation. The recently-passed tax bill, H.R. 1, includes a provision capping state and local tax deductibility (also known as the SALT deduction). Without the SALT deduction, starting in 2018 many Oregonians will be charged twice on their income, transferring an estimated $3 billion a year from Oregonians to the federal government in order to help pay for massive reductions in corporate taxes and a rate cut for the very wealthiest Americans. These changes will disproportionately affect states with higher state and local taxes—which are also traditionally states that voted against President Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election. In the letter, Rep. DeFazio urges the lawmakers to consider creating a new state fund to which Oregon taxpayers could donate the no-longer deductible portion of their owed income. Taxpayers could then write off that donation as a charitable deduction, encouraging Oregonians to donate to the state government and receiving a credit for their gift in return. Rep. DeFazio writes, “I am appalled that Republican leadership would push such an irresponsible and partisan piece of legislation, continuing to focus on winning cheap political points and keeping their wealthy political donors happy at the expense of the middle class. It’s time to push back against this outrageous excuse for tax reform and explore strategies to protect Oregon.” To see a PDF version of the letter, click here.
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement after meeting with senior officials from the VA on recent investigations into claims of misconduct, mismanagement, and degraded patient care at the VA Roseburg Healthcare System: “This past fall, after receiving more than 200 messages from VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS) employees documenting alarming claims of misconduct, mismanagement and degraded patient care at both the Eugene and Roseburg facilities, I demanded the VA initiate an investigation. As a result, the VA sent a team comprised of officials from the Office of the Medical Inspector (OMI) and the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection (OAWP) to investigate these issues. “Today I met with senior VA leadership to receive a preliminary report on their investigations. During the briefing, the VA outlined a number of personnel and statutory changes that have been or will be implemented within the hospital system. While investigations are ongoing on a number of fronts, I pushed the team to provide the final public results and implement reform within weeks, not months. “Secretary Shulkin is directly engaged in the ongoing investigations and has committed to working closely with my office to address the numerous problems identified by the investigative team. Our shared goal is lasting, long-term, sustainable change at the VARHS—which I maintain should include new leadership. “The VARHS has suffered for years from mismanagement resulting in an inability to recruit and retain high-quality providers, which has seriously hindered patient care. This not the first crisis of management and patient care at VARHS, and previous short-term fixes have only compounded the problem. Oregon’s veterans and VARHS employees deserve lasting, meaningful change.”
01.08.2018	Legislation authored by Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act, was today signed into law by President Trump. The legislation, H.R. 1306, would place 17,519 acres of federal land currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) into trust for the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, and 14,742 acres of federal land into trust for the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians. It would also amend the Coquille Restoration Act to allow the tribe to manage their forest lands in the same way as all other federal tribes. After previously passing the House three times, the Senate passed the legislation for the first time this past December. Rep. DeFazio personally appealed to Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Chairwoman of the Senate Environment and Natural Resources Committee, to push for the bill’s passage in the Senate. “For years, these tribes have been unable to govern themselves as the sovereign nations that they are,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio. “While there is still much work to be done to correct our nation’s injustices towards Native Americans, the passage of the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act is an encouraging move towards progress. This is a tremendous accomplishment for the Cow Creek Tribes, Coquille Tribes, and Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw.”
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement in response to Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ announcement of intent to repeal an Obama-era policy that protects states that have legalized marijuana from federal prosecution: I have long advocated for states’ rights to regulate marijuana use for their citizens without federal intervention. Today’s announcement by AG Sessions is a gross overreach of federal authority that will impair thousands of small businesses across the country while doing absolutely nothing to stem drug deaths in Oregon. Against all logic, marijuana is currently classified at the federal level as a Schedule I drug, the highest possible restriction. These drugs are considered the most dangerous with the highest potential for abuse and no recognized medical benefits. Including marijuana in Schedule I classification means the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) considers it to be just as dangerous as heroin and LSD. This is completely absurd. Furthermore, this announcement is a major blow to thousands of small marijuana-related businesses across the country that are already facing challenges with federal taxation and access to banking services. Meanwhile, Oregon's death rate from opioids has more than quadrupled in the last 10 years. The Oregon Health Authority reported that an average of three Oregonians die per week from prescription opioid overdose. And it’s not just Oregon. The Center for Disease Control estimates that in 2016, over 52,000 Americans died of drug overdose, and tens of thousands more died in 2017. Our Justice Department ought to be focusing its resources on the opioid epidemic, not on attacking law-abiding citizens who are acting in accordance with their states’ own regulations. # # #
12.29.2017	Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Michael Capuano (D-MA) sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao requesting a detailed status update on where the railroads are in fully implementing critical Positive Train Control (PTC) technology and when railroads will meet the PTC implementation deadline. “We believe it is high time that the railroads implement PTC. It has been nearly a decade since passage of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, which required freight, commuter, and intercity passenger railroads to implement PTC by December 31, 2015. That deadline was later extended to December 31, 2018. We understand that PTC is complex but there is no excuse for it taking this long and for some railroads to be lagging so far behind, as indicated in the progress reports submitted to the Federal Railroad Administration,” wrote the Members. According to the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) website, only seven railroads will not meet the 2018 deadline. However, many railroads have failed to progress in equipping locomotives, completing track segments, installing radio towers, training employees, acquiring spectrum, installing back office servers, and submitting safety plans for FRA’s review and approval. While the Rail Safety Improvement Act allowed DOT to extend the PTC deadline for up to 24 months if the railroads meet certain criteria that Congress insisted upon, the extension was intended to be used in limited circumstances. However, a new graphic on the FRA website seems to suggest that the Department of Transportation is tracking railroad efforts to meet the 2020 extension rather than holding them accountable for meeting the 2018 deadline. DeFazio and Capuano will introduce legislation in early January to address the significant funding gap for PTC and to push the railroads to implement PTC. A full copy of the letter is below. December 28, 2017 The Honorable Elaine Chao Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: On December 18, Amtrak Cascades Train 501, operating from Seattle to Portland, derailed south of Tacoma, killing three people and injuring numerous others. According to the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the lead investigator of the accident, the train was traveling approximately 80 miles per hour into a 30 mile-per-hour curve. The circumstances surrounding this accident are eerily similar to the tragic 2015 derailment of an Amtrak Northeast Regional train in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, killing eight people and injuring more than 200 others, 11 critically. Within days of the accident, the NTSB announced that it would not have occurred had Positive Train Control (PTC) been operational on the line. While we do not yet know whether the Tacoma accident was PTC-preventable, it once again demonstrates the need for implementing PTC now. Since 1969, the NTSB has investigated 151 accidents that would not have occurred had PTC been installed. These accidents resulted in 298 fatalities and 6,763 injuries (see attached). PTC has been on the NTSB’s Most Wanted List of safety improvements since its inception in 1990. We believe it is high time that the railroads implement PTC. It has been nearly a decade since passage of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-432) which required freight, commuter, and intercity passenger railroads to implement PTC by December 31, 2015. That deadline was later extended to December 31, 2018. We understand that PTC is complex but there is no excuse for it taking this long and for some railroads to be lagging so far behind, as indicated in the progress reports submitted to the Federal Railroad Administration. According to your website, only seven railroads will not meet the 2018 deadline: Trinity Rail Express in Texas (2019), Canadian National (2020), Central Florida Rail Corridor (2020), CSX (2020), Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (2020), Norfolk Southern (2020), and Metra in Illinois (2020)[1]. We find that hard to believe given the lack of progress by a host of other railroads in equipping locomotives, completing track segments, installing radio towers, training employees, acquiring spectrum, installing back office servers, and submitting safety plans for FRA’s review and approval.[2] For example, Long Island Railroad, Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District, Consolidated Rail Corporation, Maryland Area Regional Commuter “MARC” trains, New Mexico Rail Runner Express, New Jersey Transit, Altamont Corridor Express, South Florida Regional Transportation (Tri-Rail), Capital Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Nashville Regional Transportation Authority are among a host of railroads that are significantly behind, but have projected a 2018 final implementation date in FRA-submitted reports. Although the law allows you to extend the deadline for up to 24 months if the railroads meet certain criteria that we insisted upon, Congress always intended this extension to be used in limited circumstances. Yet a new graphic on your website seems to suggest that the Department of Transportation is tracking railroad efforts to meet the 2020 extension rather than holding them accountable for meeting the 2018 deadline. Given the confusing and seemingly out-of-date information on your website, we request a detailed status update on where the railroads are in fully implementing PTC and when they will finally meet the mandate. We also request a briefing from you and your staff on this issue in the early part of January. In addition, we strongly urge you to include robust funding in any infrastructure or other package the Administration sends to the Hill to help the commuter and intercity passenger railroads implement PTC. In 2016, the American Public Transportation Association estimated that PTC implementation would cost the commuter rail industry more than $3.5 billion, yet only $25 million was requested in the President’s FY2018 Budget for a rail safety and infrastructure program that we created in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, which includes PTC as an eligible project. Congress has also only appropriated $285 million for PTC, although we have long fought for more funding. We urge you to provide additional funding to help meet their needs. In the interim, we plan to introduce legislation in early January to address the significant funding gap and push the railroads to implement PTC. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO MICHAEL CAPUANO Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Transportation and Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Infrastructure Hazardous Materials --30-- [1] https://www.fra.dot.gov/Page/P0628 [2] https://www.fra.dot.gov/app/ptc/
12.22.2017	Legislation authored by Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Greg Walden (OR-02) and U.S. Senators Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., to address western Oregon tribal priorities passed the Senate unanimously last night. The bill now goes to the president to be signed into law. The Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act would place 17,519 acres of federal land currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) into trust for the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, and 14,742 acres of federal land into trust for the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians. It would also amend the Coquille Restoration Act to require the Interior Department to manage the Coquille Indian Tribes’ forest lands in the same way as other tribal forest lands. “While there is still much work to be done to correct our nation’s injustices towards Native Americans, the passage of the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act is an encouraging move towards progress,” DeFazio said. “This legislation will finally grant the Coos, Cow Creek and Coquille Tribes the long-deserved opportunity to manage their own economic development and exercise their own authority over tribal lands.” “The passage of this bill is an important step for these three tribes. The Cow Creek and Coos tribes see a restoration of lands and the Coquille will finally be able to manage their forest lands the same way as other tribes,” Walden said. “This bill ensures these tribes can sustainably manage these lands to benefit the environment and local economy, creating jobs in their communities. I am proud to have worked alongside my colleagues to pass this long-overdue bill out of Congress, and look forward to the President signing it into law.” “While more can and must be done to rectify the injustices that tribes have long faced, passing this bill into law marks an important step forward in recognizing the sovereignty of western Oregon tribes,” Wyden said. “By returning land to both the Coos and Cow Creek tribes, and by putting the management of Coquille’s lands on equal footing with other tribal lands, this bill honors and respects each tribe’s right to be economically self-sufficient and provide jobs and resources for their communities.” “With the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act, we will enable tribes to enhance their self-determination and ability to restore ancestral lands, while creating greater economic opportunity,” Merkley said. “It’s long-overdue, and I am thrilled this bill is heading to the President’s desk to be signed into law.” The Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act passed the House of Representatives in July. The bill passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee unanimously in March.
12.21.2017	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded the U.S. House of Representatives for passage of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA), as part of H.R. 4667, legislation providing supplemental appropriations for disaster relief. The DRRA includes a provision introduced by DeFazio that would clarify that hazard mitigation funds may be used to purchase components of an earthquake early warning system off the Pacific Northwest coast. This critical early warning system could save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. “We have known about the threat posed by the Cascadia Subduction Zone for decades, and yet we have failed to prepare and protect our coastline from a catastrophic earthquake. My legislation is simple—it forces the federal government to get serious and install a critical system that could save thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage. I applaud my colleagues for taking this threat seriously and working with me to prepare and protect our coastal communities. I urge the Senate to pass this common sense bill,” said DeFazio. DeFazio’s provision clarifies that States may use hazard mitigation funds to improve the earthquake early warning system. WILDFIRE The DRRA also includes important wildfire provisions, including expanding eligibility for hazard mitigation assistance to wildfires on state and private lands as well as clarifying eligible hazard mitigation activities related to wildfires. “States should have the flexibility to use disaster mitigation funds from the Federal government to try and prevent the catastrophic wildfires as well as the flooding and mudslides that follow and devastate Western communities. This legislation will allow states to do just that,” said DeFazio. PROTECTING COMMUNITIES IN FLOODPLAINS DRRA also includes a DeFazio provision that will prohibit FEMA from expanding its authority related to floodplain management unless explicitly authorized. This provision will help clarify that FEMA cannot regulate land use, or prescribe a community’s regulations of its own land use in flood-prone areas. Without this language, Oregon would be subject to restrictive federal regulations that could severely impact or prohibit economic development across the state of Oregon due to purported impacts on threatened species. These new regulations will go far beyond preventing new construction in pristine and undeveloped areas to protect endangered species habitat. In fact, the regulations will supersede Oregon’s strong land-use protections by prohibiting development in already developed areas and they will encourage urban sprawl.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. Peter DeFazio released the following statement about H.R. 1, the Republican tax plan: “Republicans promised their overhaul of the tax code would help working Americans and grow our economy. That is not the reality of their tax bill, which was written behind closed doors on a totally partisan basis. The tax breaks in this plan will skyrocket our national debt and only give a pittance to the middle class. 83 percent of the benefits go to Americans making over $400,000, while over half of America’s middle class will see a tax increase. “The plan contains unprecedented tax cuts for the wealthy, including reducing the rate on income over half a million dollars and doubling the estate tax exemption. It also cuts taxes for large corporations and wealthy passive real estate and other investors, once again highlighting a dubious claim that cutting corporate taxes benefits workers in the form of more jobs and increased wages. In reality, previous corporate cuts have only led to stock buyback, dividends, and executive bonuses. “And how are these handouts to the wealthy paid for? Outrageous hits to the middle class. This plan targets states that voted blue by capping state and local income tax deductibility, hiking taxes on Oregonians by forcing them to pay taxes twice on their income. While the few provisions that benefit the middle class expire, the corporate cuts and estate tax elimination are permanent. “Even with hits to middle income families, the price tag on the Republican plan is at least $1.5 trillion. Our national debt has ballooned to nearly twenty trillion dollars, and raising our national debt further will create an increase in interest rates and further hurt working Americans that have to borrow for mortgages, cars, and education. Even worse, the majority has already begun discussing going after Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid to pay for the additional debt. PAYGO requires legislative changes that increase the deficit to be offset by spending cuts. These would include hundreds of billions in cuts to Medicare, doubling the fees charged for student loans, and cuts to social services, transportation programs, and assistance for workers displaced by NAFTA and other failed trade agreements. Cutting taxes for the wealthy at the expense of these programs is incomprehensible. “I am appalled Republican leadership would push such a cruel piece of legislation, continuing to focus on winning cheap political points and keeping wealthy donors at the expense of the middle class. While the GOP pops champagne to celebrate the passage of their flawed tax plan, I will be doing everything in my power to protect Americans from tax hikes and cuts to critical programs.” ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement about the Amtrak derailment that occurred earlier today: “My thoughts are with the loved ones of the victims and all those injured in the terrible Amtrak train crash in Washington this morning. We don’t yet know the cause of the horrific derailment which took the lives of multiple people, and we need to let the NTSB conduct a thorough investigation into the cause of the accident. As Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure I will continue to monitor the situation, and work together with my colleagues to enact any changes necessary to prevent this type of accident in the future once we have more information about the cause.” ###
12.15.2017	Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) announced that the Coquille Indian Tribe of Southwest Oregon will receive a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grant of $200,000 through the Tribal Transit Program to expand their transportation services. “This is welcomed news for Coos County. This funding will be critical in expanding the Coquille Tribe's current transportation system, and providing increased opportunities for tribal members to access jobs, school, and health appointments. Currently, the Coquille Tribe provides demand services for health related appointments, but lacks a consistent and reliable transportation option. Public transportation in Coos County is provided through Coos County Area Transit, which provides two loop services through Coos Bay and North Bend, Monday-Friday. This grant will add an additional route to CCAT, benefitting not only members of the Coquille Tribe but the community at large. Public transit serves a vital function in rural communities by connecting individuals with more opportunities. I will continue to work to improve public transportation throughout southwest Oregon,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio. As Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. DeFazio was instrumental in providing funding for the Tribal Transit Program in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST) of 2015. The Coquille tribe’s project is one of 36 transit projects in 19 states to receive funding through FTA’s Tribal Transit Program this year.
12.12.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on the upcoming net neutrality rollback vote coming before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC): “I have called on FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to protect net neutrality. We must ensure that the internet remains a free and open space for everyone—not just big corporations.” # # #
12.07.2017	Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) today applauded the U.S. International Trade Commission’s (ITC) final 4-0 vote confirming that the U.S. softwood lumber industry is materially injured by unfairly subsidized Canadian imports. “Today’s announcement by the ITC is a clear sign that the U.S. is committed to protecting our timber jobs on the international stage,” said Reps. DeFazio and Herrera Beutler. “The U.S. has repeatedly tried to settle this issue with Canada at the negotiating table, but once Canada refused to meet our reasonable demands, this was the only path available to protect U.S. interests. We’re grateful to the Department of Commerce for their thorough investigation into this matter and the ITC’s subsequent affirmative ruling, and will continue to work together to protect manufacturing jobs in the Pacific Northwest and throughout the United States.” Because of the difference in timber pricing and market structures between the two nations—most of the United States’ timberlands are privately owned, while the majority of Canadian timberlands are owned by the provincial government —the two nations have a long-standing series of trade agreements, or Softwood Lumber Agreements (SLA) between them. The United States and Canada have been trying to negotiate a new Softwood Lumber Agreement, but those talks fell through last month. Today’s ruling will activate final antidumping and countervailing duties on Canadian softwood lumber imports as determined by the Department of Commerce earlier this year. The application of these duties will provide much-needed relief to Oregon and Washington mills. In November, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced its final determination that the Canadian government subsidizes lumber production and that exporters from Canada have sold softwood lumber to the U.S. at less than fair value, distorting the U.S. softwood lumber market and harming U.S. manufacturing jobs. In September, Rep. DeFazio submitted testimony to a hearing held by the ITC calling for a ruling against unfair softwood lumber trade practices employed by the Canadian lumber industry. To view a PDF version of the testimony, click here. Oregon is the largest producer of softwood lumber in the United States.
12.06.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio last week sent a letter to U.S. Forest Service (USFS) Chief Tony Tooke pressing the agency on specifics regarding their aerial firefighting resources and procedures. “Oregon and other Western states endured some of the worst wildfires in decades this year, yet because of the department’s own missteps, they did not have all tools available at their disposal to fight the blazes—that’s ludicrous,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “To be anything less than prepared for next year’s fire season is unacceptable, and I will continue to fight so that the forest service has the funding they need to acquire the tools they need to effectively fight wildfires next season.” The 2017 fire season was one of the worst in decades, destroying hundreds of thousands of acres in Oregon alone. Prior to the 2017 fire season, the USFS solicited requests for proposals (RFPs) for air tankers to combat forest fires. However, their proposal excluded tankers that exceeded five thousand gallons of flame retardant. Because of the limitation, Global SuperTanker, which owns a 747 with retardant capacity of over 19,000 gallons, was unable to compete. Global SuperTanker protested the RFP to the Government Accountability Office, stating the retardant capacity restriction was unduly restrictive. The GAO upheld Global SuperTanker’s protest, agreeing that there was no reasonable basis for the USFS to limit retardant capacity. Rep. DeFazio has repeatedly pressed the USFS to determine why they did not solicit a high-capacity aerial firefighting plane to combat this summer’s blazes. His letter to Chief Tooke also pushes the agency to describe their plans to ensure they will have adequate fire suppression tools in the future. To read a PDF version of Rep. DeFazio’s letter to the USFS, click here.
12.01.2017	Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Greg Walden (OR-02) today applauded the U.S. International Trade Commission’s (ITC) final 4-0 vote confirming that the U.S. hardwood plywood industry has been, or is threatened to be, materially injured by unfairly subsidized Chinese imports. Today’s ruling will activate final antidumping and countervailing duties on Chinese hardwood plywood imports as determined by the Department of Commerce earlier this year. The application of these duties will provide much-needed relief to Oregon mills. “For too long, hardwood plywood mills in Oregon have suffered from the unfair trade practices China has used to corner this vital market and threaten family-wage jobs in our state,” said Reps. DeFazio and Walden. “Today’s announcement by the ITC is welcome news that will protect U.S. timber jobs and sends the clear signal that using illegal trade practices to hurt American companies, cost American jobs, and harm our timber-dependent communities is unacceptable. We applaud the thorough investigation conducted by the Department of Commerce into this matter and the ITC’s subsequent affirmative ruling, and will continue to work together to protect manufacturing jobs in Oregon and throughout the United States.” “Our company, as members of the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood, is pleased with the results of this ruling,” said Joe Gonyea, III, Co-Chair of the Board for Timber Products. “This strong ruling publicly reinforces what we have known for years about unfair Chinese subsidies and dumping of inferior products into the U.S. Market. We are greatly appreciative of the bipartisan support from our Oregon congressional delegation, led in the House of Representatives by Greg Walden and Peter DeFazio, throughout this effort.” Last year the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood, representing the U.S. hardwood plywood industry, filed a petition with the U.S. government seeking full enforcement of U.S. trade laws against China’s abusive trade practices. Last month, the Department of Commerce issued final determinations on antidumping duties of 183.6 percent and countervailing duties of up to 194.9 percent after completing an extensive investigation into China's unfairly traded hardwood plywood imports. Today’s ruling by the ITC will allow these duties to be fully enforced. In October, Reps. DeFazio and Walden led a bipartisan letter to the ITC in support of an investigation into China’s illegal trade activity. Additionally, on October 26 Reps. DeFazio and Walden both testified before the ITC at their hearing on illegal Chinese hardwood plywood imports. Rep DeFazio’s testimony can viewed here. Rep. Walden’s testimony can be viewed here. Chinese hardwood plywood imports increased 22 percent from 2014 to 2016 and another 26 percent during only the first half of 2017. Oregon is the largest producer of hardwood plywood products in the United States. # # #
12.01.2017	Today, members of the Oregon Congressional Delegation sent a letter to the Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Ryan Fisher urging the Trump Administration to fund critical maintenance and dredging of Oregon’s small ports and jetties. Representatives Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader and Suzanne Bonamici, along with Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, urged the Administration to make these investments to keep our ports open and safe, and to ensure Oregon’s coastal communities are able to thrive. “We encourage you to fund the critical navigation needs of Oregon’s small coastal ports. Our harbors along the Oregon coast serve as some of the most vital harbors of refuge in the nation. With our breaking bars, the increasing intensity of storms and unpredictable weather, it is extremely important that our channels be dredged and our jetties maintained to adequately serve the safety of our commercial and recreational fishing fleets, as well as allow for the Search and Rescue activities of our U.S. Coast Guard men and women,” the members wrote. A 2014 State of Oregon study shows that our coastal ports support 15,759 direct/indirect jobs and $904 million to the state GDP. In addition, NOAA’s 2015 Fisheries of the U.S. report ranked the State of Oregon seventh in the nation for 2015 domestic fish landings, with 195 million pounds valued at $115.7 million. A copy of the letter is included below. December 1, 2017 Mr. Ryan Fisher Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310 Dear Mr. Fisher: As you look ahead to the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY2018) work plan for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Civil Works program, we encourage you to fund the critical navigation needs of Oregon’s small coastal ports. Our harbors along the Oregon coast serve as some of the most vital harbors of refuge in the nation. With our breaking bars, the increasing intensity of storms and unpredictable weather, it is extremely important that our channels be dredged and our jetties maintained to adequately serve the safety of our commercial and recreational fishing fleets, as well as allow for the Search and Rescue activities of our U.S. Coast Guard men and women. Oregon’s coastal navigation infrastructure also supports rural communities in our state. A 2014 State of Oregon study shows that our coastal ports support 15,759 direct/indirect jobs and $904 million to the state GDP[i]. In addition, NOAA’s 2015 Fisheries of the U.S. report ranked the State of Oregon seventh in the nation for 2015 domestic fish landings, with 195 million pounds valued at $115.7 million[ii]. Funding for the maintenance of federal navigation infrastructure along the Oregon coast is essential to the success of our fishing fleets and to maintaining a vibrant coastal and national economy. While the current appropriations process for FY2018 remains incomplete, we believe that based on the process in previous years, there will continue to be significant programmatic funding included for both “small, remote and subsistence harbors” and “deep draft harbors.” Oregon’s emerging harbors can all compete for funding from one or both of these programmatic accounts and we request that you strongly consider the following for inclusion in your FY2018 work plan: Project Name Additional FY2018 Capability Total FY2018 Request Skipanon Channel (Port of Astoria) $123,000 $123,000 Siuslaw River (Port of Siuslaw) $837,000 $837,000 Umpqua River (Port of Umpqua) $405,000 $1,326,000 Coquille River (Port of Bandon) $453,000 $453,000 Rogue River (Port of Gold Beach) $809,000 $809,000 Chetco River (Port of Brookings Harbor) $1,029,000 $1,838,000 Tillamook Bay & Harbor (Port of Garibaldi) $575,000 $575,000 Port of Port Orford (includes $4,950,000 for breakwater repair) $6,593,000 $6,593,000 Yaquina Bay & Harbor (Port of Newport) $0 $3,096,000 Yaquina River (Port of Toledo) $0 $0 Depoe Bay $877,000 $877,000 The international trade, recreational boating and commercial fishing taking place out of Oregon ports continues to be a vital asset for our coastal communities, our region and the entire nation. We thank you for your continued consideration of these projects for the FY2018 work plan. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ PETER DeFAZIO RON WYDEN Member of Congress United States Senator _____________________________ _____________________________ JEFF MERKLEY EARL BLUMENAUER United States Senator Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ KURT SCHRADER SUZANNE BONAMICI Member of Congress Member of Congress [i] Business Oregon Infrastructure Finance Authority, Economic Benefits of Oregon Public Ports (May 2014). [ii] https://www.st.nmfs.noaa.gov/Assets/commercial/fus/fus15/documents/FUS2015.pdf
11.30.2017	Today, the United States House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation to renew a critical program that spurs economic growth and job creation in Oregon communities. Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), an original cosponsor of companion legislation, applauded House passage of H.R. 3017, the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act of 2017, which will boost funding for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) brownfields program. The brownfields program provides funding to States and communities for the cleanup and redevelopment of abandoned or underutilized properties and leverages Federal seed money with State, local, and private dollars to create jobs. “Congress has heard from mayors, state agencies, and other stakeholders on the critical importance of the brownfields program. The brownfields program has a proven record of success and you can see this success right here at home. In 2013, the City of Eugene received $680,000 in grants to clean up abandoned properties and today, the Ninkasi Brewing Company sits on the site of what was a former Eugene brownfield. This year, Eugene was selected for an additional $500,000 brownfields site assessment grant and I am hopeful that this funding can replicate the success of Ninkasi and prompt the redevelopment and cleanup of other brownfield sites,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), the Ranking Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and an original cosponsor of companion legislation. “I was proud to work on this bipartisan legislation and I will continue to work with my colleagues to see this critical bill signed into law.” See video of DeFazio speaking about the Eugene brownfields here. H.R. 3017 makes several improvements to the brownfields program including increasing the funding limit for individual cleanup grants from $200,000 to $500,000 per grant, authorizing EPA to award multipurpose brownfield grants for projects consisting of multiple elements, and making non-profit entities eligible for remediation and assessment grants under the program. It will also allow local governments to apply for site assessment grants for properties acquired prior to the creation of the brownfields program. BACKGROUND Brownfields are defined as “real property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant.” Brownfields are, by definition, not contaminated to a level that would define them as potential Superfund sites. However, because of the presence or potential presence of hazardous substances on these sites, potentially responsible parties associated with brownfields sites may be liable for cleanup of the properties. In an effort to promote the cleanup of brownfields, Congress created EPA’s brownfields program through the 2002 enactment of the Brownfields Revitalization and Environmental Restoration Act. The Brownfields Act contained two distinct pieces: (1) the creation of Federally-funded grant programs, managed by EPA, for the assessment and cleanup of brownfields properties, as well as for establishing and maintaining State-run brownfields programs; and (2) several amendments to the Superfund law that allowed certain (statutorily-defined) parties to redevelop brownfields sites without the fear of potential cleanup liability.
11.17.2017	Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Peter King (NY-02) today led a bipartisan group of two dozen Members in sending a letter to U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer supporting U.S. negotiators’ proposed solution to long-standing highway safety issues in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Currently, Mexican trucking companies that obtain authority from the U.S. Department of Transportation are permitted to operate long-haul in the United States beyond the zones at the U.S.–Mexico border. The rules for hours of service, commercial drivers licensing, and drug and alcohol testing in Mexico are not the same as U.S. standards, making it more difficult to disqualify unsafe drivers and to ensure they are not fatigued when they cross the border. As the United States renegotiates NAFTA, Reps. DeFazio and King and their colleagues from both sides of the aisle have encouraged U.S. negotiators to prioritize the safety of Americans traveling our nation’s highways and the long-haul truckers with whom they share the road. During the fourth round of talks, U.S. negotiators proposed a solution which anticipates a role for Congress to craft new statutory and regulatory standards that will protect everyone traveling on U.S. interstate highways. This long-standing issue comes down to one thing: protecting Americans’ safety on our highways. Lawmakers commend USTR’s efforts to find a solution and encourage them to stand firm against inevitable resistance to necessary change. In the letter, the members wrote, “…we stand ready, in the spirit of “fair trade” bipartisanship, to work with your office and the Department of Transportation to meet the challenge of a modernized NAFTA. We commit to working together on a new and comprehensive legislative approach that will safeguard families on our interstate highways as well as the American long-haul operators who make their living transporting cargo and containers beyond the border commercial zones and into the American heartland.” To see a PDF version of the letter, click here.
11.13.2017	Today, the Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced that the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded $2.6 million in emergency relief grants to rebuild and repair roads in Oregon impacted or destroyed by natural disasters, severe winter storms, and flooding. The grants come two weeks after DeFazio sent a letter to DOT Secretary Elaine Chao urging her to distribute funding and reduce the backlog under the Federal-aid Highway Emergency Relief (ER) program. “Two weeks ago, I urged the Secretary of Transportation to immediately sign critical Emergency Relief grants that have been inexplicably stuck in the DOT bureaucracy for months. These non-controversial grants will help States and Federal land management agencies rebuild roads impacted by severe storms, flooding, and wildfires. I am happy to announce that these grants have finally been signed, and that over $2.6 million will flow to fix roads in Oregon destroyed by past natural disasters. Despite this release of funding, there is still a massive backlog in Federal-aid highway repair and recovery needs from past disasters, and I will continue to push Congress and the Administration to address it,” said DeFazio. The Oregon Department of Transportation will receive $750,000 and Federal land management agencies will receive $1.87 million to repair and reconstruct roads in Oregon impacted by past natural disasters. The letter DeFazio sent can be found here.
11.09.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced that investigators from the VA Office of the Medical Inspector will be returning to the Roseburg and Eugene VA facilities next week. The investigators will be interviewing dozens of VA staff regarding a number of issues, including mismanagement of personnel, alleged threats to patient safety, and the standard of medical care at both facilities. The investigators previously visited the Roseburg and Eugene facilities in October. Staff will be interviewed by the investigators confidentially. The list of staff who request to be interviewed by the VA will not be shared with the management at the Roseburg VA, and interviews will be conducted in a private setting removed from hospital management. Employees who are also union members are encouraged to invite their union representatives to attend the interviews as well. For those who are still concerned about potential retaliation in response to speaking with the investigators, Rep. DeFazio’s office can facilitate confidential conversations. Rep. DeFazio pushed for the investigation into poor practices at the VA after numerous constituents came forward with allegations of mismanagement and retaliation against employees, as well as patient safety issues.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON—Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Greg Walden (OR-02), Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) today released the following statement in response to the announcement by the U.S. Department of Commerce of final antidumping and countervailing duties on softwood lumber imports from Canada: “The duties announced today by the Commerce Department will provide much-needed relief for the U.S. softwood lumber industry. Since the expiration of the last Softwood Lumber Trade Agreement in 2015, Canada’s share of the U.S. softwood lumber industry has crept up to one-third of the market, devastating U.S. producers. These new antidumping and countervailing duties will help to prevent Canadian producers from unfairly dumping artificially cheap products into our markets and will help level the playing field for U.S. producers competing against Canada’s government-subsidized timber.” “Although the U.S. repeatedly came to the negotiating table with reasonable offers, the Canadians rejected our proposals, leaving our Commerce Department no choice but to move forward with imposing duties on Canadian softwood imports. Thanks to these new duties, the U.S. lumber industry will finally have room to grow to its full potential without the stifling constraints of unfairly-traded Canadian lumber.” Since the expiration of the most-recent Softwood Lumber Agreement, negotiations between the U.S. and Canada to regulate softwood trade have been unsuccessful, leaving the U.S. market unprotected against the increasing flood of illegally subsidized Canadian imports. After no new agreement was reached by late 2016, representatives from the U.S. timber industry had no choice but to petition the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to file antidumping and countervailing duties against Canadian lumber producers. Under long-standing U.S. trade law, U.S. industries have a right to offsetting duties against illegally subsidized and dumped imports which threaten to put domestic producers out of business. The U.S. Department of Commerce earlier this year investigated the softwood lumber market and found that the Canadian government heavily subsidizes their softwood lumber production, artificially lowering production costs for Canadian mills and ultimately allowing them to dump softwood lumber products into the U.S. at below fair-value prices, putting at-risk the 350,000 jobs directly and indirectly associated with the U.S. sawmill and wood preservation industry. The remedy announced today will help counteract Canada’s unfair trade practices by enforcing antidumping and countervailing duties of between 9.92 and 23.76 percent on Canadian softwood imports.
11.01.2017	A bipartisan amendment to the Resilient Federal Forests Act offered today by Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) was unanimously approved by the House. The amendment ensures western Oregon lands designated as Wild & Scenic, Wilderness, or as part of the National Trail System continue to be protected from timber production. It also protects the iconic Yaquina Head Outstanding Natural Area on the Oregon coast. The amendment was cosponsored by Representatives Kurt Schrader (OR-05) and Greg Walden (OR-02). Before the inclusion of the DeFazio amendment, the bill required all Bureau of Land Management (BLM)-managed public lands in western Oregon to be managed under the Oregon and California Lands Act of 1937, also known as the O&C Act, which allows for increased timber harvest. Rep. DeFazio’s amendment ensures lands designated as Wild & Scenic, Wilderness, or part of the National Trail System, as well as the Yaquina Head Outstanding Natural Area, remain protected from timber harvest. “Oregon is home to some of the nation’s most valuable natural treasures,” said Rep. DeFazio. “My amendment will help to protect unique lands such as the Wild and Scenic Rogue River and the Kalmiopsis Wilderness and preserve the sites for future generations to enjoy. It must be Congress’s top priority to find a commonsense approach to forest management that will balance sustainable timber yields with protecting our wild and beautiful natural areas.” Rep. DeFazio has fought to find commonsense solutions to Oregon’s forest management problems for his entire career. Although his amendment passed the House, he ultimately voted against the legislation, describing the bill as a missed opportunity due to its partisan approach—previous forest management bills with more balanced policies failed in the Senate and this bill is doomed to the same fate. Specifically DeFazio was opposed to provisions that prevent plaintiffs from accessing the courts through binding arbitration, limit public input, and double the number of acres exempt from environmental review. Last Congress, DeFazio was one of 19 Democrats to vote for more balanced legislation to make needed changes in forest management and fix “fire borrowing.” But the Senate never acted on it, or on any other forest management bill. In the 113th Congress, Rep. DeFazio worked with bipartisan members of the Oregon delegation to craft a bipartisan bill that would create a long-term solution to properly manage statutorily unique forest lands in Oregon. Although the bill passed the House of Representatives in September of 2014, the Senate failed to act on the legislation. To watch Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech in support of his amendment, click here. To watch Rep. DeFazio’s speech on the Resilient Federal Forests Act, click here.
10.31.2017	Today, the Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao urging immediate action to address the backlog under the Federal-aid Highway Emergency Relief (ER) program. Currently, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has $911 million in available ER funds that are sitting unused. Across the nation, there are $1.76 billion in federal-aid highway repair and recovery needs from past disasters. Of the current $1.76 billion backlog, $10.25 million is attributed to Oregon’s past disaster needs. These amounts, based on August 2017 data, do not include this fall’s influx of devastating disasters. As affected communities begin to identify the extent of damages caused by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, as well as the raging wildfires in Oregon and other western states, the need for ER funding is going to dramatically increase. Ranking Member DeFazio is urging Congress to provide additional funding for the ER program, but DOT must demonstrate its ability to efficiently distribute funding to reduce the backlog of requests. “I urge you to do everything in your power to help communities struggling to recover from disasters by demonstrating that, if Congress appropriates additional funds, the Department is ready to be a conduit—not an impediment—to provide critical ER funds to these communities,” said DeFazio. The full letter can be found here.
10.26.2017	In testimony before the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Greg Walden (OR-02) today defended Oregon timber jobs against the dumping of cheap Chinese hardwood plywood products. The lawmakers were there to support the investigation of unfairly traded Chinese hardwood plywood imports, an action which began as a result of a petition filed by U.S. hardwood plywood producers. Oregon is largest producer of hardwood plywood products in the country. China continually uses illegal subsidies to dump artificially cheap Chinese hardwood plywood in American markets, undercutting the U.S. hardwood industry and costing thousands of American jobs. In its preliminary determination, the ITC unanimously found a reasonable indication that China’s practices have done material injury to the American industry, meaning job loss and mill closures. Today’s hearing will help inform the ITC’s final determination and potential tariffs against China’s illegal trade activity. “The flood of artificially cheap lumber from China has washed out Southwest Oregon’s lumber industries and jobs, creating communities that are ghosts of their former selves,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “We can no longer allow China to manipulate our markets for their own gain. The ITC must take swift action to hold China accountable for their unfair trade practices that hurt American companies and harm American communities.” “Currently, Oregon is the headquarters for four hardwood plywood manufacturers. We have eight operating mills that provide 2,400 good, family wage jobs,” said Rep. Greg Walden in his testimony. “In August I visited one of these mills in my district, and have visited others in the past. The story is the same no matter where I go. The Oregonians who work in these facilities are hardworking Americans who take pride in the work they do and the products they produce. Unfortunately, it appears their Chinese competition may be cheating with its exports and has overtaken 54 percent of this valuable U.S. market. That’s not right, and it’s not fair.” Earlier this week, Reps. DeFazio and Walden led a bipartisan letter to the ITC in support of the investigation. To see a PDF version of Rep. DeFazio’s testimony, click here. To see a PDF version of Rep. Walden’s testimony, click here.
10.12.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), along with Reps. Greg Walden (OR-02), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) today applauded the inclusion of emergency funding for wildland fire suppression in the supplemental appropriations bill just passed by the House of Representatives. The lawmakers have repeatedly urged House leaders to include funding for the US Forest Service (USFS) in the wake of massive fires that have burned nearly 700,000 acres across Oregon. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue has announced that Fiscal Year 2017 has been the most expensive firefighting year on record. “I’m happy to see Congress acknowledge the pressing need for additional funding for wildfire suppression in one of the worst fire seasons in decades,” said Rep. DeFazio. “We must take steps to ensure the USFS and Department of Interior have the funding they need, such as considering wildfires to be natural disasters like hurricanes and tornadoes. Without such steps, the destructive cycle of fire-borrowing will only continue.” “I am proud to have worked with the administration and my colleagues in the Oregon delegation to secure this much-needed funding to cover the cost of devastating wildfires across our state and much of the West,” said Rep. Walden. As another fire season raged on, once again, the Forest Service needed to rob money from important fire prevention work to pay for fighting wildfires. This bill replenishes those accounts to pay for the cost of this fire season, but it is past time that we fix how we pay for fires and treat them like the natural disasters they are. It’s also past time for Congress to fix federal forest policy and address the underlying issues leading to catastrophic fires that choke our skies and communities with smoke each summer.” “Spurred by climate change, we’ve witnessed millions of acres in the West exploding in out-of-control wildfires—touching Oregon’s own beloved Columbia Gorge,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The House took a step in the right direction by approving much-needed funding to help those communities affected. More must be done, however, to end fire-borrowing and make sure agencies have the resources they need.” “The wildfires this season have been devastating to Oregon. They have destroyed large portions of forestland, reduced air quality across the state, and left a lasting mark on many communities,” said Congresswoman Bonamici. “I thank all of the firefighters and first responders who worked endless hours to keep Oregonians safe. I’m pleased that Congress is working together to increase funding for fighting fires, and hope we can finally put an end to the practice of fire-borrowing.” “Fixing the way we pay for wildfire suppression and prevention has been one of my legislative priorities since coming into federal office over eight years ago,” said Congressman Schrader. “For the past three Congresses, I’ve introduced a bipartisan bill to put an end to the practice of fire-borrowing. I am very pleased that this disaster is receiving needed funding, and is being treated with the seriousness it deserves. We have a long way to go in the work to curb wildfires and the devastation they inflict, but securing this funding is an encouraging step forward.”
10.12.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today blasted the continuing leadership failures within the Veterans Administration (VA) and specifically called on officials to change the management system at the VA Roseburg Health Care System (VARHS). Rep. DeFazio called for the changes while speaking in support of the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act, legislation that would impose stringent penalties on those who retaliate against whistleblowers and provide greater protections for whistleblowers. The Senate-approved legislation unanimously passed the House today and will now go to the President to be signed into law. Rep. DeFazio has received dozens of complaints from concerned constituents, many of whom are experienced medical professionals, about the lack of effective and accountable management at the VARHS. “For years I have received numerous complaints about the substandard management throughout the VARHS, and yet nothing has changed despite repeated outreach to every level of leadership at the Department of Veterans Affairs, including a direct appeal to the Secretary last week,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Poor management has resulted in degraded patient care and difficulty in recruiting and retaining talented medical professionals to help Oregon’s veterans. It’s outrageous that in addition to delays and government bureaucracy veteran care is being hampered by management issues. Doctors, nurses, and other VA employees are putting their careers on the line to improve the system, risking potential retaliation from the same inadequate leadership. The status quo is entirely unacceptable, and it is time for the VA to stop passing the buck and take immediate action. Our veterans deserve better.” In 2014, the VA surpassed the Department of Defense (DoD) for the total number of whistleblower complaints filed with the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) even though the DoD has almost double the number of civilian employees as the VA. In 2015, the Office of Special Counsel found that 35 percent of all whistleblower complaints were filed by VA employees. To watch Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech, click here.
10.06.2017	Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today announced that the Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded over $250,000 to the State of Oregon to develop or revise emergency plans and invest in emergency response training to deal with accidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials. The grant can also be used to investigate how much and how frequently hazardous materials are being transported through Oregon cities. “I have worked for years to increase safety standards for the transport of hazardous materials, but along with that we must ensure States are prepared in the event of an accident,” said Rep. DeFazio. “These funds from DOT will provide resources to help Oregon develop comprehensive safety plans and train emergency responders to be better equipped and prepared to respond to accidents.” "Oregonians well know the potential dangers posed by oil-by-rail transportation," said Senator Wyden. "Part of protecting our communities means ensuring our first responders are well trained and well prepared to deal with the aftermath of a train derailment like we saw in Mosier. That's why I included funding in my Hazardous Materials Rail Transportation Safety Act of 2015 for advanced training for first responders, and why I'm glad this funding has come through." “Oil trains are rolling explosive hazards, and it’s absolutely critical that our communities have the resources and plans in place to respond to potential emergencies,” said Senator Merkley. “Today’s grant will provide a huge boost to Oregon communities that are working hard to address and manage this public safety threat.” The Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness (HMEP) grant, totaling $252,088, will help Oregon design and implement planning and training programs for hazardous material disasters based on the state’s individual needs. This funding, part of a larger grant awarded to states, territories, and Native American tribes to enhance their ability to respond to hazardous materials transportation incidents, was authorized in the “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which was signed into law in 2015. As the Ranking Member on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. DeFazio was a key negotiator of the FAST Act and secured critical safety provisions, including language to reauthorize the HMEP grant program. In April 2017, DeFazio joined his Oregon House colleagues to introduce the bipartisan Community Protection and Preparedness Act (H.R.2223), legislation that creates a new trust fund to help communities prepare for accidents involving rail cars transporting flammable liquids, including crude oil and ethanol. The Hazardous Materials Rail Transportation Safety Improvement Act of 2015, introduced by Sens. Wyden and Merkley, would establish a dedicated fund for advanced training for first responders. The full DOT grant announcement can be found here.
09.28.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today announced that the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) has received two Surface Transportation System Funding Alternatives (STSFA) grants providing $4.9 million from the Department of Transportation (DOT). DeFazio helped create this grant program in the “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act)”, which passed Congress in 2015. The grants were created to enable states to test and experiment with innovative ways to fund needed infrastructure improvements, including VMT mechanisms. “From the bottle bill to vote by mail, Oregon has always led the country when it comes to finding innovative, creative solutions to complex issues facing our state,” said Rep. DeFazio. “With these grants, ODOT will have the resources it needs to address one of the biggest challenges we face as a nation—finding a sustainable, long-term solution to fully fund our massive transportation infrastructure needs. I am proud to have spearheaded the FAST Act, which created these grants, and I am proud that once again, Oregon is leading the way to meet this challenge.” BACKGROUND Oregon is the first state to operate a road usage charge (RUC) program where people pay for their use of the road by the mile rather than by the gallon of fuel. The first grant will extend the benefits of RUC technology to local municipalities where it can enable a local RUC to combat lack of local transportation funding. The grant will fund a one year-long pilot in the Portland area to test three different approaches to a local road usage charge. The second grant will create and operate a road usage charge (RUC) pilot between California and Oregon, who both have ongoing pilots in their respective states. The goal is to get these two systems to “talk” and expand the RUC concept to a regional level. These pilots, like the OREGO state program, will continue to be voluntary.
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON—Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today released the following statement in response to House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop’s request to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to review all mineral withdrawals ordered by the Obama administration, including the withdrawal on the Smith River and the headwaters of Hunter Creek and Pistol River. “This is an egregious overstep by Washington, driven by special interests,” said Rep. DeFazio. “The prohibition on mining on the Smith River and the headwaters of Hunter Creek and Pistol River has broad, overwhelming support from thousands of residents of southwest Oregon, local governments, businesses and community leaders. Re-opening this area to allow a foreign company to strip mine our public lands without paying American taxpayers hardly any royalties would devastate surrounding economies and threaten critical drinking water sources. This withdrawal has been discussed, debated and endorsed by the surrounding communities and supported by federal agencies. Chairman Bishop and the Trump administration need to respect the will of southwest Oregon.” Rep. DeFazio has repeatedly introduced the Southwestern Oregon Watershed and Salmon Protection Act to protect this vital community resource. He has called on Chairman Bishop multiple times to hold a hearing on the matter, but Chairman Bishop has refused requests to take up the bill in his committee. For Chairman Bishop’s letter to Secretaries Zinke and Perdue, click here. For Rep. DeFazio’s request for a hearing on the Southwestern Oregon Watershed and Salmon Protection Act, click here. # # #
09.18.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), along with Reps. Greg Walden (OR-02), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) today sent a second letter to House leaders and the House Appropriations Committee requesting that emergency funding for wildland fire suppression be included in any emergency supplemental appropriations bill considered in the House for the rest of the year. The USFS has already run through their fire suppression funds and have transferred $300 million from other non-suppression accounts to help fight the blazes. They are expected to borrow another $300 million this week. The lawmakers previously requested emergency funding for Oregon’s wildfires be included in the Hurricane Harvey spending bill. A provision was included to allow the USFS to tap into funds in the new fiscal year which begins October 1, to replenish money borrowed from other accounts. The Members have also called for improved forest management practices, including policies that would put an end to the dangerous cycle of so-called ‘fire-borrowing’. Currently, Oregon’s Chetco Bar fire has consumed more than 187,000 acres. Making matters worse, there are 26 other Oregon fires which have burned over 678,487 acres to date. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue has announced that wildfire suppression costs for Fiscal Year 2017 have exceeded $2 billion, making 2017 the most expensive firefighting year on record. The lawmakers write, “To fund vital ongoing fire suppression activities, the agency is now being forced to borrow from other USFS accounts. Often the accounts that are depleted fund the very activities that help reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires, creating a vicious cycle... Given the immediate need for additional wildfire suppression resources, we urge you to include emergency funding for the USFS should another emergency supplemental appropriations bill come to the floor.” To view a PDF version of the letter, click here. ###
09.16.2017	U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced a $1 million Emergency Relief grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to the State of Oregon for the repair of federal highways and roads on federal lands that have been damaged by wildfire. The funds are available immediately. "These funds come at a critical time," said DeFazio. "Wildfires have decimated over 600,000 acres of land in Oregon, including roads and highways, impeding commerce and Oregonians' ability to move around the state. This federal assistance will help Oregon Department of Transportation begin to repair the damage." ###
09.14.2017	U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden and U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio today asked federal officials what’s being done to deploy more unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to fight wildfires raging throughout Oregon and the West. As Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. DeFazio last year authored legislation that directed the Federal Aviation Administration, Department of the Interior, and Department of Agriculture to expedite the safe use of UAS to support firefighting operations. The legislation was passed into law as part of the FAA Extension Act of 2016. The letter from the two Oregon lawmakers seeking answers about using UAS as a firefighting tool comes in the wake of their meetings last weekend in Oregon with emergency responders battling wildfires around the state. Wildfires so far this year have ripped through more than 7.65 million acres in Oregon and the west. One-third of the 1.5 million acres now burning in the west are in Oregon. “These tragic yet foreseeable events make it necessary to explore all ways to better fight wildfires,” Wyden and DeFazio wrote in their letter to Michael Huerta, Administrator for the Federal Aviation Administration, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Forest Service Chief Tony Tooke. “Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) have the potential to help this effort significantly.” Wyden and DeFazio noted that UAS have proven able to assess in real time the seriousness of wildfire damage, gather essential information for firefighters and first responders, and improve safety by identifying additional hazards as well as any infrastructure, property or wildlife in the path of a fast-moving fire. Wyden and DeFazio asked the federal officials how their agencies are implementing the law aimed at improving the use of safe UAS operations in support of firefighting and speeding approval for UAS use to help first responders. A copy of the letter is here.
09.12.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today submitted testimony to a hearing held by the International Trade Commission (ITC) calling for a ruling against the unfair softwood lumber trade practices employed by the Canadian lumber industry that are devastating Southwest Oregon’s timber industry. The ITC is currently hearing arguments on whether Canadian softwood lumber imports are damaging to the U.S. timber industry. Unlike the United States, the Canadian timber industry is heavily subsidized by the Canadian government, providing them an artificially lower cost of production than American timber, which is sold in a competitive free market system. This imbalance is further exacerbated by Canadian producers undercutting U.S. prices and dumping softwood lumber into the U.S. market to steal market share, as confirmed by a Department of Commerce investigation earlier this year. Because of the structural differences in markets and timber pricing between the two nations, Canada and the United States traditionally have a long-standing series of trade agreements governing timber sales, otherwise known as Softwood Lumber Agreements (SLAs). With the expiration of the last Softwood Lumber Agreement in 2015, representatives from the U.S. timber industry have petitioned the Department of Commerce and the ITC to fully enforce existing U.S. trade laws to ensure a level playing field for softwood lumber trade between the U.S. and Canada. In his testimony to the ITC, Congressman DeFazio writes, “This case represents not only fairness in trade, but economic stability for some of our most vulnerable communities. The U.S. timber industry supports more than 350,000 direct and indirect jobs across the country. Protecting the U.S. softwood lumber industry against unfair competition will promote good manufacturing jobs for Americans, investment in our local communities, and economic growth for our country.” To read Rep. DeFazio’s full testimony, click here. # # #
09.05.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), along with Reps. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Greg Walden (OR-02), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) today sent a letter to House leaders requesting that emergency funding for wildland fire suppression be included in the Hurricane Harvey emergency supplemental appropriations bill the House will take up later this week. The United States Forest Service (USFS) is expected to exhaust its funding for wildfire suppression within days. Dangerous wildfires have forced thousands of Oregonians to evacuate their homes and businesses and degraded air quality has caused serious health issues across Oregon. Currently, Oregon’s Chetco Bar fire has consumed more than 167,000 acres. It is estimated that the Chetco fire will not be contained until the end of October. To make matters worse, there are 23 other Oregon fires, including the Eagle Creek fire now threatening the Portland metro area and Columbia River Gorge communities. In total, these fires have burned over 340,000 acres to date. The lawmakers write, “Thousands of people have been evacuated, and homes and businesses have been destroyed. It is likely the USFS will exhaust all funding for wildfire suppression within days. Once that occurs, the agency is forced to borrow from other USFS accounts to pay for wildland fire suppression. Often the accounts that are depleted fund the very activities that help reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires, creating a vicious cycle.” To view a PDF version of the letter, click here.
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is both cruel and unnecessary. It is my sincere belief that individuals who were brought illegally into this country as infants or young children, through no choice of their own, should not be targeted for deportation. Our immigration system is broken. But rather than targeting nearly a million vulnerable, law-abiding youth who have built their lives in the U.S., Congress needs to work towards comprehensive immigration reform. Congress should pass H.R. 496, the BRIDGE ACT. Like DACA, this legislation affords temporary relief for law abiding youth to continue their education or work legally until such a time as Congress passes comprehensive immigration reforms.
08.31.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce the City of Roseburg will receive a federal grant of $85,774 from the Federal Aviation Administration for improvements at Roseburg Regional Airport. The funding will go toward removing runway obstructions and installing a new vertical/visual guidance system including a precision approach path indicator, to make the airport more accessible. “The Roseburg Airport is an important resource for the City of Roseburg and surrounding rural communities. This grant will make airplane landings safer, more accessible and ultimately help boost the local economy. I am pleased to see the federal government acknowledge the importance of investing in and updating our Nation’s general aviation infrastructure,” DeFazio said. In 2015, the FAA determined that Mt. Nebo was causing serious obstruction issues to the runway, subsequently forcing the city to shut down nighttime instrument approach. Installation of this new landing guidance system addresses Mt. Nebo obstruction issues without altering the landscape, and instead by changing the way planes fly into the airport. After hearing about the possible shut down of the airport, Rep. DeFazio worked closely with the FAA to find a solution which ultimately led to the issuance of this grant.
08.28.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today announced the award of a federal grant to Southwestern Oregon Community College (SWOCC) to develop a new health and sciences technology building on campus. The funds, totaling $3 million, were granted by the Economic Development Administration. The construction of a new building will expand and modernize old lab space and classrooms for the health and science programs at the college. The project is expected to add nearly 250 jobs to the local economy and create $5 million in private investment in the Coos Bay area. “I’m pleased that I was able to help SWOCC receive funding for this important project that will boost the local economy and create jobs,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The new facility at SWOCC will be a tremendous resource for our area’s rural communities by creating more skilled medical professionals and expanding the educational and training opportunities provided to the South Coast’s students.”
08.15.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today announced that the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) awarded approximately $4.9 million to six universities and one non-profit, including the University of Oregon, to support the transition of the “ShakeAlert” earthquake early warning (EEW) system from testing to production. “In an earthquake, every second counts,” said DeFazio. “The University of Oregon and other West Coast universities are doing important work to build an early warning system that will give people extra seconds to save lives, avoid or reduce injury and mitigate infrastructure damage during a major earthquake. I will continue to push for the funding necessary to develop and deploy earthquake preparedness and earthquake early warning systems.” When fully operational, the ShakeAlert system will use a network of sensors to detect seismic activity and alert impacted areas seconds before the tremors begin. Even a few seconds of advanced notice can trigger actions that mitigate injury and casualties by shutting down industrial systems, isolating utilities and protecting infrastructure. The $4.9 million in USGS grant funding will be awarded through cooperative agreements with California Institute of Technology, Central Washington University, University of California, Berkeley, University of Oregon, University of Washington, University of Nevada, Reno and UNAVCO, Inc. The USGS has also purchased about $1 million in new sensor equipment to expand and improve the ShakeAlert system. The USGS grant announcement can be found here.
08.14.2017	EUGENE–Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on the attack in Charlottesville: "I condemn the brutal attack in Charlottesville–which resulted in the tragic deaths of a peaceful protester and two law enforcement officers–in the strongest possible terms. Thousands of brave men and women served and died in World War II to keep the world free from Nazism and its perverse ideals, and the bigotry and hatred they fought against has no place in America today. It should not have taken the President 48 hours to name these groups for what they are: Anti-Americans, Neo-Nazi fascists, and domestic terrorists."
07.31.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) introduced legislation that would end price gouging on prescription drugs and other health care products developed with taxpayer money. Most recently, French pharmaceutical company Sanofi Pasteur has refused to agree to fair pricing on a new Zika virus vaccine, despite having received millions of taxpayer dollars for the drug’s development. Without a fair pricing agreement, the company can charge Americans as much as it wants for the vaccine, despite the financial assistance it has received from the U.S. government. The DeFazio-Sanders legislation would require federal agencies and federally-funded non-profit organizations to secure reasonable pricing agreements from drug manufacturers before granting exclusive rights to develop drugs, vaccines or other health care products. “Americans pay more out-of-pocket for prescription drugs than individuals in any other country, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, and France,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR). “Additionally, billions of U.S. tax dollars are spent every year underwriting the development and distribution of prescription drugs and insulating private drug companies from direct competition. Bizarrely, there is no adequate regulation on the pharmaceutical industry to ensure drug companies can’t reap massive profits on the taxpayer’s dime. Our legislation will ensure a more equal playing field and rein in the drug companies’ reckless greed.” "Sanofi and the rest of the pharmaceutical industry cannot be allowed to make huge profits on the backs of working class Americans, many of whom cannot afford the medication they are prescribed. The days of allowing Sanofi and other drug makers to gouge American consumers after taking billions in taxpayer money must end. That is why I am introducing legislation to demand fairer, lower prices for the Zika vaccine and for every drug developed with government resources. This is a fight that we cannot afford to lose,” Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) said. DeFazio and Sanders first introduced their legislation two decades ago with bipartisan support. # # #
07.31.2017	EUGENE—Due to anticipated extreme heat conditions, Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced a change in location for his upcoming town hall meeting in Oakridge scheduled for Wednesday, August 2nd at 5:30 PM. The town hall meeting, originally scheduled to be held at Oakridge High School, will now be held at: Oakridge City Council Chambers Willamette Activity Center 47674 School Street NOTE: Building is located at the intersection of School and Garden Streets behind the Shell Gas Station off of Highway 58. Please use the South side entrance of the building by the softball field. # # #
07.27.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today submitted testimony to the House Judiciary Committee in strong support of a balanced budget amendment. Rep. DeFazio has supported a balanced budget amendment throughout his time in Congress, and has repeatedly introduced his own legislation, H.J. Res 109, which would amend the U.S. Constitution to include a balanced budget amendment. This legislation would also require any military conflict that is not a congressionally-declared war to be counted as part of the budget, and protect Social Security and Medicare funds from being raided in order to pay for other government spending. In his testimony, DeFazio writes, “Some of my Democratic colleagues are opposed to a balanced budget amendment because it forces Congress to make tough decisions that could include spending cuts to programs that are important to them, and to me. I urge them to not lose sight of the fact that passing a balanced budget amendment needs support from Republicans and Democrats…Instead of tackling the most pressing problems that our country is dealing with, we spend our time in Washington lurching from budget crisis to budget crisis while counties and cities across the United States are left without the resources they need to plan for critical road and bridge construction and repair projects and critical social and nutritional programs are underfunded. I urge my colleagues to take responsibility for the national debt and pass a balanced budget amendment.” Rep. DeFazio’s full testimony to the Judiciary Committee is included below. Testimony to the Committee on the Judiciary Hearing on the Need for a Balanced Budget Amendment Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) July 27, 2017 Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers: Thank you for inviting me to testify on the necessity of a Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA). During a time of distractions and gridlock, I commend the Judiciary Committee for bringing this issue to the table. It’s a rare and refreshing demonstration of bipartisanship in the current environment. Today we are faced with a national debt of nearly $20 trillion and the expectation that our government will run out of money to pay its debts in October. If the federal limit on borrowing is not raised, for the first time in our nation’s history we will default, resulting in plunging markets around the world, rising global interest rates, and a downgrade in our nation’s debt rating. I am alarmed that while Congress continues to lurch from crisis-to-crisis, we are avoiding the bigger issue—our failure to balance the budget. While Democrats and Republicans haven’t agreed on much recently, we can all agree that Congress needs to do its job and put an end to our nation’s skyrocketing debt. A growing national debt is dangerous – to address the increasing risk they won’t be repaid, debt holders can demand larger payments from the federal government, increasing interest rates and slowing the economy while devaluing the dollar. This impacts average Americans, whose taxes will go increasingly towards repaying the debt and less towards programs we need, like Social Security and Medicare. With the Social Security trust fund currently slated to fall short of funds in 2034, this is unacceptable. We need to quit while we’re ahead and acknowledge the debt crisis. Balancing the budget does not need to be a partisan issue and I urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to support a balanced budget amendment to address these concerns. My support for a balanced budget amendment came soon after I came to Congress in 1987. It didn't take me long to realize that there is an infinite capacity in Washington, DC to kick the can down the road. The problem today is that can is getting pretty heavy to kick, and it's going to land on the next generation with full force—the current debt is almost $20 trillion, and unless action is taken, it will continue to spiral out of control. It’s time to make the tough decisions to stop our ever-expanding debt. A balanced budget amendment is the most effective way to do that. In 1995, with my support, the House passed a balanced budget amendment. It then failed by one vote in the Senate. Had that become the law of the land, today we would be a lot closer to paying down the last of the debt. Instead we have a nearly $20 trillion debt burden and little capacity to remedy it. In 2011, I bucked my Democratic leadership, and a powerful coalition of more than 270 interest groups to vote yes on a balanced budget amendment. I was the lead Democratic sponsor and worked closely with Chairman Goodlatte for months to secure broad support for the amendment. Unfortunately, my leadership and the special interest groups launched a massive campaign to oppose the bill. In the end only 25 Democrats supported the amendment and it failed to garner the necessary two-thirds votes to pass. I believe we can ultimately be successful, but it will take courage and work on both sides of the aisle. While I am the lead and only Democrat on Chairman Goodlatte’s H.J. Res. 2, I have also introduced my own resolution, H.J.Res. 109. Unlike H.J.Res. 2, my proposal would require that any significant military action that is not a congressionally declared war, like Afghanistan or Iraq, be included in the budget. This would force each year's budget to be honestly calculated and a president to think twice before sending our men and women to war without the required congressional approval. Additionally, my legislation protects Social Security and Medicare from being raided in order to pay for other government spending. We need to ensure these programs are not subject to arbitrary cuts because of other annual federal budgeting decisions. Social Security is not a significant driver of our deficits. Asking seniors who paid FICA taxes for decades to do more with less is wrong. My resolution addresses another issue. H.J. Res. 2 provides two exemptions to the balanced budget requirement. By a three-fifths vote, Congress can waive the requirements for any reason. A simple majority can waive the requirements because of a military conflict. Either of these exemptions could necessitate an increase in the debt limit. Since H.J. Res. 2 requires a separate three-fifths vote to raise the debt limit, it is conceivable that members could approve an unbalanced budget, and then refuse to increase the debt limit. Such hostage taking is not theoretical, which is why my legislation requires a mandatory increase in the debt limit should both Houses approve increased outlays over receipts. The majority has used the debt limit as leverage to extract concessions, an irresponsible practice. Some of my Democratic colleagues are opposed to a balanced budget amendment because it forces Congress to make tough decisions that could include spending cuts to programs that are important to them, and to me. I urge them to not lose sight of the fact that passing a balanced budget amendment needs support from Republicans and Democrats. Had the 1995 balanced budget amendment passed the Senate and been ratified by three-fourths of the states, every deficit-laden budget over the past 22 years would have needed a three-fifths vote to be approved. If we had passed a balanced budget amendment in 1995, we would not be approaching a $20 trillion debt today, and Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid would not be under attack. While I believe H.J.Res 109 is a better approach, I support Chairman Goodlatte’s resolution because it has the best chance of passage. I don’t believe we can afford to wait any longer to balance the budget. A balanced budget can be accomplished but it will take real compromise from both parties. Instead of tackling the most pressing problems that our country is dealing with, we spend our time in Washington lurching from budget crisis to budget crisis while counties and cities across the United States are left without the resources they need to plan for critical road and bridge construction and repair projects and critical social and nutritional programs are underfunded. I urge my colleagues to take responsibility for the national debt and pass a balanced budget amendment. # # #
07.20.2017	EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced he will hold the following town hall meetings across southwestern Oregon later this summer: Monday, July 31 Roseburg Town Hall Meeting 5:30-6:30 PM Rose Theatre Roseburg High School 400 W. Harvard Ave Tuesday, August 1 Eugene Seniors Town Hall Meeting 10:00-11:00 AM Campbell Community Center 155 High St Eugene Town Hall Meeting 5:30-6:30 PM Churchill High School Auditorium 1850 Bailey Rd Wednesday, August 2 Springfield Seniors Town Hall Meeting 1:00-2:00 PM Willamalane Adult Activity Center McKenzie Room 215 W C St Oakridge Town Hall Meeting 5:30-6:30 PM Oakridge High School Auditorium 47997 W 1st St Thursday, August 3 Albany Town Hall Meeting 4:00-5:00 PM Albany Public Library 2450 14th Ave SE Corvallis Town Hall Meeting 6:00-7:00 PM Linus Pauling Middle School Auditorium 1111 Cleveland Ave Monday, August 28 Bandon Town Hall Meeting 11:00 AM-12:00 PM Bandon Public Library 1204 11st St SW Coos Bay Town Hall Meeting 5:30-6:30 PM SW Oregon Community College Hales Center 1988 Newmark Ave Tuesday, August 29 Florence Town Hall Meeting 3:00-4:00 PM Siuslaw Middle School 2525 Oak St
07.19.2017	Today while the House Budget Committee considers the Republicans’ fiscally-irresponsible FY 2018 budget, Rep. Peter DeFazio introduced legislation that would amend the U.S. Constitution to include a balanced budget amendment. The amendment requires any legislation that would increase the nation’s deficit to be approved by three-fifths of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Each year, the President will be required to submit a balanced budget to Congress. “Our national debt has ballooned to nearly twenty trillion dollars, yet the GOP’s highest priority is tax cuts for our nation’s wealthiest,” said Rep. DeFazio. “It’s impossible to balance the budget with a massive increase in defense spending and massive tax cuts for the wealthy—that is, without slashing funding from programs that working Americans depend upon. Under the GOP’s budget, student loans, school lunch programs, food stamps, and earned benefits like Medicare are all on the chopping block. My legislation would balance the budget through prudent reductions in spending while protecting the programs Americans rely on.” The legislation, H.J. Res 109, would require any military conflict that is not a congressionally-declared war to be counted as part of the budget. Currently, the Department of Defense receives billions of “off-budget” dollars annually to fund military operations. The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost U.S. taxpayers over $1 trillion dollars, and despite dragging on for more than fifteen years, are still considered “emergency off-budget spending” and none of it is paid for. If Rep. DeFazio’s balanced budget amendment is enacted, spending for these and similar operations would have to be included in the annual budget. Congress will have the authority to waive the amendment in years when a declaration of war is in effect. In addition, Rep. DeFazio’s legislation would protect Social Security and Medicare from being raided in order to pay for other government spending. To see Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on his balanced budget legislation, click here. # # #
07.18.2017	Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s objectives for the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “I am pleased to see that the Trump administration took a hardline stance on the unconstitutional dispute settlement process laid out in Chapter 19 of the original agreement. Chapter 19 has wrought havoc on U.S. industries, in particular on the softwood lumber industry, and I have been pushing for its removal for decades. “However, this exclusion appears to be the only specific objective in a 17-page list of vague suggestions and half-hearted proposals. Working Americans have been waiting for more than two decades to see real, concrete changes to NAFTA, and simply tweaking a few provisions will not do anything to correct the disastrous course this deal set us on. “I have created the 21st Century Worker’s Bill of Rights as a guideline for the best way to renegotiate NAFTA to provide a truly fair deal for our nation’s workers. These guidelines include strong, enforceable provisions for economic, labor, and worker protections—provisions that are woefully lacking in the Trump administration’s objectives. “I will continue to watch NAFTA renegotiations closely, and will measure the success of any new trade deal against my 21st Century Bill of Rights to ensure that America’s workers, consumers, sovereignty and environment are fully protected.” Last week, Rep. DeFazio led seventeen other House members on a letter to President Trump outlining their priorities for the renegotiation of NAFTA. In the letter, the members declared their intent to use the 21st Century Worker’s Bill of Rights as a measurement for the administration’s NAFTA renegotiations and any new version of the agreement to come. To see a PDF version of the letter, click here.
07.12.2017	The House of Representatives yesterday approved legislation introduced by Congressman Peter DeFazio that would expand the land rights of three Southwestern Oregon federally-recognized tribes. “For years, these tribes have been unable to govern themselves as the sovereign nations that they are,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio. “This should have been corrected decades ago—the fact that they haven’t yet been are an embarrassing leftover from a shameful era of United States history. While there is still much work to be done, the passage of the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act is a move towards progress. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation quickly.” Rep. DeFazio’s bill, the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act (H.R. 1306) provides land in trust to the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians and to the Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians. Currently, the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe Indians and the Confederated tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians do not hold any land in trust. The increase in tribal lands will spur job development and economic growth for both tribes. The bill also restores the Coquille Indian Tribe’s sovereignty over the Coquille Forest. Unlike any other tribe in the United States, the Coquille Tribe must function under a legal anomaly with regard to managing its forest. The bill now heads to the Senate for further consideration.
07.11.2017	An investigation into alleged surgical safety issues at the Roseburg VA Medical Center, prompted by Congressman Peter DeFazio, will lead to updated standards of care for gastrointestinal patients at VA facilities across the country. “We would never dream of sending our troops into battle with unclear directives and outdated, sub-standard methodologies and technologies, yet out-of-date standards are being used for their medical care,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The VA needs to be held to the highest standards in all regards, but especially when it comes to veterans’ healthcare.” In 2014, a constituent at a town hall meeting alerted Congressman DeFazio to claims of threats to patient safety at the Roseburg VA hospital. At the request of Congressman DeFazio, the VA Office of Inspector General (OIG) conducted a healthcare inspection of the VA Roseburg Healthcare System. The report, released today, found evidence of outdated medical practices at the Roseburg VA. These practices did not endanger patients. However, the OIG found the Veterans Health Administration (VHA)’s Colorectal Cancer Screening directive—requirements to track the quality of care—did not provide stringent guidelines to indicate high-quality care. The investigation also found incidence of delays in some surgical and gastroenterology service areas. In one incident, a patient’s cancer diagnosis and notification of test results was delayed in part because of the patient backlog at the facility. Although major professional society guidelines, including the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) and the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG), have published guidelines for colonoscopy quality indicators, the VHA directives have not kept pace with best practices. Because of the findings in the report, the OIG has recommended to the Acting Under Secretary for Health that the VHA’s Colorectal Cancer Screening directive be revised to include up-to-date standardized documentation of quality indicators based on professional society guidelines and published literature to ensure that high-quality colonoscopies are performed. “Our veterans ought to receive the highest standard of care,” added Congressman DeFazio. “I will continue to push the VA to update their standards to where they ought to be for our nation’s veterans.” BACKGROUND In 2014, a constituent alerted Congressman DeFazio to threats to patient safety at the Roseburg VA hospital. Rep. DeFazio contacted the VA Inspector General (IG) and requested an immediate evaluation of the facility. In October of 2015, the IG informed Rep. DeFazio’s office that their investigation had not found any evidence of these claims. However, Congressman DeFazio alerted the OIG to testimony of U.S. Special Counsel before a Senate Committee that the complaints were accurate. Rep. DeFazio pressed the VA on these allegations and demanded a new investigation into the GI/Surgical departments in the Roseburg VA Healthcare System.
06.12.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today submitted comments pushing for worker protections and stronger labor and environmental standards in a new North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) set to be negotiated by the Trump Administration this year. Rep. DeFazio, a member of the House Advisory Group on Negotiations (HAGON), submitted his resolution, ‘The Worker’s Bill of Rights’, to the U.S. Trade Representative as part of the public comment period for NAFTA negotiations. The Trump Administration issued a notification letter indicating their intent to renegotiate the terms of the trade agreement on May 18. The letter contained few specifics on how the administration plans to conduct the negotiations with the two other countries in the agreement, Mexico and Canada, or what the intended results of the negotiations are. “I’ve been fighting for nearly twenty-five years against NAFTA and the disastrous impact it’s had on working Americans,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “I was disappointed and concerned when I saw the vague, confusing letter that the Trump Administration released notifying their intent to renegotiate the deal. This is the best opportunity we’ve been given in a quarter-century to fix our failed U.S. trade policy so that it helps, not hurts, American workers—we cannot squander this chance.” The Worker’s Bill of Rights outlines the principles that labor unions, environmental groups, and fair trade advocates agree must be included in any new version of NAFTA. Principles listed in the resolution include protections for Buy America and other domestic procurement provisions, ending the damaging Investor State Dispute Settlement process, eliminating the dangerous NAFTA Ch. 19, which has decimated the U.S. softwood lumber industry, and requiring foreign operators to comply with U.S. transportation laws. The principles laid out in Rep. DeFazio’s resolution direct that any NAFTA replacement deal negotiated by President Trump must: Require Strong Labor & Environmental Standards—and Ensure They are Enforced Add Strict, Enforceable Disciplines to Fight Against Currency Manipulation Eliminate Provisions that Undermine Domestic Procurement Preferences Require Imports and Foreign Companies Operating in the U.S. to Adhere to U.S. Laws Lower the Cost of Prescription Drugs End Tribunals that Undermine U.S. Trade Enforcement Laws, Such as NAFTA’s Chapter 19 Require Foreign Operators to Comply with U.S. Transportation Laws Require Strong Rules of Origin on Cars, Auto Parts, and Other Manufactured Goods Eliminate the Dangerous ISDS Provision that Undermines U.S. Sovereignty Protect U.S. Energy Policy Rep. DeFazio has met with both the U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to urge them to ensure any new trade agreement puts American workers first. # # #
06.07.2017	Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio called for the swift passage of his legislation, the Chemical Poisons Reduction Act of 2017, to ban the use of two lethal poisons for predator control purposes. The Chemical Poisons Reduction Act of 2017, H.R. 1817, would ban the use of Compound 1080 and sodium cyanide for predator control efforts. The bill is supported by Predator Defense, the International Fund for Animal Welfare, and the Humane Society. Rep. DeFazio was joined by the Mansfield family, whose 14-year-old son was nearly killed earlier this year after accidentally detonating an M-44 device. The family’s yellow lab, Casey, died as a result of cyanide poisoning from the device. “Tragically, the Mansfields are just one of many families who have experienced something like this,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04). “The use of these deadly toxins by Wildlife Services has led to countless deaths of family pets and innocent animals and injuries to humans. It is only a matter of time before they kill someone—Canyon Mansfield is only alive today because of sheer luck. The federal government should not be using these extreme measures in the name of so-called ‘predator control’.” "The fact that Wildlife Services continues to state that incidents of M-44s killing domestic dogs and exposing people to poison are 'rare' is an outrage," said Brooks Fahy, Executive Director, Predator Defense. "Those of us involved with this issue know these incidents are common-place and that countless more will never be known because of Wildlife Services' repeated cover-ups. We applaud this legislation and thank Congressman DeFazio for his unfailing support on this issue." "It's high time for our own federal government to stop using sodium cyanide and Compound 1080 on our public lands,” said Wayne Pacelle, Executive Director, the Humane Society Legislative Fund.” These two poisons are highly lethal but completely indiscriminate. They endanger children, beloved family pets, grizzly bears, wolves and bald eagles alike. And the deaths they cause are violent and inhumane." Compound 1080 is a tasteless, odorless, and colorless poison with no antidote. Although the EPA banned Compound 1080 in 1972, after intense lobbying from the livestock industry, it was re-approved for use in the "Livestock Protection Collar" (collars containing the poison that are placed around the necks of sheep and burst when punctured by a predator, barbed wire, or other sharp object) in 1985. Each of these collars contains enough poison to kill 6 adult humans. Sodium cyanide is contained within M-44 devices, which are spring-activated ejectors that deliver a deadly dose of poison when pulled on. The top of the ejector is wrapped with an absorbent material that has been coated with a substance that attracts canines. When the device is activated, a spring ejects the poison. The force of the ejector can spray the cyanide granules up to five feet. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Wildlife Services Agency regularly uses both of these poisons in their predator control programs, which are subsidized by the taxpayer. States contract with federal predator control programs to keep so-called ‘predator’ populations down to help ranchers protect their livestock. The use of these poisons has led to the deaths of endangered animals and domesticated dogs, and has injured multiple people in the past. “These deadly poisons have been proven no more effective than non-lethal methods—the only difference between the two is that the lethal methods supported by the ranching industry are subsidized by American tax dollars,” Rep. Defazio added. “It’s time to stop subsidizing ranchers’ livestock protection efforts with taxpayer dollars and end the unchecked authority of Wildlife Services once and for all.”
05.24.2017	Today, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure passed H.R. 2518, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2017, which includes language from Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) that will keep the Newport air facility open permanently. “It is impossible to understate how critical this air station is, not only to the hardworking men and women of Oregon’s fishing industry, but for all coastal visitors and residents. The provision I secured in the Coast Guard Authorization Act will keep the critical Newport Air Station open and helicopter operations serving the Oregon Coast permanently. This is a major victory for Oregon’s coastal communities. This legislation also guarantees that the Coast Guard has the resources and assets necessary to protect our ports, waterways, and coastal communities, and respond to disasters or emergencies affecting our mariners, fishermen, and the general public,” said DeFazio. The legislation authorizes the Coast Guard for two years at increased funding levels--a total of $9.3 billion in fiscal year 2018 and $9.5 billion in fiscal year 2019. These funding levels would help to backfill budget cuts imposed through the Budget Control Act, and provide a measure of budget certainty for the next two years. Of these amounts, nearly $7.3 and $7.5 billion is authorized, respectively, to support Coast Guard operations. The bill authorizes $1.94 billion in each fiscal year for acquisitions, construction and improvements. In addition, the bill provides for end-of-year strength of 43,000 active duty personnel and maintains existing military training student loads. DeFazio was a key negotiator and co-sponsor of the bipartisan legislation. COAST GUARD BACKGROUND Due to budget cuts, the Coast Guard threatened in 2014 to close the Newport air facility, which handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast. In 2015, members of the Oregon Delegation secured a prohibition on the closure of any Coast Guard facility, including the Newport air facility, for two years until January 1, 2018. H.R. 2518includes a provision to guarantee that the Newport air facility will stay open and serve Oregon’s coastal communities into the future. Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy.
05.23.2017	EUGENE—Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-04), along with Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley (D-OR), today announced the award of a federal grant to the City of Eugene to construct a publicly-owned high-speed network in the city’s downtown corridor. The funds, totaling nearly $2 million, come from an Economic Development Administration grant and will pay for the installation of fiber-optic cable to deliver high-speed Internet service to businesses located in Eugene’s Central Business District. The project is anticipated to create more than 200 jobs, with the potential to generate over $12 million in annual wages. In addition, this funding helps to support rural fiber extension across Lane County, paving the way for low-cost high-speed internet throughout Oregon’s Fourth Congressional district. “Eugene’s downtown is a rapidly-growing technology center and home to a wide variety of businesses—all of which depend on high-speed internet access” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “Such economic engines cannot flourish without the proper Internet infrastructure needed to conduct business in today’s world. This project will bring significant economic development to Eugene’s downtown and draw innovators to the area. I am excited for the opportunities this grant provides and look forward to seeing downtown Eugene flourish with this new infrastructure.” “I am gratified that Eugene has earned this funding that will generate both jobs and improved infrastructure for the local economy,” said Senator Ron Wyden. “I have strongly supported this fiber-optic cable project in Eugene’s central business district because it exemplifies the Oregon way of finding common-sense solutions that provide broad community benefits.” “In this day and age, technological infrastructure is just as important to economic development as roads, bridges and railways,” said Senator Jeff Merkley. “This grant will put Eugene on the leading edge of high-speed internet access, helping to spur new economic growth and job creation.” “This is great news for our city and our region,” said Eugene Mayor Lucy Vinis. “The City’s partnership with Eugene Water and Electric Board (EWEB), the Lane Council of Governments (LCOG), and the Technology Association of Oregon (TAO) along with the support of the EDA has made the Downtown Eugene Fiber Network a reality that is strengthening Eugene’s downtown Innovation District and setting our city apart by creating opportunities for local businesses to grow and compete in the global market.” “Greater Eugene is nurturing a growing industry of over 400 tech companies. This grant award will help the community realize its vision to be one of the best places in the country for internet access, supporting robust and sustainable job growth. We are celebrating this win today in part because of the terrific advocacy we have received from our elected federal officials. Thank you Senator Ron Wyden, Senator Jeff Merkley, and Congressman Peter DeFazio” said Matt Sayre, Director of the Technology Association of Oregon. # # #
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal: “The White House is lauding this budget as ‘Taxpayers First’, when in reality that could not be further from the truth. This budget puts giant corporations, millionaires and billionaires, and defense contractors first, and the everyday Americans last. “The President’s budget guts funding for critical programs that working families rely on and instead spend $1.6 billion on a completely useless wall between the U.S. and Mexico. “It gives an additional $52 billion to our already bloated Pentagon, while slashing $143 billion from federal student loan programs and completely eliminating funding for before-and-after-school programs, affecting an estimated 10,700 Oregon students. The President’s budget ends public service loan forgiveness and gets rid of subsidized loans for all students, while failing to adjust Pell Grants for inflation—for the first time in six years. “It strips $48 billion from Social Security’s disability program (an earned benefit), fails to deliver on promised infrastructure investment, and makes cruel cuts to Meals on Wheels, and cuts federal funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also known as food stamps, by 25%. The budget totally eliminates funding for programs like Foster Grandparents, Senior Companions, AmeriCorps and YouthBuild that benefit thousands of Oregonians and the individuals and communities they serve, while irresponsibly ballooning the deficit. “This is not a budget that reflects the priorities of the American people. Instead, the candidate who campaigned on behalf of working Americans has created a budget that prioritizes only the very wealthiest.”
05.19.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio this week successfully secured language in a major school infrastructure repair bill that would provide funds for seismic retrofitting for schools vulnerable to natural disasters, including earthquakes. House Democrats introduced H.R. 2475, the Rebuild America’s Schools Act, earlier this week. This legislation would invest $100 billion in our nation’s schools to address critical infrastructure needs. Rep. DeFazio, who is an original co-sponsor of this legislation, included language in the bill to protect schools at risk of damage from earthquakes. “It is not a question of if, but when Oregon will experience a massive earthquake and resulting tsunami,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04). “Most schools along Oregon’s coast have not been upgraded to withstand such an event, which could lead to billions of dollars in damage and hundreds of lives lost. My provision will ensure that Oregon’s coastal schools will be able to seismically retrofit their facilities to protect students from danger and protect critical infrastructure from damage.” Oregon’s greatest natural disaster risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, and is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” roughly every 300 years causing catastrophic earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January 26, 2017 marked the 317th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake.
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today introduced a bipartisan resolution that would designate May 15-19 as National Senior Corps Week and support full funding of the program. Senior Corps includes three programs for older Americans: the Senior Companion Program, which pairs volunteers with seniors who need assistance with daily household tasks; the Foster Grandparent Program, which pairs senior volunteers with children and youth in their communities; and the RSVP program, which provides a variety of volunteer opportunities to older Americans. Rep. DeFazio’s resolution, H.Res.344, supports full funding for Senior Corps programs, and designates the week of May 15-19 as National Senior Corps Week. “As a trained gerontologist and the person who brought the first-ever Senior Corps program to Lane County, I know firsthand the tremendous positive impact these programs have on a community,” said Rep. DeFazio (D-OR). “President Trump’s so-called “skinny budget” targets Senior Corps for elimination. This is unacceptable. My resolution supports fully funding Senior Corps, and recognizes the program for its many accomplishments. I have devoted my career to improving the lives of older Americans, and I will continue to fight for essential programs like this one.” Senior Corps programs enable senior volunteers to provide 96 million hours of essential services to their neighbors, at a lower cost than any other option.
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON—In advance of one of the busiest travel holidays of the year, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation with Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security Bennie Thompson (D-MS) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee for Transportation and Protective Security Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) that would help ease congestion and long lines at TSA screening checkpoints at airports. In 2013, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from the airline passenger security fees to offset unrelated government spending. The FASTER Act, H.R. 2514, would ensure that passenger security fees only go towards aviation security and prevent Congress from raiding the funds in the future. “Airline travel is often frustrating, with long lines and delays adding to an already stressful situation,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “There is ample funding—paid for by the consumer—that exists to ease this congestion, but it’s being diverted to cover government debt. President Trump’s recent “skinny budget” shows that he wants to raise airport security fees, but continue diverting the money to the General Fund. Instead of pushing for outrageous priorities like a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, the President should focus on directing designated funds towards their intended purpose that will actually improve our national security along with improving the efficiency of airport security.” In Fiscal Year 2016, passengers paid more than $3.6 billion in aviation security fees. However, of that money, $1.25 billion went to fund other federal priorities. In total, over $15 billion has been diverted from airport security to the General Fund since 2013. While this money has been diverted, the number of airline travelers has increased substantially. Because of TSA staffing shortages and increased security measures, airport security lines across the country have become longer, with passengers sometimes waiting in line for hours or missing flights. The FASTER Act would redirect billions of dollars in funding back to the TSA, so they can begin to address personnel shortages, decrease passenger wait times, and ensure a more efficient and safer screening process. “As summer travel season approaches, it is especially important that TSA has the resources necessary to ensure effective and efficient security screening,” said Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security. “The security fee consumers pay on each ticket should be dedicated to just that – security. Diverting those funds to other budget programs is a gimmick and Congress should, instead, pass this legislation so these fees are used in line with their original purpose – protecting America’s travelers.” “TSA’s past problems did not occur overnight,” said Rep. Bennie Thompson, Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security. “TSA needs the proper resources to be able to invest in its people and technology and make measurable improvements. One of the largest resource gaps TSA faces is the over a billion dollars of fees it collects from fliers that is being diverted away from aviation security towards deficit reduction. The bill we are introducing today will allow TSA to retain the fees it collects so it can properly staff airports around the country, operate as effectively as possible, and help secure our skies.” “The traveling public expects that when they spend money on a fee to cover their airport security screening, that’s where their money is going,” said Airlines for America President and CEO Nicholas E. Calio. “It’s disingenuous, and frankly wrong, for the government to break that commitment to passengers by diverting those funds to other matters that have nothing to do with aviation security. We applaud Representatives DeFazio, Thompson and Watson Coleman for introducing this important legislation that ensures passenger fees go towards their stated purpose.” "Airports welcome the introduction of the FASTER Act by Representatives DeFazio, Thompson and Watson Coleman to end the practice of diverting $1.28 billion this fiscal year and $13 billion over the decade of 9/11 Passenger Security Fees away from TSA's core aviation security mission to subsidize non-aviation related purposes," Airports Council International-North America President and CEO Kevin M. Burke said. "The safety and security of the traveling public is the top priority for airports. We urge Congress to act on this legislation to ensure TSA has the resources it needs to operate more effectively and efficiently."
05.18.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on President Trump’s notice to Congress that he would begin renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Deal (NAFTA): “I have been fighting against NAFTA and its disastrous impact on working class Americans for nearly twenty-five years. During his campaign President Trump called NAFTA the, “worst trade deal in the history of the world,” and promised to fix it within his first 100 days. On the first day of this Congress I called on President Trump to fulfill that promise and negotiate a new NAFTA that will actually work for the American people and brings jobs back to the U.S. “I have introduced a resolution outlining the most basic principles that must be part of any new agreement, including the end of damaging Investor State Dispute Settlements, ensuring protections for Buy America and other domestic procurement provisions, removing the unconstitutional Chapter 19 which has devastated the softwood lumber industry in my district, and creating enforceable safety standards for foreign trucks operating on U.S. highways. Today’s vague NAFTA notification is wholly inadequate and addresses none of these concerns. The letter gives no real details about how the administration intends to conduct these negotiations or what they plan on achieving from them, leaving Congress completely in the dark. As a member of the House Advisory Group on Negotiations (HAGON), I pressed Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and United States Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer to ensure that any renegotiation of NAFTA would include these provisions and others. Today’s notification letter is glaringly sparse on details, so it remains to be seen what will come of these negotiations and whether the President will fulfill his campaign promise to working American families. No matter what, I will continue pushing to ensure that we secure a new trade deal which promotes American workers, protects the environment, and brings jobs back to the U.S.”
05.10.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey: “The firing of FBI Director James Comey is a disturbing development in the Trump administration’s continued systematic obstruction of the investigation into Russian interference in our presidential election. We are still learning the troubling details surrounding Director Comey’s dismissal, including the fact that Attorney General Sessions—who, after multiple major revelations and embarrassments for the administration, recused himself from the Russia investigation due to his involvement in the Trump campaign—was directly involved with the decision to fire the FBI Director. “I have believed for some time that the only way to uncover the truth about the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia is to appoint a truly independent special prosecutor to conduct a thorough, unbiased investigation into the matter, and this latest incident only strengthens that belief. I have co-sponsored legislation to create an independent commission devoted to this investigation, and I urge Republican leadership to put aside any partisan differences and immediately act to look into this matter.”
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today issued the following statement on the passage of the American Healthcare Act: “The first version of the Republican healthcare bill would have stripped coverage from 24 million people and cost Americans over age 50 five times more than younger individuals for health insurance. Apparently, that wasn’t bad enough. “The latest version of the American Health Care Act goes even further, gutting protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions and increasing costs for our nation’s most vulnerable. This new bill will allow insurers to implement healthcare plans that would not cover hospital visits, doctor visits, prescription drugs, maternity care, or mental health and addiction treatment—while still handing a huge tax break to Americans who earn more than $250,000 a year. “My Republican colleagues are hailing this legislation as a victory for choice for the consumer. The only choices that this bill gives Americans who need coverage the most are between poverty, bankruptcy, or death.” To watch Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech against the American Healthcare Act, click here.
05.03.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced legislation that would levy a 0.03 percent tax on transactions of stocks, bonds and derivatives to discourage the risky speculative financial trading that led to the 2008 Wall Street collapse and 2010 ‘flash crash’. Rep DeFazio introduced the bill today in recognition of the seven-year anniversary of the so-called ‘flash crash” of 2010. On May 6, 2010, the Dow Jones index lost almost 9 percent of its value in a matter of minutes, as hundreds of billions of dollars were wiped off the share prices of major companies. Much of the excessive risk and volatility on Wall Street is caused by high-volume, short-term speculative trading, which the Putting Main Street FIRST Act would discourage. To see a video of Rep. DeFazio speaking on the Putting Main Street FIRST Act, click here. The Putting Main Street FIRST Act: Finishing Irresponsible Reckless Speculative Trading, H.R. 2306, would provide billions of dollars in revenue each year by taxing three basis points, or three pennies for every hundred dollars, on most financial trading including stocks, bonds, and other transactions. According to the Joint Committee for Taxation, the tax would raise $417 billion over ten years, which could be used to fund national priorities such as affordable higher education or investment in our crumbling infrastructure that would create tens of thousands of jobs and boost America’s competitiveness in the global economy. “President Trump has filled his administration with Wall Street executives and corporate bankers,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “Congress needs to protect Main Street from dangerous behaviors like speculative financial trading and near-instantaneous high-volume trades—the same behaviors that created the conditions that led to the 2008 Wall Street collapse and 2010 flash crash. These financial practices exist solely to churn out transactions that provide no real capital in the market, while leaving middle-class Americans behind.” “Working families pay their fair share and more in taxes,” said CWA President Chris Shelton. “It’s long past time that Wall Street traders and speculators stepped up. Congressman DeFazio’s plan for a financial transaction tax will put the brakes on Wall Street speculation and excesses by closing the loophole that allows Wall Street trades to avoid the kinds of sales tax that working families pay every day. We’re proud to join with him and progressive organizations that are working for real tax fairness and to counter destructive, one-sided tax proposals like those recently announced that further reward the wealthy at the expense of the rest of us.” “The ‘Putting Main Street First Act’ will help encourage long-term investing, fund badly needed public investment and make our tax code fairer for working people,” said AFL-CIO Director of Policy Damon Silvers. “It can happen in a flash—markets bottom out because high-frequency computer algorithms flock toward trading trends instead of riding out regular market ups and downs,” said Susan Harley, Public Citizen’s Congress Watch division. “Taxing Wall Street trades will help to solve this market irrationality by adding a small speed bump and make millisecond trades unprofitable while average investors will not even notice the tiny tax. And those three small cents out of every hundred dollars traded stacks up to more than $417 billion in revenue over ten years according to an official congressional analysis. Public Citizen applauds the reintroduction of this critical reform.” “We applaud Representative DeFazio's financial transaction tax proposal; a Wall Street speculation tax would not only help move our financial markets away from dangerous high-frequency trading, but also raise significant revenue to address unmet needs,” said Lisa Donner, Executive Director of Americans for Financial Reform. “Given the massive costs of the financial crisis and its devastating impact on families across the country -- and on the wealth of communities of color in particular -- it is long past time for Wall Street to pay its fair share in taxes.” “This tax is a great way to raise money for the federal government by making the financial sector more efficient,” said Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. “The cost of the tax will be fully covered by the savings from reduced trading. This means that the ordinary investor will be left unharmed by this tax. The only people who feel the impact will be the short-term traders and the financial intermediaries.” The bill has been endorsed by Public Citizen, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, the Institute for Policy Studies, Americans for Financial Reform, the Communications Workers of America (CWA), the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), and the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME).
04.28.2017	Today, members of Oregon’s Congressional Delegation introduced the bipartisan Community Protection and Preparedness Act (H.R.2223), legislation that creates a new trust fund to help communities prepare for accidents involving rail cars transporting flammable liquids, including crude oil and ethanol. The legislation was sponsored by Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and co-sponsored by Representatives Greg Walden (R-OR), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR). The Community Protection and Preparedness Act would create a trust fund to be used for emergency response and clean up after rail accidents involving flammable liquids. The fund would also be used to issue grants to help prepare and protect communities along rail lines. In addition, the legislation would also require the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to issue a final rule on oil spill response plans and information sharing for high-hazard flammable trains. It also authorizes funding for the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration to hire additional track safety specialists and instructs the Secretary of Transportation to study the effectiveness of track inspections. “Every day, thousands of rail tank cars carrying toxic, hazardous materials crisscross the country. The communities along these train routes shouldn’t be on the hook for clean up or damages after an accident and spill occurs. This legislation would help protect and prepare communities by providing funding to help States and Native American tribes develop and carry out emergency response plans, and provide critical training for emergency responders. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which will better protect the public and the environment, and help prepare communities both big and small,” said DeFazio. “Safety is a top priority for Oregon communities near highly-trafficked railways. The people who live in areas like the Columbia Gorge deserve peace of mind that, if an accident occurs, the proper emergency response and protection plans are in place and ready to be implemented. Our bipartisan plan takes important steps to improve rail safety, including assessing where inspections need improvement, imposing a fee for older standard tank cars and equipping first-responders with the tools they need to protect lives and property. Rail safety is critical as we work to protect the natural treasures in our state and the people who live here. I’m proud to join my colleagues once again in support of this bill,” said Walden. “Seeing our beautiful Columbia Gorge on fire last summer was an eye-opener for everyone on the dangers of how we transport oil and other hazardous materials. We must do more to minimize the risk of future incidents like the Mosier oil train derailment and make sure communities are better prepared to respond,” said Blumenauer. “Since the fiery derailment in Mosier last year, Oregon residents, businesses, and communities near rail lines worry that the next oil train accident could happen in their backyard,” said Bonamici. “Oregonians deserve to be safe and feel safe from this threat. We also have a responsibility to protect Oregon’s forests, wetlands, streams, and rivers from oil spills and fires. I support this legislation because it will help remove unsafe tank cars from the tracks and make sure that our firefighters and first responders are ready and equipped to respond.” Creating New Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to Help Communities The Community Protection and Preparedness Act of 2017, creates a Rail Account in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, and authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to collect an annual fee of $1,500 for each outdated DOT-111 and CPC-1232 rail tank car that fails to meet the new Department of Transportation (DOT) standards that drastically improve rail tank car safety. The fees are imposed on each person who ships Class 3 flammable liquid, including crude oil and ethanol, in outdated tank cars. The fee would be applied annually, starting on October 1, 2017 for the use of tank cars the prior year. Funds collected will be provided for the payment of removal and remediation costs and other costs, expenses, claims, and damages related to an accident or incident involving the transportation of Class 3 flammable liquids by rail. Funds can also be used by the Secretary to make grants to States and Native American tribes to develop and carry out emergency plans, develop and train regional response teams, and train emergency responders. The legislation allows the Secretary to collaborate with States and Native American tribes in preparing for an accident or incident.
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON—Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Greg Walden (OR-02), Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) released the following statement in response to the Commerce Department’s announcement of preliminary countervailing duties on softwood lumber imports from Canada: “Today’s announcement from the Commerce Department gives us hope the U.S. lumber industry may finally see relief from decades of trade abuses. For years, American communities who depend on the softwood lumber industry have had their livelihoods threatened by heavily-subsidized Canadian lumber increasingly imported into the U.S. Our workers have faced high unemployment, and domestic companies have struggled to compete with a highly-subsidized Canadian industry. Thanks to a lack of protection for the lumber industry, Canadian softwood lumber now accounts for one-third of the U.S. market. “The countervailing duties announced yesterday will give the U.S. lumber industry the ability to invest and grow without the constraints of unfairly imported Canadian lumber. “Since the expiration of the Softwood Lumber Trade Agreement in 2015, we have been fighting stop the growing influx of Canadian lumber into our market. Today’s action by the Commerce Department confirms what we’ve known all along—Canadian subsidies have severely harmed U.S. manufacturers and workers. We applaud these tariffs as a step in the right direction, yet remain hopeful that a new agreement which allows the U.S. timber industry to grow and compete on a level playing field can be reached.” In September 2016 Reps. DeFazio, Walden, Larsen, and Herrera Beutler, along with 37 other House Members sent a letter to then-United States Trade Representative Michael Froman supporting efforts to negotiate a new Softwood Lumber Agreement that would put U.S. lumber on a level playing field. Since no new agreement has been reached, the U.S. lumber industry was forced to exercise its rights under U.S. trade laws and file antidumping and countervailing duties cases against Canadian lumber in order to protect American workers, manufacturers, and communities.
04.07.2017	Leading a group of lawmakers including Barbara Lee (CA-13), James McGovern (MA-02), and Mark Pocan (WI-02), Rep. Peter DeFazio today sent a letter to President Trump urging him to brief Congress on the scope of his campaign in Syria and his exit strategy within 48 hours. After reports of a chemical weapons attack by Bashar al-Assad on his own people in Syria, President Trump authorized a missile strike on Shayrat Air Base in Syria on Thursday evening. Although the lawmakers condemn the brutal attacks on civilian lives, they criticized President Trump for not seeking congressional approval before authorizing the missile strike and for failing to present plans for his objectives in the region to Congress. As laid out in Article I of the Constitution and the War Powers Resolution, the President must seek Congressional approval after engaging in military action within 48 hours and provide a detailed scope of his objectives and exit strategy. In the letter, the lawmakers write, “Not only did you fail to seek congressional authorization for this military strike, but to the best of our understanding, Congress was neither formally consulted nor notified that you had approved the use of a retaliatory missile strike on Syria… Based on these actions, the 48-hour stipulation under the War Powers Resolution has been triggered and you must report to Congress within this time period the information stipulated in the War Powers Resolution.” The letter urges President Trump to submit a request to Congress for an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) if he intends to further escalate military engagement in Syria. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. April 7, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing on the urgent matter of your most recent military actions in Syria. Following reports of Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons attack on his own people in Syria, you authorized the use of more than 50 Tomahawk cruise missiles from the USS Ross and USS Porter, located in the Mediterranean Sea, on Shayrat Air Base in Syria. We condemn the actions of the Syrian dictator, which are not only deplorable but constitute a direct break from the Chemical Weapons Convention, which Syria signed in 2013. The Convention is an arms control treaty, which clearly outlaws producing and using chemical weapons. However, we recognize that decisions on our national security cannot be based on instinct or emotional reactions—they have to come from strategic and thorough planning by our Nation’s top security advisors and most importantly, with the input of Congress. According to the Constitution, the powers of war are divided between the executive and legislative branches. Article I, Section 8, Clause 11, explicitly assigns the power to declare war to Congress. The president constitutionally must seek formal authorization for war. Specifically, pursuant to the War Powers Resolution— which reaffirms and further elaborates the constitutional meaning of the war powers granted to Congress—the president has to submit a report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the President pro tempore of the Senate within 48 hours of engaging in military action. The report has to set forth: (1) the circumstances necessitating the introduction of United States Armed Forces; (2) the constitutional and legislative authority under which such introduction took place; and (3) the estimated scope and duration of the hostilities or involvement. This important legislation establishes specific procedural steps that the president is required to take if he wants to engage in military action while also addressing the potential for the need of an emergency response to an attack. It clearly indicates that in every possible instance, the president is to consult with Congress before engaging in any military conflict. Not only did you fail to seek congressional authorization for this military strike, but to the best of our understanding, Congress was neither formally consulted nor notified that you had approved the use of a retaliatory missile strike on Syria. This sets a dangerous precedent for your administration and is in direct contradiction to previous statements you’ve made denouncing intervention in Syria, avoiding further entanglements in the Middle East and ultimately putting America’s interests first. Based on these actions, the 48-hour stipulation under the War Powers Resolution has been triggered and you must report to Congress within this time period the information stipulated in the War Powers Resolution noted above. Should you anticipate the need for further involvement in Syria, through the use and deployment of our Armed Forces, we ask that you prepare and submit to Congress a comprehensive request for the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) that clearly outlines the objective of military action, an estimated duration of engagement, and a plan for an exit strategy in Syria. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress Barbara Lee Member of Congress James P. McGovern Member of Congress Mark Pocan Member of Congress
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on President Trump’s missile strikes in Syria: “Bashar al-Assad is a brutal dictator whose inhumane chemical attacks against his own people are an unspeakable atrocity. “However, President Trump’s actions last night in attacking a Syrian airfield constitute a military action taken without congressional authorization. I have repeatedly called on President Trump to respect Congress’s war-making powers and consult with Congress before committing U.S. troops to any military conflict, as laid out in Article I of the Constitution and the War Powers Resolution. We cannot allow ourselves to be led into another open-ended conflict in the Middle East without clear objectives and an exit strategy. I urge President Trump to immediately consult Congress on his plans for the campaign in Syria, seek congressional authorization under the War Powers Resolution before any further engagement, and let the American people know our exit strategy.”
04.05.2017	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Representative Mike Kelly (R-PA), introduced H.R. 1908 the Investing in America: Unlocking the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Act, legislation that would increase investments in critical harbor and port projects and guarantee that money intended to dredge the nation’s coastal and inland commercial ports would actually go toward harbor maintenance. “Safe, navigable ports enhance regional and local economic development and sustain and create thousands of jobs in Oregon. Today, I introduced bipartisan, common sense legislation that guarantees increased investments in our ports and harbors, creates jobs in Oregon’s coastal communities, makes conditions safer for our fishing and recreation industries, and provides a tremendous boost to our economic competiveness. And, it does all of this without raising taxes or adding a penny to the deficit,” said DeFazio. The Investing in America: Unlocking the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Act provides more than $18 billion over the next decade, which is a 29 percent increase in investment, and will enable the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge all Federal commercial harbors to their constructed widths and depths. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) estimates that full channels at the Nation’s 59 busiest ports are available less than 35 percent of the time. The Unlocking the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund proposal provides the necessary funding to dredge commercial harbors and ports of all sizes, and maintain these harbors for the next decade, without raising a dime in taxes or adding a penny to the deficit. To learn more about the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND In 1986, Congress enacted the Harbor Maintenance Tax to recover the operation and maintenance dredging costs for commercial ports from maritime shippers. The Harbor Maintenance Tax is directly levied on importers and domestic shippers using coastal or inland ports as a 0.125 percent ad valorem tax on the value of imported cargo (e.g., $1.25 per $1,000 value) and is typically passed along to U.S. taxpayers on the purchase of imported goods or services. These revenues are deposited into a Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund within the U.S. Treasury from which Congress currently appropriates funds to the Corps for harbor maintenance dredging. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund collects far more revenues from shippers than Congress has provided to the Corps to maintain our harbors, with approximately $9 billion in already collected revenues sitting idle in the U.S. Treasury. As a result, shippers continue to honor their commitment to pay for promised maintenance activities that the Federal Government then fails to carry out. There are sufficient funds in the Trust Fund to meet the maintenance dredging needs of all Federally-authorized ports. The problem is that these funds, which were collected for this express purpose, are diverted to hide the size of the budget deficit. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will collect $18.5 billion in new revenues over the next decade—in addition to the estimated $8.8 billion in previously collected but unspent revenues in the Trust Fund. According to CBO, Federal appropriations from the Trust Fund over the next decade are only expected to total $14.3 billion, and would result in the balance of the Trust Fund doubling—reaching $17.2 billion in fiscal year 2026. The Investing in America: Unlocking the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund would finally reverse this trend and all money collected for harbor maintenance would actually go towards harbor maintenance. --30--
03.31.2017	Leading a group of sixteen lawmakers, Representative Peter DeFazio today sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging either the withdrawal of ground troops from Syria or that he seek Congressional approval to extend their stay. In early March, President Trump deployed ground troops into Syria as part of the fight against the terrorist organization Daesh (also known as ISIS or ISIL) without seeking Congressional approval. The War Powers Resolution requires the President to report to Congress within 48 hours of introducing U.S. armed forces into hostilities if there has not been a formal declaration of war. The resolution requires troops to be withdrawn within 60 days unless Congress declares war or authorizes continued military involvement. President Trump has until May 7, 2017 to withdraw troops or receive Congressional approval. The United States has been operating under the Authorization of Military Force (AUMF) created in 2001 after the attacks of September 11, 2001. Presidents Bush, Obama and now Trump have used this AUMF as a blanket Congressional approval and blank check for conflict against the presidentially-designated ‘associated forces’ of Al-Queda. The lawmakers wrote, “Congress has not authorized the use of force in Syria and there has been no attack on the U.S. where you would have the authority to avoid Congressional consent due to an imminent threat. We urge you to uphold your Constitutional obligation and adherence to the law—specifically the War Powers Resolution—by terminating forces from Syria by May 7, 2017 or seeking Congress’s authorization to extend their stay…We refuse to abandon our Constitutional war power responsibilities and demand an actionable response. If Congress does not receive a meaningful response, we stand willing to use all tools at the disposal of the legislative branch to assert these Congressional authorities, including the possibility of an expedited vote pursuant to the War Powers Resolution on the withdrawal of troops from Syria.” A recognized public watchdog of Congress’s power to declare war, Rep. DeFazio has repeatedly fought to uphold the legislative branch’s authority in the use of military force throughout his career. The text of the letter is below. To view a PDF version of the letter, click here. March 31, 2017 The Honorable Donald Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump, We write to address the pressing and time-sensitive issue of our servicemen and women in hostilities in Syria. The Constitution divides the powers of war between the Executive and Legislative branches. In Article I, Section 8, Clause 11, it explicitly assigns the power to declare war to Congress. The president is the Commander in Chief of the military yet must seek formal authorization for war. In order to avoid either of the two branches bypassing one another, Congress passed the War Powers Resolution in 1973. The important legislation established specific procedural steps that the president is required to take if he wants to engage in military action while also addressing the potential for the need of an emergency response to an attack. Specifically, the War Powers Resolution requires the president to report to Congress within 48 hours of introducing U.S. Armed Forces into hostilities if there has not been a formal declaration of war. Forces must be withdrawn within 60 days unless Congress declares war or authorizes continued military involvement. Furthermore, the United States has been operating under a 15-year-old Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF), which passed in 2001 in order to pursue actors specifically involved in “the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11.” The AUMF has instead served as a blank check for war against forces that the president unilaterally designates as "associated forces" of Al Qaeda, including military action against terrorist groups that did not even exist when it was passed. According to reports from February 15, 2017, your administration proposed to introduce ground troops into Syria as part of the fight against the terrorist organization Daesh (also known as ISIS or ISIL). These reports were confirmed on March 8, 2017, when senior U.S. officials stated that Marines from the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit were deployed into Syria with heavy artillery such as howitzers to assist local Syrian forces in their fight to take back the city of Raqqa. These additional 400 troops add to the 500 Special Forces that are already on the ground training Syrians. During your campaign, you stated that the United States cannot be the “policeman of the world.” However, engaging in military action in Syria is doing just that. Your administration has attempted to rationalize its most recent actions by making a distinction as to what constitutes an action requiring congressional authorization. During a press briefing on March 9, 2017, a reporter questioned Press Secretary Sean Spicer on whether you were committed to going to Congress for a new AUMF to continue action in Syria. Spicer responded: “I think there’s a big difference between an authorization of war than sending a few hundred advisors. And I think most in Congress would probably agree with that as well. I think that’s a big difference between a hostile action and going in to address some certain concerns, whether it’s certain countries in the Middle East or elsewhere. “ Nowhere in the Constitution does it state a distinction between “hostile action” and addressing “some certain concerns.” In fact, the War Powers Resolution reaffirms the Constitution by stating that the president has the power to introduce U.S. Armed Forces into hostilities only pursuant to: (1) a declaration of war; (2) specific statutory authorization, or (3) a national emergency created by attack upon the United States, its territories or possessions, or its armed forces. Congress has not authorized the use of force in Syria and there has been no attack on the U.S. where you would have the authority to avoid Congressional consent due to an imminent threat. We urge you to uphold your Constitutional obligation and adherence to the law—specifically the War Powers Resolution—by terminating forces from Syria by May 7, 2017 or seeking Congress’s authorization to extend their stay. Your administration has 37 days left before you are obligated to withdraw our servicemen and women from Syria or seek the consent of Congress for forces to remain. We refuse to abandon our Constitutional war power responsibilities and demand an actionable response. If Congress does not receive a meaningful response, we stand willing to use all tools at the disposal of the legislative branch to assert these Constitutional authorities, including the possibility of an expedited vote pursuant to the War Powers Resolution on the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Syria. Sincerely, ____________________________________ Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress ____________________________________ Mark Pocan Member of Congress ____________________________________ Barbara Lee Member of Congress ___________________________________ Walter B. Jones Member of Congress ___________________________________ John Conyers Member of Congress ___________________________________ Jared Huffman Member of Congress ___________________________________ James P. McGovern Member of Congress ___________________________________ Raúl M. Grijalva Member of Congress ___________________________________ Rick Nolan Member of Congress ___________________________________ Steve Cohen Member of Congress ___________________________________ Frank Pallone Member of Congress ___________________________________ Dwight Evans Member of Congress ___________________________________ Nydia M. Velázquez Member of Congress ___________________________________ Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress ___________________________________ David Cicilline Member of Congress ___________________________________ Keith Ellison Member of Congress ___________________________________ Jackie Speier Member of Congress
03.30.2017	Today Congressman Peter DeFazio introduced H.R. 1817, the Chemical Poisons Reduction Act of 2017, legislation that would ban the use of the lethal poisons Compound 1080 and sodium cyanide for predator control efforts. The bill is supported by the national wildlife advocacy group Predator Defense, as well as the Humane Society. “I have been trying to ban the indiscriminate use of lethal devices and poisons like Compound 1080 and the chemicals used in M-44 devices for decades, even as a Lane County Commissioner,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, (D-OR). “The use of these deadly toxins by Wildlife Services has led to countless deaths of family pets and innocent animals and injuries to humans. It is only a matter of time before they kill someone. These extreme so-called ‘predator control’ methods have been proven no more effective than non-lethal methods—the only difference between the two is that the lethal methods supported by the ranching industry are subsidized by American tax dollars.” "The fact that Wildlife Services continues to state that incidents of M-44s killing domestic dogs and exposing people to poison are 'rare' is an outrage," said Brooks Fahy, Executive Director, Predator Defense. "Those of us involved with this issue know these incidents are common-place and that countless more will never be known because of Wildlife Services' repeated cover-ups. We applaud this legislation and thank Congressman DeFazio for his unfailing support on this issue." "It's high time for our own federal government to stop using sodium cyanide and Compound 1080 on our public lands,” said Wayne Pacelle, Executive Director, the Humane Society Legislative Fund.” These two poisons are highly lethal but completely indiscriminate. They endanger children, beloved family pets, grizzly bears, wolves and bald eagles alike. And the deaths they cause are violent and inhumane." Compound 1080 is a tasteless, odorless, and colorless poison with no antidote. Although the EPA banned Compound 1080 in 1972, after intense lobbying from the livestock industry, it was re-approved for use in the "Livestock Protection Collar" (collars containing the poison that are placed around the necks of sheep and burst when punctured by a predator, barbed wire, or other sharp object) in 1985. Each of these collars contains enough poison to kill 6 adult humans. Sodium cyanide is contained within M-44 devices, which are spring-activated ejectors that deliver a deadly dose of poison when pulled on. The top of the ejector is wrapped with an absorbent material that has been coated with a substance that attracts canines. When the device is activated, a spring ejects the poison. The force of the ejector can spray the cyanide granules up to five feet. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Wildlife Services Agency regularly uses both of these poisons in their predator control programs, which are subsidized by the taxpayer. States contract with federal predator control programs to keep so-called ‘predator’ populations down to help ranchers protect their livestock. The use of these poisons has led to the deaths of endangered animals and domesticated dogs, and has injured multiple people in the past. Most recently, three domestic dogs were killed in Idaho and Wyoming and a teenage boy was nearly poisoned after he accidentally detonated an M-44 device. “The federal government should not be using these extreme measures,” Rep. Defazio added. “It’s time to stop subsidizing ranchers’ livestock protection efforts with taxpayer dollars and end the unchecked authority of Wildlife Services once and for all.” # # #
03.29.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced his support for H.R. 676, the Expanded and Improved Medicare for All Act, which would establish a privately-delivered, publicly-financed universal health care system in the United States. Rep. DeFazio issued the following statement on the bill: “The defeat of the Ryan-Trump Freedom from Healthcare and Tax Cuts for the Rich Act—the so-called “American Health Care Act”—marks a potential turning point in a decades-long debate,” said Rep. DeFazio (OR-04). “Although the Affordable Care Act has dramatically reduced the number of uninsured individuals, it has been in great need of improvement since day one. The bill that passed the House was far superior, with national exchanges and a government not-for profit option. In my opinion, the provision of a government-run, not-for-profit health plan would have paved the way to a single-payer system with more comprehensive coverage at a lower cost. I have introduced legislation that would establish such a plan. “It is past time to explore all options that could improve Medicare and provide its benefits to all Americans. I am cosponsoring H.R. 676, the Expanded & Improved Medicare for All Act in the hopes of engendering a serious discussion of single payer during the next election cycle.” Rep. DeFazio has long advocated moving the United States to a single-payer healthcare system. During the creation of the Affordable Care Act, Rep. DeFazio fought to include a provision in the bill that would have created a not-for-profit healthcare plan that would have competed alongside private industry; however, the provision was stripped from the bill in the Senate version. He has since introduced legislation to establish a public health insurance option in the national health insurance market.
03.27.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 654, the Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2017, legislation introduced by House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) that would identify funding for an earthquake early warning system off the Pacific Northwest coast. This critical early warning system could save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. The legislation passed 395-11. “We have known about the threat posed by the Cascadia Subduction Zone for decades, and yet we have failed to prepare and protect our coastline from a catastrophic earthquake. My legislation is simple—it forces the federal government to get serious and install a critical system that could save thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage. I applaud my colleagues for taking this threat seriously and working with me to prepare and protect our coastal communities. I urge the Senate to pass this common sense bill,” said DeFazio. See video of Ranking Member DeFazio’s speech supporting the legislation here. DeFazio’s legislation would require FEMA to develop a plan and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. It also clarifies that FEMA may use hazard mitigation funds to improve the earthquake early warning system. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, manufacturing lines, close bridges, and protect students in unsafe schools. It can help reduce the long-term economic losses that are often excluded from damage estimates. A warning can have significant impact by alerting citizens of the need to take appropriate action when an earthquake occurs. It also directs the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate our coastlines. “Cascadia poses a unique threat," said University of Oregon Earth Sciences Professor Doug Toomey. "'Congressman DeFazio's legislation recognizes that the "Sleeping Giant" requires an offshore/onshore monitoring system like the one Japan has developed. It would give scientists and the public necessary information that will make us safer and more resilient." The University of Oregon, along with the University of Washington and US Geological Survey, operates the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, one of three seismic networks that make up the backbone of the onshore west coast earthquake early warning system. To watch Ranking Member DeFazio’s speech in support of the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND Oregon’s greatest risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” every 300 years or so causing major earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January 26, 2017 marked the 317th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake. Experts agree that Oregon is due for another major earthquake. Some forecasts suggest there is a ten to twenty percent chance of a magnitude 9 quake on the CSZ in the next fifty years, while others predict a twenty-five to forty percent chance of a major quake on the south end of the CSZ in the next fifty years. Last year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. That legislation included language proposed by DeFazio to require the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force to develop a strategy and make recommendations on how to prepare for and respond to an earthquake in the CSZ. It also included a provision DeFazio sponsored to clarify that building a capability for an earthquake early warning system is an eligible use of FEMA’s hazard mitigation funding. The Senate did not consider H.R. 1471.
03.21.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today sent a letter to Oregon Governor Kate Brown applauding cuts to ineffective predator control programs at the Oregon Departments of Agriculture (ODA) and Fish and Wildlife (ODFW), which were laid out in her Recommended Budget. In the last month alone, three dogs have been killed by cyanide bombs (also known as M-44 devices) used by Wildlife Services for predator control practices. In February, the gray wolf OR-48 was killed after ingesting poison from an M-44 device. Governor Kate Brown suggested $940,280 in cuts to funding of predator control programs through ODA and ODFW in her Recommended Budget earlier this month. This money is used by Oregon counties with contracts through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Wildlife Services, an agency whose lethal predator control methods pose a significant threat to wildlife, people, and domestic pets. “The deaths of three innocent dogs in the past month are only the latest needless tragedies due to the cruel use of M-44 devices,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04). “The Oregon taxpayer must stop footing the bill for these expensive, inhumane, and unnecessary methods of so-called ‘predator control’. I applaud Governor Brown for taking this first step towards reforming the broken Wildlife Services agency and urge the Legislature to follow suit.” "Last week in Idaho one of Wildlife Services' poison devices killed a family's dog and just missed killing their 14-year-old son near their own back yard," said Brooks Fahy, Executive Director of the Eugene-based wildlife advocacy group Predator Defense. "This travesty is in addition to the thousands of pets they have already slaughtered in their quest to kill native predators. Ironically, the vast majority of predators they kill have not even preyed on livestock, and science shows that killing predators creates far more problems than it solves. Unfortunately most Oregonians still don't know their taxes support this secretive, rogue federal agency. We’re grateful to Governor Brown for her support on this critical issue.” Rep. DeFazio has worked to eliminate dangerous and ineffective predator control programs throughout his career, both in Congress and as Lane County Commissioner. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. The Honorable Kate Brown Governor 254 State Capitol Building 900 Court Street, NE Salem, OR 97310 Dear Governor Brown, I applaud the $940,280 of cuts in your Recommended Budget to reduce funding for lethal control of predatory animals from the Oregon Departments of Agriculture and Fish and Wildlife. Reducing funding for Oregon’s predatory animal control program is long overdue. This money is used by counties for contracts with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Wildlife Services, an agency whose methods pose a threat to wildlife, people and domestic pets. Not only are Wildlife Services’ methods inherently dangerous, cruel, and indiscriminate, but the agency has a track record of negligence and unaccountability. I have been trying to eliminate the Wildlife Services lethal predator control program for over 30 years, including when I served as a Lane County Commissioner in the 1980's. Over the years, I've been disheartened by disturbing instances where domestic pets and individuals in Oregon and other states have been poisoned by M-44 sodium cyanide ejectors set by Wildlife Services. I've had several constituents who have lost their beloved pets to these indiscriminate devices. So far in March three dogs have died in nearby states. A 14-year-old boy in Idaho accidentally set off an M-44 not far from his backyard and watched his dog die an agonizing death in front of him. The only reason he wasn’t poisoned was because the wind was blowing the other direction. And a family out for a walk on the prairie in Wyoming lost two dogs to an M-44 while their 8-year-old girl watched. Scores of these devices are currently set in Oregon just waiting for another child or dog to trigger them. Last month’s killing of wolf OR-48 after ingesting the poison from the M-44 device is yet another recent example of this agency’s careless and negligent use of dangerously indiscriminate lethal devices. Wildlife Services agent in Wallowa county had set a baited M-44 in an attempt to target coyotes at a landowner’s request. Instead, wolf OR-48 tugged on the bait, cyanide was injected into his mouth, and he met a painful death. Wildlife Services is an agency that operates with little-to-no public accountability. They use taxpayer dollars to kill predators to benefit private ranching interests, among other activities. They don’t use the best available science, which shows their methods are counter-productive. In addition to M-44s, they use other lethal methods like aerial gunning, leghold traps, strangling neck snares, and Compound 1080 poison livestock protection collars. These methods are expensive, inhumane, and unnecessary for the protection of humans and livestock. More effective, non-lethal methods are available, but they are widely ignored by Wildlife Services, who provides the ranchers no incentive to use them. Please do whatever you can to be sure your budget cuts to Wildlife Services survive the Legislature’s review of your Recommended Budget. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress
03.16.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio released the following statement on President Trump’s FY2018 Budget Blueprint: “President Trump’s budget promotes wrong-headed priorities and completely abandons middle class families. By endorsing cuts to critical programs, the president has shown yet again that he is putting the wrong priorities first. For instance, the president’s suggested massive cuts to the National Institutes Health will slow or stop lifesaving research that could cure or prevent disease. Critical programs like Meals on Wheels, Youth Corps, and Seniors Corps—a program that I brought to Lane County in 1977 that donates millions of hours of service to help those in need—would be eliminated entirely to make way for wasteful, unnecessary spending that purports to protect national security, showering money on an already-bloated Pentagon and a wall along the Mexican border. In reality, this budget actually makes us less safe, with massive cuts to the Department of State and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “The cuts laid out in this budget dismantle domestic programs that contribute to the daily quality of life for millions of Americans. But you won’t hear about it on National Public Radio—their budget was zeroed out.”
03.06.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s updated Executive Order on immigration: “Although the Trump Administration has presented this latest iteration of their irresponsible and unconstitutional Executive Order as something new, it remains the same as before: discriminatory, unfair, and in complete opposition to the ideals our nation was founded upon. Instead of protecting our nation from terrorist attacks, this ban will provoke our enemies while doing nothing to stop any threat against our nation. The worst terrorist attacks on our nation’s soil, including the September 11, 2001 attacks, were carried out by radicals from countries excluded from this ban. None of the procedures put into place by this Executive Order would have prevented any of these attacks. “I will continue to stand in opposition to this dangerous travel ban and will work with my colleagues to find solutions that will actually keep our nation safe.”
03.03.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) yesterday introduced legislation, H.R. 1307, that would establish a public health insurance option in the national health insurance market. “On Tuesday, night, we heard President Trump pledge to ‘create a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring costs way down’” said Rep. DeFazio (OR-4). “Establishing a public option to compete against the private industry and give consumers more options in the market will do just that. In light of the Republicans’ push to repeal the Affordable Care Act, my legislation would create a government-run program to provide consumers another choice when shopping for affordable, accessible health care coverage.” When the Affordable Care Act was being drafted, Rep. DeFazio fought to include a government-run insurance option to compete alongside private insurance companies. Unfortunately Republicans in the Senate blocked this provision, and it was stripped out of the bill before final passage. A public option would allow individuals to buy a federal health care plan just as they purchase a plan from a private insurance company. This is especially important in rural areas, where many have only one insurer available. Adding a government-run insurance option would increase competition in the health insurance marketplace and drive down costs. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the inclusion of a public option administered by the federal government in the health insurance market would reduce premiums for consumers by as much as eight percent. # # #
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “It has been evident for some time that further investigation into the involvement of the Russian government in our presidential election is necessary,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04). “Now it appears that our nation’s chief law enforcement officer has perjured himself during his confirmation hearing. At the very minimum, this sets a poor example, and at worst, this points to criminal behavior. Congress must appoint a special prosecutor to investigate any and all contacts between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government. I am pleased that Attorney General Sessions has said he will recuse himself from any inquiry into these connections, but this alone is not adequate: we must do an independent investigation of these disturbing allegations.”
02.28.2017	Pushing back against President Trump’s promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Congressman Peter DeFazio will leave his guest’s seat empty at tonight’s Joint Session of Congress to represent one of his constituents who will die or go bankrupt due to a health crisis if the law is repealed. Traditionally, members of Congress are provided an extra ticket for a guest to attend a Joint Session of Congress. After hearing from a record number of constituents who fear the law will be repealed under President Trump, Rep. DeFazio decided to leave his guest’s seat empty to symbolize an Oregonian who will die or go bankrupt without the Affordable Care Act. “The response from supporters of the Affordable Care Act since President Trump’s inauguration has been tremendous,” said Rep. DeFazio. “I have heard from far too many constituents who say the same thing: ‘If the Affordable Care Act is repealed, I will not survive.’ Scores of Oregonians are afraid that they will lose their healthcare and go bankrupt trying to pay for medical care they desperately need to survive. These very legitimate fears are why I’ve decided my guest’s seat will remain empty tonight: to represent a constituent that would be left behind if the GOP carries out their reckless repeal of the ACA.” In lieu of bringing a guest to tonight’s address, this week Rep. DeFazio will highlight stories from several constituents who have been impacted by the Affordable Care Act. Nearly 27,000 people in Oregon’s 4th congressional district are enrolled in the healthcare marketplace and risk losing their healthcare coverage if the Affordable Care Act is repealed. The ACA’s Medicaid expansion provided coverage to an additional 88,000 individuals in the district who stand to lose coverage if the law is repealed.
02.28.2017	Today, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure passed legislation introduced by Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) that could provide critical funding for an earthquake early warning system off the Pacific Northwest coast. This critical early warning system could save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. “We have known about the threat posed by the Cascadia Subduction Zone for decades, and yet we have failed to prepare and protect our coastline from a catastrophic earthquake. My common sense legislation is simple—it forces the federal government to get serious and install a critical system that could save thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage. I applaud my colleagues for taking this threat seriously and working with me to prepare and protect our coastal communities,” said DeFazio. See video of Ranking Member’s DeFazio’s speech supporting the legislation here. DeFazio’s legislation would require FEMA to develop a plan and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. It also clarifies that FEMA may use hazard mitigation funds to improve the earthquake early warning system. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, manufacturing lines, close bridges, and protect students in unsafe schools. It can help reduce the long-term economic losses that are often excluded from damage estimates. A warning can have significant impact by alerting citizens of the need to take appropriate action when an earthquake occurs. It also directs the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate our coastlines. “Cascadia poses a unique threat," said University of Oregon Earth Sciences Professor Doug Toomey. "'Congressman DeFazio's legislation recognizes that the "Sleeping Giant" requires an offshore/onshore monitoring system like the one Japan has developed. It would give scientists and the public necessary information that will make us safer and more resilient." The University of Oregon, along with the University of Washington and US Geological Survey, operates the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, one of three seismic networks that make up the backbone of the onshore west coast earthquake early warning system. To watch Ranking Member DeFazio’s speech in support of the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND Oregon’s greatest risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” every 300 years or so causing major earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January 26, 2017 marked the 317th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake. Experts agree that Oregon is due for another major earthquake. Some forecasts suggest there is a ten to twenty percent chance of a magnitude 9 quake on the CSZ in the next fifty years, while others predict a twenty-five to forty percent chance of a major quake on the south end of the CSZ in the next fifty years. Last year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. That legislation included language proposed by DeFazio to require the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force to develop a strategy and make recommendations on how to prepare for and respond to an earthquake in the CSZ. It also included a provision DeFazio sponsored to clarify that building a capability for an earthquake early warning system is an eligible use of FEMA’s hazard mitigation funding. The Senate did not consider H.R. 1471. --30-
02.28.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s address to Congress: “Tonight we heard a lot from President Trump about the many promises he has made to the American people—promises that he has yet to make good on. “In his speech, President Trump declared that we need to provide affordable healthcare choices for all Americans. His promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) with no viable replacement would do the exact opposite of that: it would strip hundreds of thousands of Oregonians of their healthcare coverage and leave them vulnerable to the worst abuses of the insurance industry. I have never said that the ACA was a perfect law, but a total rollback of its protections is not the solution. “Instead of bringing a guest tonight, I left my extra seat empty to represent a constituent who will die, or go bankrupt due to a healthcare crisis, if the ACA is repealed without a robust replacement. Countless Americans go to bed at night fearful they will wake up to that scenario as a reality. It is our duty in Congress to stop that nightmare from coming true and improve the ACA – not do away with it entirely. “Thanks to the efforts of progressives in Congress, labor groups, activists, and dwindling public support, the Trans-Pacific Partnership—a massive multi-national trade deal that would have permanently devastated the American manufacturing economy and shipped thousands of jobs overseas—was defeated last fall. Tonight, we heard President Trump take credit for that defeat and promise a new path forward for America’s trade policy. “Prior to taking office, President Trump repeatedly promised to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the disastrous trade deal that has decimated American manufacturing and sent hundreds of thousands of middle-class jobs overseas, within his first hundred days in office. As of January 31, the President has missed the deadline to notify Congress of his intent to renegotiate the trade deal within his promised timeline. “I agree we need to significantly change our nation’s trade policies and do away with the failed legacy of NAFTA. However, any new trade deal must protect not only our workers but our environment, consumer safety, and U.S. sovereignty. It is not enough to simply renegotiate NAFTA: we must replace the deal with one that truly works for all Americans. I have introduced a resolution, the Blueprint for America’s New Trade Policy, that outlines the most essential principles that must be included in such a deal in order to help our nation’s middle class succeed and thrive. “I have long advocated for increased investment in the nation’s roads, bridges, and transit systems, and President Trump has repeatedly said that he wants to invest in infrastructure and that he supports Buy America. He briefly reiterated those talking points again tonight. And yet again, the President failed to provide any real information about what his plan looks like, and more importantly how he pays for it. It’s easy to say you are for infrastructure investments—it’s a lot harder to offer real ways to pay for these critical investments. “Earlier this month, I sent President Trump three legislative ideas that would invest in our crumbling infrastructure. These Investing in America proposals will rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges, and transit systems, modernize our aging airport infrastructure, and boost funding to address coastal and inland harbors. These proposals are fully paid for, and would not increase the deficit by one penny. “We have an opportunity to make some badly needed investments in our nation’s infrastructure that we have been avoiding for decades, but it is going to require hard work and bipartisan cooperation. I hope that the President considers my serious proposals, so that we can build a modern transportation system that creates and sustains family-wage jobs, boosts American manufacturing, and keeps us competitive in the world economy.” # # #
02.16.2017	Congressman Peter DeFazio and Senator Bernie Sanders today introduced joint legislation, the Social Security Expansion Act, to strengthen the Social Security program for future generations on the day that millionaires stop paying into Social Security. “Millions of Americans—including hundreds of thousands of Oregonians—depend on the earned benefit of Social Security as their livelihood, yet congressional Republicans continue to play games with its funding,” said Rep. DeFazio (D-OR). “This legislation will protect this vital program from future attempts to dismantle it while expanding benefits to better meet the needs of our nation’s seniors.” Today, February 16th marks the day that millionaires stop paying into Social Security. Social Security provides the majority of income to two-thirds of the United States’ retirees and provides financial security to millions of disabled workers and their children. Alarmingly, current projections show the Social Security trust fund falling short of funds to pay full benefits after 2034. The Sanders-DeFazio bill would close a tax loophole so that earned income over $250,000 is subject to the Social Security payroll tax. Under current law, the amount of income subject to the payroll tax is capped at $127,000, which means the wealthiest 6 percent of Americans do not pay the same taxes as the rest of the population. According to the Center for Economic Policy Research, subjecting all income over $250,000 to the Social Security payroll tax would impact only an estimated top 1.5 percent of wage earners. The Social Security Expansion Act would also modify how the Social Security Administration calculates cost-of-living-adjustments for seniors by replacing the current COLA formula, which is based on the price index of goods the average consumer purchases (such as technology, groceries, and childcare), with a new Consumer Price Index for the Elderly (CPI-E) to factor in costs seniors traditionally face such as prescription drugs, utility bills and property taxes. In addition, the bill would: Increase benefits for Social Security recipients by an estimated $65 a month; Improve the Special Minimum Benefit by making it easier for low-income workers to qualify for benefits and increasing the benefit level; Apply a 6.2 percent Social Security tax on investment income for high-income households, collecting more revenue for the program. If enacted, the Social Security Expansion Act will provide a critical expansion of benefits and extend the solvency of Social Security for more than 60 years, past 2078. # # #
02.16.2017	Supported by labor groups, trade stakeholders, and environmental groups, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced a resolution that lays out the principles that must be included in any replacement of the disastrous North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “For the first time in nearly a quarter-century, we have an opportunity to replace NAFTA and build a fair trade policy that works for all Americans,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “After working with labor stakeholders and fair trade advocates, we have come up with principles that will serve as the foundation of a sustainable trade policy that will bring jobs back to the U.S. while protecting America’s environment, workers, consumers, and sovereignty.” “Rep. DeFazio’s NAFTA resolution provides a roadmap for the USTR and the administration to follow if they truly want to fix this broken trade agreement,” said Teamsters General President Jim Hoffa. “Free trade agreements like NAFTA have undermined our manufacturing industry for decades, sending millions of jobs overseas. It is long past time to negotiate fair trade agreements that protect working families and provide good jobs here in America.” “As we’ve said all along in regards to renegotiating NAFTA, ‘the devil’s in the details,’ said AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka. “The blueprint being laid out today puts working people first. It promotes trade policies that create jobs, raise wages, breathe life into our communities and expand the American Dream. We are ready to move forward with a new direction on trade and this is just the beginning.” The resolution has been endorsed by: AFL-CIO, Teamsters, United Steelworkers (USW), International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW), Communications Workers of America (CWA), Public Citizen, and Citizens Trade Campaign. The principles laid out in Rep. DeFazio’s resolution, called the Blueprint for America’s Future Trade Policy, direct that any NAFTA replacement deal negotiated by President Trump must: Require Strong Labor & Environmental Standards—and Ensure They are Enforced Add Strict, Enforceable Disciplines to Fight Against Currency Manipulation Eliminate Procurement Provisions that Undermine Buy America Require Imports and Foreign Companies Operating in the U.S. to Adhere to U.S. Laws Lower the Cost of Prescription Drugs End Tribunals that Undermine U.S. Trade Enforcement Laws, Such as NAFTA’s Chapter 19 Require Foreign Operators to Comply with U.S. Transportation Laws Require Strong Rules of Origin on Cars, Auto Parts, and Other Manufactured Goods Eliminate the Dangerous ISDS Provision that Undermines U.S. Sovereignty Protect U.S. Energy Policy The resolution directs President Trump to initiate the renegotiation of NAFTA no later than June 1, 2017. All of the provisions included in the resolution must be agreed to by Mexico, Canada, and the U.S. before the agreement can be approved. If negotiations are not completed and all the provisions outlined in the resolution agreed to within one year of beginning talks, the resolution directs the President to consider withdrawing the U.S. from NAFTA.
02.15.2017	Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) today introduced a resolution supporting the inclusion of a public health insurance option in the American health insurance market, H. Res. 130. “As President Trump and Congressional Republicans look to gut the Affordable Care Act, it’s important to consider alternatives to the traditional model of healthcare,” said Rep. DeFazio (OR-4). “We cannot go back to the way things used to be when insurance companies were allowed to grossly abuse consumers. It’s time to build upon the progress made by the ACA and finally provide Americans a choice outside of the private insurance market.” “The Affordable Care Act has made incredible progress towards its goals of increasing access to healthcare and lowering costs for millions of Americans,” said Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02). “However, there remains room for improvement, especially in the ACA marketplaces, which face financial instability and a lack of competition. A public health insurance option would improve the ACA marketplaces by injecting an affordable insurance option for consumers and increasing competition. I am proud to join Rep. Defazio in this effort to increase choice for consumers, decrease the deficit, and lower premiums.” According to the Congressional Budget Office, the inclusion of a public option administered by the federal government in the health insurance market would reduce premiums for consumers by as much as eight percent. A public option would also increase competition in the marketplace, preventing private insurers from artificially inflating their prices. Rep. DeFazio was a key supporter of the public option in 2010 during the debate of the Affordable Care Act. The original health care reform bill included Rep. DeFazio’s provision that would create a government-run health insurance option to compete alongside private insurance companies. It was eventually stripped out of the bill before final passage. # # #
02.15.2017	Following reports that President Trump is considering sending U.S. ground forces into Northern Syria, Congressman Peter DeFazio today introduced the War Powers Amendments of 2017, legislation that clarifies under the Constitution that President Trump must seek congressional authorization prior to sending U.S. troops into combat. The legislation would also require any future president to consult with Congress before sending forces into conflicts. “If President Trump sends troops to Syria without asking for authorization from Congress, it would stretch far beyond his authority,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR). “I criticized Presidents Bush and Obama for overstepping their constitutional authority in committing troops to the Middle East without congressional approval—If President Trump makes the same mistakes, I will offer him the same criticism. My legislation would ensure that Congress receives a detailed and definite scope of any military campaign put forth by President Trump before granting the use of any force.” The bill provides the President an exception in the case of an immediate threat to the United States, its troops, or its citizens overseas. In addition, it would give any member of Congress the right to sue the Executive Branch if it does not comply with the bill’s provisions. After the Vietnam War and President Nixon’s unauthorized bombing campaign in Cambodia, Congress passed a War Powers resolution in an attempt to curb the President’s powers in committing U.S. forces to armed conflict. However, that legislation was weak and allowed a president to act before coming to Congress for authority. In addition, it did not allow Members of Congress any legal recourse to enforce the War Powers Act. Although the U.S. Constitution grants Congress, not the executive branch, the power to declare war, the war powers of the legislative branch have eroded over time. For the last fifty years, the office of the President has broadly exercised authority to commit U.S. forces to armed conflict overseas. A recognized public watchdog of Congress’s power to declare war, Rep. DeFazio has repeatedly introduced similar legislation throughout his tenure in Congress. To view Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on the War Powers Amendments of 2017, click here.
02.03.2017	Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today cut through bureaucratic red tape in the Trump Administration and helped to secure an increased catch limit for groundfish species caught in the Pacific Northwest Region. Every two years, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) sets a biennial catch limit for several groundfish species, such as canary and widow rockfish, caught in the Pacific Northwest region. Because of overfishing, the industry had not had access to healthy rockfish markets in decades. Thanks to the efforts of Oregon fishers, the population has been rebuilt. Due to the recovery of the species, NOAA’s National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) substantially increased the catch limits for the 2017-2018 season. Unfortunately, NMFS did not finalize the implementation prior to January 1, 2017. When President Trump took office, he instituted a 90-day freeze on all new federal regulations made after January 1, suspending the groundfish catch limit at the lower 2015-2016 levels. Congressman DeFazio intervened with the Trump Administration and urged them to provide a waiver exempting the catch limit from the regulatory freeze. As a result of his efforts, after the Federal Register is published next week, groundfish fishermen in Oregon will immediately be able to fish at the higher 2017-2018 catch limit. “Unfortunately, Oregon’s fishermen got caught in the Trump Administration’s blanket regulatory freeze, so I jumped in,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “I’m happy that the White House provided an exception so we could help a critical industry in the Pacific Northwest.”
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today released the following statement on President Trump's executive order on immigration: This weekend, President Trump issued an ill-conceived and unlawful executive order that grossly missed its mark in an apparent attempt to strengthen our national security. Instead, it sends a message that Muslims are not welcome in America, alienates our allies and serves as a recruiting tool for ISIS and other terrorists groups, ultimately making America less secure. The executive order uses false rhetoric and preys upon Americans' fears without doing anything to address the real terrorist threats facing our nation. Instead, it resulted in the detention of a 77-year-old grandmother planning to visit her family in Texas, an Iraqi translator who risked his life to work for the U.S. Army and two doctors working at the Cleveland Clinic, just to name a few. The current refugee vetting process is already one of the most thorough screening processes for foreign visitors. This executive order does nothing to strengthen America’s national security, and instead has given the U.S. a black eye in the international community. The worst terrorist attack on our nation, 9/11, was carried out by radicals from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Lebanon and the UAE. The attacks in San Bernardino were carried out by a Pakistani terrorist and an American-born terrorist. None of the procedures put in place by this executive order would have prevented any of these attacks. This irresponsible order puts our nation at risk and stands in opposition to the ideals that our country was founded upon. It’s clear to me that my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle will need to work together to restrain President Trump from inflicting more damage to our country. I am joining my colleagues today to introduce the “Statue of Liberty Values Act” (SOLVe) which nullifies the executive order. The legislation states that it will have no effect or force of law and states that no funds or fees shall be used to implement the order. # # #
01.25.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today sent a letter to President Trump urging him to file a trade dispute with the World Trade Organization (WTO) against the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) for manipulating oil production. For decades, OPEC has consistently manipulated the supply and price of oil, colluding to establish production levels in order to control prices in the world market. For the past twenty years Rep. DeFazio has asked the sitting President to bring a WTO dispute against OPEC member nations for these manipulations. “I share President Trump’s commitment to strengthening America’s position in the global economy by negotiating fairer trade deals,” said Rep. DeFazio. “By challenging the OPEC’s unfair collusion to manipulate oil production, President Trump has an opportunity to not only make good on his campaign promises, but break from the tradition of previous presidents and take a stand on a critical trade issue that costs the U.S. economy billions of dollars. I am urging the Trump administration to stand up for American consumers and businesses that are being gouged by OPEC.” OPEC’s most recent collusion occurred in November 2016, where OPEC and non-OPEC nations agreed to decrease production by 1.8 million barrels per day, effective January 1, 2017, in order to keep the price of oil at artificially high levels. Since that meeting, the countries have made significant progress in limiting output, already having reduced production by 1.5 million barrels per day. Under Article XI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), member countries are prohibited from using anything other than “duties, taxes or other charges,” to limit imports or exports across their borders. Oil production quotas clearly violate this statute. The text of the letter to President Trump is below: The Honorable Donald J. Trump President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: I commend you and your administration for your commitment to improving and renegotiating unfair trade agreements, including rules required under membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO). Since 2009, twenty-three complaints have been filed by the United States at the WTO. During that time the United States has won every dispute that has been decided. The United States successfully challenged cases such as illegal Chinese taxes on steel, EU subsidies to Airbus, China’s illegal taxes on autos and SUVs, and India’s illegal ban on U.S. poultry. However, President Obama, like every other president I have asked over the past 20 years, failed to bring a WTO dispute against members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) for manipulating the supply and price of oil at the expense of U.S. consumers and our economy. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, gasoline prices have risen 12 cents per gallon since December 5, 2016, and as OPEC continues to cut production gas prices could rise further. That is why I write to you with urgency and request that you stand up for American workers and consumers by initiating a WTO dispute. OPEC has willfully violated WTO rules for decades. The cartel has and does collude to establish production levels to limit global support and maintain artificially high prices. Most recently, during the November 2016 OPEC meeting in Vienna, OPEC and non-OPEC nations agreed to decrease production by 1.8 million barrels per day, effective January 1, 2017, in order to keep the price of oil at artificially high levels and undermine America’s rebounding economy. On January 22, 2017, the Joint OPEC-Non-OPEC Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC) had its inaugural meeting Vienna. The JMMC is tasked with ensuring output reduction targets set during the November 2016 meeting are met. The Committee found that countries have made strong progress in limiting output, already having reduced production by 1.5 million barrels per day. The U.S. does not have to sit idly by while OPEC manipulates the supply and price of oil. The U.S. can and should bring a dispute to the WTO against members of OPEC for illegal market manipulation and price fixing. I urge you to continue the momentum you have built with the American people in protecting American jobs by filing a WTO complaint against OPEC for violating the General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions, otherwise known as Article XI of the original General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). I believe there is a strong legal basis for the U.S. to pursue this trade complaint. The article states: “No prohibitions or restrictions other than duties, taxes or other charges, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licenses or other measures, shall be instituted or maintained by any contracting party on the importation of any product of the territory of any other contracting party or on the exportation or sale for export of any product destined for the territory of any other contracting party.” [emphasis added] In other words, colluding to set production levels violate WTO rules, specifically Article XI. And this is precisely the purpose of OPEC. The precise meaning of this provision is fleshed out in a 1988 GATT Panel Report on “Japan - Trade in Semi-conductors.” The Panel noted: “...this wording (in Article XI) was comprehensive: it applied to all measures instituted or maintained by a contracting party prohibiting or restricting the importation, exportation or sale for export of products other than measures that take the form of duties, taxes, or other charges. This wording indicated clearly that any measure instituted or maintained by a contracting party which restricted the exportation or sale for export of products was covered by this provision, irrespective of the legal status of the measure.” The 1988 GATT panel report clarifies that only duties, taxes or other charges are allowable, not pacts among countries to limit production of a product for export. The oil production quotas devised by OPEC clearly qualify as a “quantitative restriction.” Finally, I bring your attention to Article XX, which sets out a series of broad exceptions to Article XI. Article XX notes that none of the exceptions are valid if they are “applied in a manner which would constitute... a disguised restriction on international trade." Therefore, the broad exception in Article XX that allows restrictions for the "conservation of exhaustible natural resources" would not protect OPEC's market manipulation because OPEC is not restricting oil production due to conservation concerns or to preserve an exhaustible supply. Rather, OPEC is restricting supply solely in order to influence world oil prices which clearly qualifies as a "disguised restriction on international trade." Of the thirteen OPEC countries, nine are members of the WTO (Angola, Ecuador, Gabon, Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Venezuela). Therefore, filing a case could have a widespread impact. It is no secret that you and I share strong reservations about the WTO. However, as long as we are a member, we should use its rules to benefit U.S. consumers and companies. Mr. President, given your administration’s commitment to enforcing trade laws and your personal commitment to protecting American consumers, jobs and industries, I respectfully ask that you order the U.S. Trade Representative to file a WTO complaint against OPEC member countries. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress # # #
01.25.2017	Yesterday, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation to help fund an earthquake early warning system that could save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. DeFazio’s bill, the “Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2017,” was introduced in advance of the 317th anniversary of the last major Cascadia Subduction Zone (CSZ) earthquake which will occur on January 26, 2017. “Tomorrow, we will mark the 317th anniversary of the last major earthquake along the Cascadia Subduction Zone. If an earthquake of a similar magnitude hit today, the State of Oregon estimates that thousands will be killed or injured and Oregon will suffer $32 billion in economic damages. My legislation directs FEMA to identify critical funding to purchase and install an earthquake early warning system that could save thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage. It also directs the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate our coastlines. We must take the threat of a catastrophic earthquake seriously, and this legislation is a good first step,” said DeFazio. DeFazio’s legislation would require FEMA to develop a plan, and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. It also clarifies that FEMA may use hazard mitigation funds to improve the earthquake early warning system. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, manufacturing lines, close bridges, and protect students in unsafe schools. It can help reduce the long-term economic losses that are often excluded from damage estimates. A warning can have significant impact by alerting citizens of the need to take appropriate action when an earthquake occurs. “Cascadia poses a unique threat," said University of Oregon Earth Sciences Professor Doug Toomey. "'Congressman DeFazio's legislation recognizes that the "Sleeping Giant" requires an offshore/onshore monitoring system like the one Japan has developed. It would give scientists and the public necessary information that will make us safer and more resilient." The University of Oregon, along with the University of Washington and US Geological Survey, operates the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, one of three seismic networks that make up the backbone of the onshore west coast earthquake early warning system. BACKGROUND Oregon’s greatest risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” every 300 years or so causing major earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January 26, 2017 marks the 317th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake. Experts agree that Oregon is due for another major earthquake. Some forecasts suggest there is a ten to twenty percent chance of a magnitude 9 quake on the CSZ in the next fifty years, while others predict a twenty-five to forty percent chance of a major quake on the south end of the CSZ in the next fifty years. Last year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. That legislation included language proposed by DeFazio to require the President to establish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force to develop a strategy and make recommendations on how to prepare for and respond to an earthquake in the CSZ. It also included a provision DeFazio sponsored to clarify that building a capability for an earthquake early warning system is an eligible use of FEMA’s hazard mitigation funding. H.R. 1471 was not considered by the Senate. --30--
01.24.2017	Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) today reintroduced the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, H.R. 617, which repeals the antiquated exemption that allows the health insurance industry to operate beyond the reach of federal antitrust laws. The McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 exempts the health insurance industry from federal antitrust laws that promote fair competition. Bolstered by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), states have the power to regulate antitrust behaviors by the health insurance industry. Under President Trump’s proposed repeal of the ACA, those regulations would likely be loosened, making it easier for insurance companies to engage in anti-competitive behavior and raise premiums. “Whatever the eventual ACA replacement looks like—if Republicans ever come up with one—we must ensure that consumer protections are in place to guard against the worst of the insurance industry’s abuses,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The Republican solution to those problems is to simply trust that free market competition will take care of the worst of these bad actors. However, there can be no competition in the health insurance market without eliminating this antiquated provision. The best way to protect consumers and to ensure fair competition is to end this out-of-date, unfair exemption from antitrust laws.” “The pledge from Republican leaders in Congress and the president to repeal the Affordable Care Act will reverse years of progress in health care and drive up costs for consumers at rates that could make coverage unaffordable. That’s why introducing this legislation today is so important. Preventing health care companies from colluding to drive up prices and limit competition will slow down what could be especially exorbitant rate increases for many constituents in the years ahead if Republicans repeal the Affordable Care Act. It’s time to finally make the health care industry follow antitrust laws so Fortune 500 companies and well-paid CEO’s no longer receive special treatment. It’s good policy, and given the Republican agenda, especially important for consumers,” said Rep. Louise Slaughter. While ending the McCarran-Ferguson Act would prohibit collusion by insurance companies on pricing, H.R. 617 also includes a provision that would allow health insurers to continue to share historical loss data. Such data includes peril, risk and hazard information as well as payout information to develop more accurate premium rate models. By protecting the right of the insurers to share this data, small insurers will get access to such information and will be less likely to be priced out of the market. To watch Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on H.R. 617, click here. Background: The McCarran-Ferguson Act, passed in 1945, exempts the business of insurance from the federal antitrust laws that promote fair competition. The only other industry exempt from antitrust laws is Major League Baseball. The Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act would repeal the exemption and give the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission the authority to apply antitrust laws to anticompetitive behavior by insurance companies. This Act would not affect the ability of each state to regulate the business of insurance. Similar legislation passed the House of Representatives in 2010 with overwhelming bipartisan support in a vote of 406-19.
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership: “Thanks to the tireless efforts of progressives in Congress, labor groups, activists, and dwindling public support, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) failed last year. The TPP would have been the last, biggest, worst trade deal in history. “I’m pleased with the President’s formal action today. I hope this executive order is an indication that President Trump is committed to rewriting our nation’s disastrous trade policy, so it supports middle class families and keeps jobs here at home in the United States. The next big hurdle for the President will be to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the so-called “free” trade policy that devastated the U.S. manufacturing industry and shifted millions of good-paying jobs out of the United States. “To be successful a new NAFTA trade policy should meet the priorities under my 21st Century Worker’s Bill of Rights , including: Eliminating incentives to send jobs overseas; Eliminating the dangerous ISDS provisions that undermine U.S. sovereignty; Ending the race to the bottom by requiring strong, enforceable labor & environmental standards; Adding strict, enforceable disciplines to fight currency manipulation; Requiring strong rules of origin on cars, auto parts and other manufactured goods; Eliminating procurement provisions that undermine Buy American; and Eliminate tribunals that undermine U.S. trade enforcement laws, such as NAFTA Chapter 19 “I’m hopeful that the Trump Administration will adhere to these principles and provide a new trade policy that works for all Americans.” # # #
01.23.2017	Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Reps. Gerry Connolly and André Carson sent a letter requesting information regarding how the General Services Administration (GSA) is addressing President Donald Trump’s apparent breach of the Old Post Office lease agreement. “Two key events have occurred that now bring this issue to a head: President-elect Trump announced during his nationally televised press conference on January 11 that he refuses to divest his ownership interests in his companies, and he took the oath of office on January 20 to be sworn in as President,” the Members wrote. “As a result, President Trump is in apparent breach of the lease with the Federal Government for his hotel in Washington, DC.” “We have been raising concerns about this issue for months, and we understand that GSA raised our concerns with the Trump transition team directly several weeks ago,” they added. “Our hope has always been that President Trump would resolve these breach-of-lease and conflict of interest issues prior to being sworn in as President on January 20. Unfortunately, President Trump has refused to address these concerns, and taxpayer dollars may now be squandered as career public servants are forced to take remedial action to cure this breach.” Documents obtained by the Members confirm that President Trump retains a majority ownership interest in the lease, along with his daughter Ivanka Trump, and his sons Donald Jr. and Eric Trump. The documents also indicate that President Trump’s company reported receiving $1.1 million less in revenue than its own officials projected in the first two months operating the hotel, but the documents do not explain why income levels were so far below the company’s own projections. Click here and see below to read today’s letter. January 23, 2017 Mr. Timothy Horne Acting Administrator U.S. General Services Administration 1800 F Street, NW Washington, DC 20405 Dear Acting Administrator Horne: We write to request specific information regarding how the General Services Administration (GSA) is addressing President Donald Trump’s apparent breach of the Old Post Office lease agreement his company entered into with the U.S. Government for the Trump International Hotel in Washington, DC. Article 37.19 of the lease agreement provides: No member or delegate to Congress, or elected official of the Government of the United States or the Government of the District of Columbia, shall be admitted to any share or part of this Lease, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom… Documents produced by GSA on January 3, 2017, pursuant to the statutory Seven Member Rule confirm that President Trump has a majority ownership interest in the lease. The enclosed chart sets forth the business structure of the Trump Old Post Office LLC and the specific ownership interests of President Trump, his daughter Ivanka Trump, and his sons Donald Jr. and Eric Trump. On December 8, 2016, GSA’s Deputy Commissioner of Public Building Services briefed our staffs on the steps that career contracting officials at GSA would take if a breach occurred. The Deputy Commissioner confirmed repeatedly that Article 37.19 is a categorical ban on any elected official being a party to this lease or taking any financial benefit from it. He explained that this provision is a standard clause that is included in many GSA leases to create a “level playing field” and protect the interests of the American people. The Deputy Commissioner also explained that GSA disagreed with an alternative interpretation by a former procurement official who suggested that this provision theoretically could be interpreted to ban only officials who were elected at the time the lease was signed, but not those who are elected afterwards. The Deputy Commissioner confirmed that GSA’s position is that this provision applies to all elected officials, regardless of when they are elected. The Deputy Commissioner explained that when a GSA contracting official determines that a breach has occurred, he or she would send a letter to the tenant providing the tenant 30 days to remedy the breach. This process is outlined in Article 27.1(b)(ii) of the lease, which provides how the tenant must cure the breach within 30 days after being notified. According to the Deputy Commissioner, if the breach is not resolved satisfactorily within this timeframe, the GSA contracting official would normally bring the matter before the U.S. Civilian Board of Contract Appeals. During the briefing, when our staffs asked about the possibility that an incoming political appointee of the Trump administration may attempt to reverse GSA’s legal interpretation of this provision or simply remove the provision from the lease itself, the Deputy Commissioner assured our staffs that GSA contracting officials are independent, base their decisions on the laws and regulations governing the contracts they oversee, and would not change their positions based on inappropriate political influence. Soon after this briefing, then-President-elect Trump postponed a press conference during which he planned to address questions regarding his many conflicts of interest. At that time, GSA issued a public statement that “no determination regarding the Old Post Office can be completed until the full circumstances surrounding the President-elect’s business arrangements have been finalized and he has assumed office.” Two key events have occurred that now bring this issue to a head: President-elect Trump announced during his nationally televised press conference on January 11 that he refuses to divest his ownership interests in his companies, and he took the oath of office on January 20 to be sworn in as President. As a result, President Trump is in apparent breach of the lease with the Federal Government for his hotel in Washington, DC. In addition, the documents produced by GSA indicate that President Trump’s company has reported receiving millions of dollars less in revenue than its own officials projected in the first two months operating the hotel. In fact, President Trump’s company reported losses totaling more than $1.1 million in those two months alone. The documents explain that the hotel opening on September 12, 2017, was a “soft opening,” but they do not explain why income levels were so far below the company’s own projections. The documents do state that the “average daily rate” the hotel commanded during this period was “below budgeted expectations.” The documents include monthly reports only for September and October, and it is possible that subsequent months drew more business and higher income levels. The possibility that President Trump will profit from large increases in hotel revenues because he was elected President highlights the grave concerns we have raised for months about his conflicts of interest and potential violations of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution. Finally, there have been multiple reports of liens filed against President Trump’s company totaling more than $5 million as a result of non-payment to contractors. Article 10.1 of the lease requires his company to notify GSA about the existence and cause of all liens on the property, and it gives GSA the authority to resolve liens and be reimbursed by the President’s company for interest and reasonable costs and expenses associated with resolving them. For the reasons outlined above, we request a response to the following questions and requests for documents by February 6, 2017: We have been raising concerns about this issue for months, and we understand that GSA raised our concerns with the Trump transition team directly several weeks ago. Our hope has always been that President Trump would resolve these breach-of-lease and conflict of interest issues prior to being sworn in as President on January 20. Unfortunately, President Trump has refused to address these concerns, and taxpayer dollars may now be squandered as career public servants are forced to take remedial action to cure this breach. Thank you for your prompt cooperation with this matter. Sincerely, __________________________ __________________________ Elijah E. Cummings Peter A. DeFazio Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Oversight and Committee on Transportation and Government Reform Infrastructure __________________________ __________________________ Gerald E. Connolly André Carson Member of Congress Member of Congress Encl. cc: The Honorable Jason Chaffetz Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform The Honorable Bill Shuster Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure The Honorable Mark Meadows Member of Congress The Honorable Lou Barletta Member of Congress
01.17.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio today released the following statement on attending this week's inauguration ceremonies: “I feel that my time this week will be best spent at home in Oregon rather than attending the inauguration festivities. In the next few days, I will be in my community, meeting with my constituents and discussing their priorities for the year. I usually do not attend presidential inauguration ceremonies and do my best to avoid pomp and circumstance events in Washington, and this year will be no different. “In the 115th Congress, I will be prepared to work with President-elect Trump where we find common ground, but I also will not hesitate to fight back against the President-elect when necessary.”
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. DeFazio issued the following statement on the Republican's steps to dismantle the Affordable Care Act: "I have never said that the Affordable Care Act is a perfect law. While the bill was being drafted, I fought for the creation of national exchanges and a national not-for profit plan that I hoped would set the example for single-payer healthcare. I also advocated for other critical reforms, including eliminating the anti-trust immunity for the insurance industry and regulating pharmaceutical pricing. "Unfortunately, Republicans in the Senate blocked these improvements to the legislation, and in the next election, they took over the House. Since that time the Republicans have done nothing but vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act; in six years they have never offered a plan to replace or improve the existing system. "I think there is broad agreement that the law needs improvement to benefit more Americans. However, the path to meaningful improvement is through bipartisan compromise—not through a reckless, partisan process rushed by Republican leadership to dismantle the Affordable Care Act with zero proposals to replace it. This approach will ruthlessly strip healthcare coverage from more than 30 million Americans, including more than 475,000 Oregonians. "Before congressional Republicans take the Affordable Care Act to the chopping block, they need to remember the reasons we passed healthcare reform in the first place. Eight years ago, insurance companies had free reign to price-gouge consumers. Individuals with pre-existing conditions could be denied healthcare coverage. Insurance companies could refuse to renew your coverage policy if you got sick. Costs were skyrocketing and the consumer—not big insurance companies—were paying the price. The Affordable Care Act changed all that and provided protection and security to millions of Americans. Today, our nation’s uninsured rate is the lowest it has ever been. "If the Affordable Care Act were to be repealed immediately, we would lose those protections. More than half a million Oregonians included under the law’s Medicaid expansion would lose coverage, and Oregon would be at risk to lose $3.56 billion in federal Medicaid dollars. Approximately 28,000 young people who have been allowed to stay on their parents’ insurance plans until age 26 could lose their insurance. More than 50,000 children across our state who benefit from the Children’s Health Insurance Program would be at risk of having their health insurance rolled back. Insurance companies would no longer be required to provide free preventative care. Oregon seniors will be forced to pay more for prescription drugs. "The law needs improvement, but we cannot overlook the enormous benefits that the Affordable Care Act has provided tens of millions of Americans and hundreds of thousands of Oregonians. Improvements should be made in a deliberative and cooperative way. I urge my Republican colleagues not to rush the process to gain political points at the expense of families who depend on the Affordable Care Act."
01.13.2017	Rep. Peter DeFazio yesterday re-introduced legislation that would codify a campaign promise made by President-Elect Trump to ban political appointees from profiting from their time in the Administration after they leave. The DRAIN the SWAMP Act (Deter Revolving-Door Appointments in Our Nation; Stop Washington Appointees from becoming Manipulative Petitioners), H.R. 484, would ban anyone who serves as a political appointee from lobbying for five years after they leave the Executive Branch. The bill would also permanently bar any individual appointed to the Trump Administration from lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. “Donald Trump ran on a promise to make our government more honest and clean up Washington,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “My legislation will hold him and the thousands political appointees in his administration accountable to the high standards he promised the American people.” Although the President-Elect’s transition team announced an intended ban on appointees becoming lobbyists for five years after they leave the White House, there is no penalty for violating the provision unless it is codified by Congress. By law, current Administration appointees are barred from lobbying for as long as two years after they leave the Executive Branch, with a penalty of up to one year in prison and/or a fine of $50,000. Under Rep. DeFazio’s bill, if either the five-year lobbying ban or lifetime ban on lobbying for foreign nations is violated, offenders would face the same penalties as current law. In December, Rep. DeFazio sent a copy of his legislation to President-Elect Trump for his endorsement ahead of his swearing-in on January 20th.
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON—Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Jared Huffman (D-CA) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today secured a twenty-year ban on new mining projects in an ecologically and economically critical region in Southwest Oregon. The areas protected include the watershed of the National Wild and Scenic North Fork Smith River in Oregon, the watershed of Rough and Ready Creek (an eligible Wild and Scenic River and tributary to the National Wild and Scenic Illinois and Rogue rivers), as well as 17 miles of the National Wild and Scenic Chetco River. These rivers are known for their wild salmon and steelhead populations, and provide vital economic, recreational and natural resources to the area. Also protected from mining would be the headwaters of Hunter Creek and the Pistol River—two prized native salmon and steelhead rivers that flow directly into the Pacific Ocean along the spectacular Wild Rivers Coast of Southern Oregon and Northern California. “This is an incredible victory for Southwest Oregon,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-OR. “This mining ban will support the area’s recreation economy, safeguard safe drinking water sources for thousands of families in the area, and stop the threats of foreign-owned nickel mining companies who want to strip-mine this beautiful area. I’m proud to have helped to protect this unique land, and I thank my colleagues for their help in accomplishing this important goal.” "The people of Del Norte County, the Elk Valley and Tolowa Dee-ni' tribes, and thousands of other Californians and Oregonians who cherish the Smith River have united in working to secure two decades of protection for this spectacular landscape and its wildlife for future generations,” said Rep. Jared Huffman, D-CA. “I applaud the Obama Administration for taking this action today and thank my colleagues for their hard work and support." "I'm very pleased this unique landscape will be safeguarded for 20 years from future mining operations, protecting clean water, diverse ecosystems and recreation opportunities for Oregonians,” Senator Ron Wyden said. “With Oregonians’ overwhelming support for this action, I have been a long-time strong advocate for this approach because it provides Congress time to pass a bill that will permanently protect this special place." "The pristine waters of these Southwest Oregon rivers are a public treasure that we owe it to future generations to preserve,” said Senator Jeff Merkley. “Mining would have posed an unacceptable threat to the region's clean water and to the fishing and recreation economy that many rely on. These lands and waters belong to all of us, and today's news is a huge victory in the fight to ensure that our beloved citizen-owned resources are passed down to future generations in the same condition we received them."
01.11.2017	Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement after being unanimously re-elected the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: “I’m proud to be re-elected as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and look forward to continuing my efforts to improve Oregon’s economy through greater investment in our infrastructure, including highways and transit, ports, aviation, and water resources. “As Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I have demonstrated an ability to both work with my Republican counterparts on the Committee, and to aggressively fight for Democratic priorities. In the coming Congress, I will be prepared to work with the majority and the new administration where we find common ground. However, I will not hesitate to fight short-sighted proposals that seek to privatize our transportation systems, jeopardize American jobs and manufacturing, or gut critical regulations that protect our workers and communities. We must unite and work together to ensure our nation makes the necessary infrastructure investments to strengthen our economy, increase U.S. economic competitiveness, and improve the daily lives of our citizens.” BACKGROUND DeFazio has served as the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure since January 2015 and been a member of the Committee since he was elected in 1986. During his time on the Committee, he has served as Chairman or Ranking Member of four of the six subcommittees: Aviation, Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Highways and Transit, and Water Resources and Environment. DeFazio has taken a lead role on several multi-billion-dollar surface transportation and FAA reauthorization bills, and worked to strengthen safety and worker fairness standards, including Buy America. --30--
01.10.2017	Today, Rep. DeFazio joined members of the Oregon delegation in sending a letter to Assistant Secretary for the Army of Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy encouraging the Administration to use a portion of federal funds towards operations and maintenance projects at Oregon’s small ports. Representatives Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader, along with Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, urged the Administration to use additional funds appropriated by Congress in the Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2017 to ensure that Oregon’s small ports receive the dredging funds they need. Despite a continuing need for maintenance work, such as dredging, no funding was included in the President’s FY 2017 Budget for the Ports of Umpqua, Bandon, Garibaldi, Port Orford, or Depoe Bay. “Small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs. Commercial fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon coastal communities and to our state, region and nation. That’s why it is so important that funding to dredge these ports is included in the 2017 work plan,” the members write. A copy of the letter is included below. January 10, 2017 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Secretary Darcy: I request that, as you develop the fiscal year 2017 work plan for the Army Civil Works program through April 28, 2017, you maintain the President’s Budget request for the Ports of Siuslaw (Siuslaw River) and Brookings Harbor (Chetco River), and include additional critical operation and maintenance funding for six other small port projects in the State of Oregon: the Umpqua River project (Port of Umpqua), the Coquille River project (Port of Bandon), the Rogue River project (Port of Gold Beach), the Tillamook Bay and Harbor project (Port of Garibaldi), the Port Orford project, and the Depoe Bay project. On December 12, 2016, the President signed the Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2017 (Pub. L. 114-254) into law. This bill included approximately $1.79 billion for the Corps to carry out operation and maintenance needs, nationwide, including the operation and maintenance needs of small, commercial harbors, through April 28, 2017. While no explanatory statement was filed in coordination with this law, the House Report (Report No. 114-532) to accompany the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2017, identified $50 million in unallocated operation and maintenance funding reserved for work at small, remote, or subsistence navigation projects. I request that you allocate a portion of any undesignated operation and maintenance funding for these Oregon small port projects, and that their total capabilities are included in the final fiscal year 2017 work plan. As you know, funding for the Ports of Siuslaw, Umpqua, Bandon, Gold Beach, Brookings Harbor, Garibaldi, Port Orford, Toledo, and Depoe Bay was included in the fiscal year 2016 workplan. However, despite a continuing need for maintenance work at all of these facilities, no funding was included in the fiscal year 2017 President’s Budget for the Ports of Umpqua, Bandon, Garibaldi, Port Orford, or Depoe Bay. Based on conversations with the Portland District and local ports, I have been informed of additional Corps’ capability for these projects, as well as for the Port of Gold Beach (Rogue River) project, in fiscal year 2017, in the following amounts: Project Name Additional FY 2017 Capability Total FY 2017 Request Umpqua River (Port of Umpqua) $945,000 $945,000 Coquille River (Port of Bandon) $467,000 $467,000 Rogue River (Port of Gold Beach) $1,400,000 $2,073,000 Tillamook Bay and Harbor (Port of Garibaldi) $773,000 $773,000 Port of Port Orford, Breakwater Repair $5,000,000 $5,000,000 Depoe Bay $27,000 $27,000 Small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs. Commercial fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon coastal communities and to our state, region and nation. That’s why it is so important that funding to dredge these ports is included in the 2017 work plan. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ Peter DeFazio Ron Wyden Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on Finance U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Senate _____________________________ _____________________________ Jeff Merkley Kurt Schrader Member Member Committee on Environment and Public Works Committee on Energy and Commerce U.S. Senate U.S. House of Representatives
01.03.2017	In a press conference today led by Rep. Peter DeFazio and AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka, a coalition of congressmen and organizations called on President-elect Trump to begin renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) within his first hundred days of taking office. The group urged President-elect Trump to renegotiate the terms of the trade agreement so that they are more fair to working Americans and presented a “21st Century Workers’ Bill of Rights” containing the principles they want to see in any updated or future trade agreements. The principles in the “21st Century Workers’ Bill of Rights” include: Eliminating incentives to send jobs overseas; Eliminating the dangerous ISDS provisions that undermine U.S. sovereignty; Ending the race to the bottom by requiring strong, enforceable labor & environmental standards; Adding strict, enforceable disciplines to fight currency manipulation; Requiring strong rules of origin on cars, auto parts and other manufactured goods; Eliminating procurement provisions that undermine Buy American; and Eliminate tribunals that undermine U.S. trade enforcement laws, such as NAFTA Chapter 19 “More than twenty years ago, Americans were promised that NAFTA would strengthen the middle class, but the exact opposite has happened,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-OR. “NAFTA served as the model for subsequent bad trade deals and despite repeated promises to the contrary, so-called free trade agreements have shipped millions of American jobs overseas and devastated American manufacturing. During the campaign, President-elect Trump promised to reform American trade policy, but a promise is not enough— the benchmarks in the 21st Century Workers’ Bill of Rights are the measure of success to reform U.S. trade policy and strengthen America's working class.” “When it comes to bad trade deals, no agreement has a longer record of failure than NAFTA. The consequences we warned of two decades ago have all come true,” said AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka. “Jobs have vanished. Employers have held wages down. Entire communities have lost their purpose, their identity. NAFTA has been a political failure and a policy disaster. We are ready to fix it.” “It's all well and good that President-elect Trump says he won’t revive the TPP that already had no chance of passing Congress,” said Lori Wallach, Director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch, “but the real test will be whether he ends negotiations now underway for more TPP-style pacts – the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, the Trade in Services Agreement and the U.S.-China Bilateral Investment Treaty - and replaces NAFTA and other existing pacts with trade policies that put working people and healthy communities first.” Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. DeFazio has fought against unjust trade policies that put our consumer safety, environmental quality, and manufacturing jobs at risk. He has repeatedly pushed back against failed policies that have endangered Americans in the name of so called “free” trade.
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio today sent a letter to President-elect Trump’s transition team urging the incoming president to endorse the DRAIN the SWAMP Act, legislation that would codify a ban on political appointees from lobbying for five years after they leave his administration. The DRAIN the SWAMP Act (Deter Revolving-Door Appointments in Our Nation; Stop Washington Appointees from becoming Manipulative Petitioners), H.R. 6476, would require a five-year ban, barring anyone who serves as a political appointee from lobbying for five years after they leave the Executive Branch. The bill would also permanently bar any individual appointed to the Trump Administration from lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. “The American people elected Mr. Trump with the expectation that he would bring a new way of doing business to Washington,’” Rep. DeFazio wrote in the letter. “His lobby ban is a good start, and I would like to assist in his efforts. I am certain that if the president-elect endorsed my bill it would send a strong message to Congress that he takes the ethical standards of his administration seriously. With the weight of his endorsement, the House and Senate could pass the bill and have it ready for his signature on his first day in office.” Although the President-Elect’s transition team announced an intended ban on appointees becoming lobbyists for five years after they leave the White House, there is no penalty for violating the provision unless it is codified by Congress. By law, current Administration appointees are barred from lobbying for two years after they leave the Executive Branch, with a penalty of up to one year in prison and/or a fine of $50,000. Under Rep. DeFazio’s bill, if either the five-year lobbying ban or lifetime ban on lobbying for foreign nations is violated, offenders face up to five years in prison and/or a fine of up to $50,000. Rep. DeFazio introduced the DRAIN the SWAMP Act at the end of the 114th Congress, and plans to reintroduce the legislation when Congress reconvenes in January. To read a copy of the letter, click here. To see Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on the DRAIN the SWAMP Act, click here.
12.14.2016	Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Rep. Gerald E. Connolly, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Government Operations, and Rep. André Carson, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management, sent a letter to the General Services Administration (GSA) after it provided a briefing in response to a letter sent by the Ranking Members on November 30, 2016, raising concerns about the imminent breach and conflicts of interest with President-elect Donald Trump’s lease for the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. In their letter, the Ranking Members thank the GSA Administrator for making available the Deputy Commissioner of GSA’s Public Buildings Service, who confirmed GSA’s position on the lease. They wrote: “Most importantly, the Deputy Commissioner informed our staff that GSA assesses that Mr. Trump will be in breach of the lease agreement the moment he takes office on January 20, 2017, unless he fully divests himself of all financial interests in the lease for the Washington D.C. hotel. The Deputy Commissioner made clear that Mr. Trump must divest himself not only of managerial control, but of all ownership interest as well.” The letter explains that GSA received no communications from Mr. Trump or his associates about this imminent breach after he won the Republican nomination or after he was elected President: “In fact, the Deputy Commissioner informed our staffs that GSA has received no communications to date from Mr. Trump’s business organization about this issue. This raises serious questions about how Mr. Trump plans to proceed.” The letter also raises serious concerns about conflicts of interest that already exist and may become even more exacerbated going forward, including that the top official from Mr. Trump’s business organization that GSA has been working with on the lease is Mr. Trump’s daughter, Ivanka. The Ranking Members wrote: “In other words, Ms. Trump is all of the following—the President-elect’s daughter, a top presidential transition team official, a lessee under the contract GSA oversees, and the primary contact for GSA on the lease. The conflicts of interest are obvious.” The Ranking Members requested copies of unredacted documents, including exhibits to the lease that list the ownership of the leasing corporate entity; monthly expense and profit projections; and legal memos regarding the potential conflict of interest arising from Mr. Trump having an ownership interest in the hotel and serving as President. Click here and see below to read today’s letter.
12.08.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted Republican leadership for sabotaging bipartisan legislation that would have created and sustained needed jobs and boosted economic growth in Oregon’s coastal communities. For months, DeFazio worked with a group of bipartisan negotiators to finalize the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA), now called the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN), which authorizes funding for the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) navigation, flood control, and environmental restoration projects. This legislation would have directly benefitted Oregon’s ports. However, at the last minute, Republican leadership added a controversial California drought plan that will jeopardize Oregon’s fishing industry. The House passed the WIIN Act 360-61—DeFazio voted against the legislation. “For months, I worked with my Republican counterparts on a WRDA bill that would have strengthened coastal communities and our environment, and created and sustained thousands of jobs. Instead of passing that bipartisan bill, Republican leadership added a last-minute, 90-page poison pill that will allow California to divert scarce water from the Sacramento River Bay-Delta. Diverting water from this critical watershed risks a shutdown of the West Coast fishery, and thousands of good-paying jobs that depend on healthy fisheries. Despite the many victories that I was able to secure, including dedicated funding for small port dredging, I could not support this bill,” said DeFazio. This is the second time the Republican leadership have interfered with what had been a bipartisan agreement on this legislation. In September, Republican leaders stripped from the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 DeFazio’s provision to ensure that funds collected in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are only used for harbor maintenance—not for unrelated government spending. The additional investment from this provision would have created and sustained needed jobs in Oregon’s coastal communities, would have made conditions safer for our fishing and recreation industries, and would have provided a tremendous boost to our economic competiveness. PERMANENT FUNDING FOR SMALL PORTS “I was able to secure a number of priorities that are victories for Oregon’s coastal communities. I am happy that the legislation includes my provision to guarantee that small ports receive a minimum of $90 million annually and no less than 10 percent of the Corps’ overall Operations and Maintenance funding each year for infrastructure needs. This measure will ensure that some of our most critical needs will be met in our ports and harbors—no matter what size,” said DeFazio. For years, the Federal Government has neglected to invest in our nation’s small ports and harbors. DeFazio has fought repeatedly during his time in Congress to secure federal funds to dredge small ports along Oregon’s south coast. In 2014, he secured a provision that temporarily guaranteed funding for small, emerging ports. The legislation passed today makes that provision permanent. ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS DeFazio advocated for a number of additional provisions that are part of the final legislation, including: Funding to help the city of Flint, Michigan protect its citizens and children from the ongoing health risks resulting from lead contamination of its water system. A provision that directs the federal government to fund a study of the conditions of federal breakwaters and jetties that protect the nation’s coastal ports. Like levees and dams before, the condition of the nation’s water-related infrastructure is deteriorating. This federal study will provide necessary information detailing the true state of our jetties so Congress can take future steps to address the backlog of critical projects. A provision that increases federal transparency by requiring the Corps to make publicly available all data related to federal dredging contracts, including volumes, federal cost estimates, winning bid price, and other submitted bid offers. A provision to boost youth service and conservation corps programs, which give American youth the opportunity to volunteer or work at maintenance projects at Corps recreational facilities. The authorization of federal funding for the Lower Willamette River Environmental Dredging and Ecosystem Restoration Project, which will restore ecosystem functions by reconnecting floodplain habitat to the river and improving fish and wildlife habitats. Authorization of a new Columbia River Basin Program to help reduce toxic contamination and clean-up contaminated sites in the Columbia River Basin. Authorization of a program to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species in Oregon’s waterways. Preventing the infestation of aquatic invasive species in new regions ultimately saves us higher costs down the road, since the Fish and Wildlife Service projects an infestation of zebra and quagga mussels in the Columbia River would cost hydro-electric facilities hundreds of millions of dollars (between $300-$500 million) annually. Language that guarantees rural Oregon irrigation districts are not penalized for taking federal loans that allow them to improve water quality. Recently, EPA informed Oregon DEQ that Irrigation Districts no longer qualify for a federal subsidy for projects that address nonpoint source pollution, like pollution from agriculture, irrigation, and natural runoff. This provision reinstates the subsidization in the form of principal forgiveness and will ensure these long-term efforts to improve water quality continue.
12.08.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio today introduced legislation that would codify a campaign promise made by President-Elect Trump to ban political appointees from profiting from their time in the Administration after they leave. The DRAIN the SWAMP Act (Deter Revolving-Door Appointments in Our Nation; Stop Washington Appointees from becoming Manipulative Petitioners), H.R. 6476, would require a five-year ban, barring anyone who serves as a political appointee from lobbying for five years after they leave the Executive Branch. The bill would also permanently bar any individual appointed to the Trump Administration from lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. “President-Elect Trump ran on the promise of ‘Draining the Swamp,’” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The American people elected him with the expectation that he would bring a new way of doing business to Washington. I am introducing legislation to hold him and the thousands of political appointees accountable to those high standards.” Although the President-Elect’s transition team announced an intended ban on appointees becoming lobbyists for five years after they leave the White House, there is no penalty for violating the provision unless it is codified by Congress. By law, current Administration appointees are barred from lobbying for two years after they leave the Executive Branch, with a penalty of up to one year in prison and/or a fine of $50,000. Under Rep. DeFazio’s bill, if either the five-year lobbying ban or lifetime ban on lobbying for foreign nations is violated, offenders face up to five years in prison and/or a fine of up to $50,000. Rep. DeFazio will send the legislation to President-Elect Trump so he has an opportunity to endorse the bill ahead of its re-introduction in the 115th Congress. To watch Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on the DRAIN the SWAMP Act, click here.
11.17.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) responded to an investigation from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that found the federal government does not track whether emergency responders are given critical information about shipments of hazardous materials transported by rail. This information helps responders prepare for and act during accidents and incidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials including crude oil, ethanol and other toxic products. In addition, the report found that emergency responders need additional training to adequately plan and prepare for emergency response and mitigation. The report was requested by DeFazio in March 2015. “Every day, thousands of trains carrying highly hazardous, toxic materials crisscross the country, through densely populated urban cities to sparsely populated, but environmentally sensitive rural areas. We must ensure that these communities and emergency responders are prepared if an accident occurs. The report released by the GAO found that the federal government does not know whether or not local officials and emergency responders are receiving critical information about hazardous materials carried on the trains passing through their communities, even when that information has been provided by a railroad to the state. It also found that our first responders need additional training that will help them prepare for and respond to accidents involving toxic materials. This is unacceptable—the Department of Transportation and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration must guarantee that this critical information is shared with local officials and emergency planners, and they must ensure the necessary training is provided to emergency responders jeopardizing their lives to protect public safety,” said DeFazio. The report included several key findings: Training is a key aspect of planning and preparing for emergency response and mitigation. The GAO found that local emergency planners from most counties (20 of 22 surveyed) reported that more than 60 percent of emergency responders are trained at the general awareness level, which solely enables first responders to recognize that they are dealing with a hazardous materials incident and call for trained response personnel. Emergency responders should, at a minimum, be provided with operations level training so they are best prepared to respond to incidents involving hazardous material. Obstacles prevent emergency responders from participating in critical training. Local emergency planners reported that various barriers prevent their emergency responders’ participation in training activities that would help prepare them to respond to rail accidents involving hazardous materials. The GAO found that barriers include the ability of fire departments to backfill fire fighters that are receiving training, a lack of dedicated time for training, the need to take unpaid time off of work for training, and the need to take time off from regular duties “may discourage participation in training.” Emergency responders need information to prepare for incidents. While the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), and the railroads have taken some actions to help support emergency response efforts and preparation, the federal government does not track information sharing between state and local emergency planners. While a 2014 DOT Emergency Order required railroads to share this information with State Emergency Response Commissions, PHMSA and DOT have no process to determine whether information about hazardous shipments is actually shared with emergency planners. The GAO recommends that DOT develop a process to collect data about the distribution of hazardous materials shipping information with local emergency planners. DOT agreed with the recommendation. “In Mosier, Oregon, 16 rail cars from a 96-car Union Pacific crude oil train derailed, spilling 47,000 gallons of Bakken crude oil across the street from a school building and into the Columbia River. The federal government must help communities that are in the dark about what hazardous materials are traveling through them and we must give emergency responders the training they need to prepare and respond to accidents that will inevitably occur. I will continue to push for stronger rules and oversight, as well as increased funding for training grants,” said DeFazio. DeFazio spearheaded provisions in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act of 2015 (FAST Act) that require railroads to share information on a monthly basis about high-hazard trains transporting flammable liquids, such as crude oil and ethanol, with state and tribal emergency response commissions and local responders. The FAST Act included language to direct the DOT to require railroads to provide, through the applicable fusion center, emergency responders with real-time access to information about a train’s hazardous materials shipments in the case of a train accident. The FAST Act also reauthorized a grant program to provide funding to States to enable to them to provide hazardous materials training to fire fighters, and urged the DOT to move forward on a final rule to require railroads to develop and implement oil spill response plans. In July, DeFazio introduced the bipartisan Community Protection and Preparedness Act (H.R. 5786), legislation that creates a new trust fund to help communities prepare for accidents involving rail cars transporting flammable liquids, including crude oil and ethanol. The legislation was co-sponsored by Representatives Greg Walden (R-OR) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). --30--
11.09.2016	EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio today released an audio statement on the 2016 Presidential election results. A transcript of the remarks is below: “First and foremost, I want to thank the people of the 4th Congressional district for their strong vote of support for the work I’ve been doing to represent them in Washington, D.C. “We live in a constitutional representative democracy. There will be a need to bring the country back together. Congress and the Trump administration will have to work to find common ground. In particular, I look forward to working with this administration on a new trade policy. I have voted against each and every so-called “free” trade agreement, which has exported quality American jobs to seek out the cheapest, most exploitable labor around the world. We need to change that. “President-Elect Trump has also talked about a trillion dollar investment in our crumbling infrastructure. That money could be well-spent to put hundreds of thousands of people to work, make our country more competitive, get people out of congestion and save on fuel. I have ideas about how to fund that investment and I look forward to working with them on that. “I will otherwise look for other places where we can make common cause, and when I find it necessary to disagree with this administration and their proposed policies, as I have with every president, Democrat or Republican, I will do my best to represent my district and the needs of my people, my state, and our country as best I can. “
10.04.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded nearly $260,000 to the State of Oregon to develop or revise emergency plans and invest in emergency response training to deal with accidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials. The grant can also be used to investigate how much and how frequently hazardous materials are being transported through Oregon cities. “For years, I have worked to increase safety standards for the transportation of hazardous materials and to help emergency responders prepare for accidents. We still have a lot of work to do to ensure that Oregon communities are sufficiently prepared to respond to a serious accident involving hazardous materials. I am very happy that the DOT will provide resources to help develop comprehensive emergency plans and train and protect emergency responders. I will continue to push the federal government and Congress to better protect our communities in the future,” said DeFazio. Yesterday, the DOT’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) announced it was issuing $20.4 million in Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness grants to states, territories, and Native American tribes to enhance their ability to respond to hazardous materials transportation incidents. Oregon will be awarded $258,898 to fund additional emergency planning and training. The funding was authorized in the “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act” (FAST Act), which passed Congress and was signed into law in December 2015. DeFazio was a key negotiator on the FAST Act, and secured critical safety provisions to better protect Oregon communities. The full DOT grant announcement can be found here: https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/dot-announces-over-20-million-hazardous-materials-emergency-preparedness-grants-states. BACKGROUND ON HAZARDOUS MATERIAL TRANSPORTATION In June 2016, Congress passed the bipartisan Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act (PIPES Act). As a key negotiator, DeFazio successfully secured critical reforms and new tools to protect communities across the country from serious accidents involving the transportation of oil and gas by pipeline. June 10, 2016--DeFazio and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) urged the Department of Transportation to quickly finalize critical safety rules that will better protect communities and environmentally sensitive areas from catastrophic crude oil and ethanol train accidents. The letter was sent in response to a June 3rd oil train accident in Mosier, OR. December 4, 2015--The FAST Act was signed into law, this legislation requires railroads to provide advanced notification and information on high-hazard flammable trains to states. The legislation also includes provisions DeFazio championed to require thermal-protection for rail tank cars and require railroads to retrofit, replace and phase out 40,000 additional rail tank cars to prevent catastrophic spills in accidents. March 12, 2015--DeFazio sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting an examination of emergency response capabilities to handle crude oil transportation by rail. DeFazio expressed that he was concerned that emergency responders in these states, particularly in the most remote and environmentally sensitive areas, may not be sufficiently prepared to respond to a serious rail accident involving the transportation of crude oil, such as what happened in Lac-Megantic, Quebec; Casselton, North Dakota; or Lynchburg, Virginia. The study is currently underway. February 3, 2015 DeFazio sent a letter to DOT Inspector General Calvin L. Scovel, III requesting a full audit of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) pipeline and hazardous materials safety programs. The request was sent on the same day that DeFazio highlighted PHMSA’s failure to address longstanding pipeline and hazardous materials safety issues, including new design standards for DOT-111 tank cars, at a Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee hearing. The audit is underway. In January 2015, DeFazio sent a letter to DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx, urging him to take immediate action to address rail tank car safety and other significant pipeline and hazardous materials safety hazards. -30-
09.30.2016	“As we mark one year since the tragic shooting at Umpqua Community College, we stand strong with the community of Roseburg. Our thoughts are with the friends and family who lost loved ones that day, and with a community that continues to work together to recover. “I want to commemorate the selfless actions of the first responders, the leaders of the community, and people of Roseburg who demonstrated courage, tenacity, generosity and compassion in the wake of this unthinkable event. We must also thank those who have worked tirelessly over the past year to help the community of Roseburg heal. “There is still a long road ahead in repairing the damage that was done, but we are inspired by the strength, resiliency and spirit embodied in this town—that’s UCC strong.”
09.29.2016	This week Rep. Peter DeFazio introduced the Helping Improve Grants for Higher Education & Repayment of Expensive Debt (HIGHER ED) Act, a bill that will make college more affordable for students nationwide. The major feature of the bill would help borrowers repay their student loans by raising the minimum annual salary required before they have to begin to pay back their loans under income-driven repayment plans. Currently, former students enrolled in income-driven loan repayment plans are generally required to start making payments on their loans upon earning a salary of at least $17,655 annually, or 150 percent of the federal poverty level. Under Rep. DeFazio’s legislation, the minimum salary would be raised to $26,482.50—225 percent of the federal poverty level. Additionally, under current programs interest on applicable loans begins to accrue when the loan enters repayment even if the borrower’s payment is $0. Under Rep. DeFazio’s bill, borrowers will not be charged interest from the time they graduate until they begin earning the minimum annual salary. “A college education should open doors for our nation’s young people—not weigh them down with crippling debt,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “My legislation will ensure that recent graduates can focus on finding jobs and starting their careers without the added pressure of sky-high monthly loan payments and rapidly-accruing interest.” In addition, the bill includes a number of provisions to ease the financial burden of student loans, including: The re-institution of year-round Pell Grants, enabling students to finish their education faster. Year-round Pell Grants ended in 2011. The bill also raises the maximum Pell Grant to $9,410, the national average cost of in-state tuition for the 2015-2016 school year, and indexes the grant to inflation moving forward, retaining the Pell Grant’s purchasing power. The re-institution of graduate student eligibility for subsidized loans, which was removed during the Republican budget cuts of 2013. This would give graduate students access to federal loans which do not accrue interest while they are in school. A provision that allows former students to refinance their student loans during the 2016-2017 school year at current historic low interest rates , and discharge student loan debt in bankruptcy. Currently, if an individual files for bankruptcy, student loan debt is the only debt that is unable to be discharged. A provision providing eligibility for substitute teachers at higher education institutions to access public service loan forgiveness. # # #
09.28.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today led a bipartisan letter with Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT) urging U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman to ensure that any new U.S.-Canada Softwood Lumber Trade Agreement ensures fair competition and a level playing field for U.S. softwood lumber producers. The lawmakers wrote in the letter, “Without an effective agreement to counter this [the Canadian government’s] subsidy, Canadian trade practices would yield ever increasing market shares for Canadian product and producers, displacing and harming U.S. manufacturers, mill workers, loggers, and many local businesses and jobs in their communities…We continue to support negotiations between the United States and Canada aimed at a new, stable, and sustainable Softwood Lumber Agreement. No one should expect the U.S. industry to voluntarily give up its rights under current U.S. trade laws in return for an agreement that fails to meet this objective. Therefore, it is essential that a key feature of any new agreement is for it to be designed to maintain Canadian exports at or below an agreed U.S. market share.” “Unfairly traded lumber from Canada continues to impact Seneca and other local lumber manufacturers by flooding our markets with lumber that is directly subsidized by the government of Canada,” said Todd Payne, CEO of Seneca Sawmill Company. “We appreciate Congressman DeFazio’s continued leadership in this fight and are steadfast in our position that any agreement must maintain Canadian imports at or below a market share which effectively offsets the unfair government subsidies. This position is consistent with the joint statement of President Obama and Prime Minister Trudeau as well members of the United States Congress.” “Stoltze Lumber has suffered firsthand because of the now expired Softwood Lumber Agreement,” said Chuck Roady, Vice President and General Manager of F.H. Stoltze Land and Lumber Company. “The Canadians have held an unfair advantage for far too long. We need a new agreement that will give American timber a fighting chance to compete in the lumber market and stand firm with the U.S. industry’s fight for an effective agreement. We thank Congressman Zinke for leading this effort in the House of Representatives and supporting the interests of Montana’s lumber companies.” The full text of the letter can be found below. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. BACKGROUND Because of the difference in timber pricing and market structures between the two nations—most of the United States’ timberlands are privately owned, while the majority of Canadian timberlands are owned by the provincial government —the two nations have a long-standing series of trade agreements, or Softwood Lumber Agreements (SLA) between them. Canadian provinces set the price of their timber through a government-subsidized fee, based on the volume of trees harvested which keeps prices artificially low and gives Canadian lumber manufacturers a distinct advantage over U.S. timber producers, especially in down-market cycles. Without a strong Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA) to level the playing field, Canada would have an oversized share of the timber market, displacing or harming thousands of U.S. timber producers, mill workers, loggers, and other businesses. The most recent trade agreement with Canada on softwood lumber expired in October 2015. Without a new agreement, U.S. producers will have no choice but to file trade cases in court to offset the advantages provided by the Canadian government’s unfairly-subsidized lumber. # # # The Honorable Michael Froman United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Froman: We applaud your efforts to negotiate a new Softwood Lumber Agreement to offset unfair Canadian lumber trade practices. U.S. timber, whether from private or government land, is sold in a competitive free market system. Canadian timber is heavily subsidized and sold or contracted at pennies on the dollar compared to the free market, competitive pricing of U.S. timber of comparable quality. In addition to subsidized stumpage the Canadians have adopted various other measures to shield their industry from competitive forces. As a result, border measures against subsidized and unfairly traded lumber imports are critical for our domestic industry. Without an effective agreement to counter this subsidy, Canadian trade practices would yield ever increasing market shares for Canadian product and producers, displacing and harming U.S. manufacturers, mill workers, loggers, and many local businesses and jobs in their communities. This effect can already be seen borne out in trade statistics. Therefore, it is essential that a key feature of any new agreement is for it to be designed to maintain Canadian exports at or below an agreed U.S. market share. We continue to support negotiations between the United States and Canada aimed at a new, stable, and sustainable Softwood Lumber Agreement. No one should expect the U.S. industry to voluntarily give up its rights under current U.S. trade laws in return for an agreement that fails to meet this objective. Short of an effective agreement, U.S. industry will have no choice but to file petitions for relief to offset the inequitable advantages provided to its Canadian counterpart by government subsidies and log export restrictions. A negotiated agreement is preferable to new trade cases, provided the agreement is an effective offset to the underlying trade distortion of Canadian public timber pricing systems and other subsidy practices. We commend the dedication and hard work you and your entire team have put into negotiating a trade agreement that works for the men and women of our forestry industry. We encourage you to continue to press for an agreement that allows the U.S. timber industry to compete on a level playing field. We produce some of the highest quality lumber in the world but our industry cannot continue to grow and survive when subsidized lumber floods our market. Sincerely,
09.28.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted House Republican leadership for removing his bipartisan provision to guarantee that money intended to dredge the nation’s coastal and inland commercial ports would actually go towards harbor maintenance, rather than unrelated government spending. DeFazio’s provision had been included in a committee-passed version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA), which authorizes funding for the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) navigation, flood control, and environmental restoration projects. Republican leadership stripped that language from the legislation before it was considered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. “The federal government has a responsibility to safeguard, maintain, and strengthen our ports, harbors and waterways that support thousands of jobs and economic growth in communities across the country. I am extremely disappointed that the Republican leadership decided to play politics with the health of our coastal communities. My bipartisan provision would have ensured that funds collected in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) are only used for harbor maintenance—not for unrelated government spending. The additional investment from this provision would have created and sustained needed jobs in Oregon’s coastal communities, would have made conditions safer for our fishing and recreation industries, and would have provided a tremendous boost to our economic competiveness. Although I was unsuccessful today, I will continue to work with colleagues from both sides of the aisle who supported the provision in order to prevent Congress from diverting these funds from their intended purpose in the future,” said DeFazio. Because Republicans broke their bipartisan agreement to include DeFazio’s HMTF fix, DeFazio voted against WRDA. Similar legislation was approved by the Senate earlier this month. The two bills are expected to be reconciled in the coming weeks and a final bill brought before the House and Senate before the end of the year. As a key negotiator on the legislation, DeFazio will continue to fight for Oregon’s priorities. PERMANENT FUNDING FOR SMALL PORTS DeFazio secured a provision that guarantees the nation’s small ports will permanently receive at least 10 percent of annual funding provided for dredging across the country. This set-aside will help to address the critical needs of small ports in Southwest Oregon, and will generate additional revenue over time as Congress provides more funding to the Corps. “Even though my HMTF provision was dropped from the bill, I was able to secure a number of priorities that are major victories for Oregon’s coastal communities. I am happy that the legislation includes my provision to guarantee that small ports receive a minimum of $90 million annually and no less than 10 percent of the Corps’ overall Operations and Maintenance funding each year for infrastructure needs. This measure will ensure that some of our most critical needs will be met in our ports and harbors—no matter what size,” said DeFazio. For years, the federal government has neglected to invest in our nation’s small ports and harbors. DeFazio has fought repeatedly during his time in Congress to secure federal funds to dredge small ports along Oregon’s south coast. In 2014, he secured a provision that temporarily boosted funding for small, emerging ports. The legislation passed today makes that provision permanent. FIGHTING TO STOP WASTEFUL FEDERAL SPENDING ON SPLASH PARKS DeFazio also fought to strip a provision that would have designated limited Corps resources to build a splash park, covered basketball courts, soccer and baseball fields for an economic development project in Fort Worth, Texas. With a backlog of $68 billion in critical water infrastructure projects, limited Corps construction dollars should not be diverted for recreational features that provide no economic value. His amendment was defeated 181-243. ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS DeFazio applauded the inclusion of funding to help the city of Flint, Michigan protect its citizens and children from the ongoing health risks resulting from lead contamination of its water system. DeFazio supported an amendment that will assist in establishing new watercraft inspection stations and support coverage for existing stations within the geographic boundaries of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington. These inspection stations will help to halt the spread of aquatic invasive species, such as quagga and zebra mussels, from hitching a ride on personal watercrafts from lake to lake, and from waterbody to waterbody. The amendment was approved by voice vote. The legislation includes a DeFazio provision that directs the federal government to fund a study of the conditions of federal breakwaters and jetties that protect the nation’s coastal ports. Like levees and dams before, the condition of the nation’s water-related infrastructure is deteriorating. This federal study will provide necessary information detailing the true state of our jetties so Congress can take future steps to address the backlog of critical projects; DeFazio secured a provision that increases federal transparency by requiring the Corps to make publicly available all data related to federal dredging contracts, including volumes, federal cost estimates, winning bid price, and other submitted bid offers; This legislation will remove an unnecessary land-use restriction at Cascade Lock and Dam in Oregon, which will allow Cascade Locks to expand and develop jobs within their business park; DeFazio secured language directing the Corps to look at the potential for historical, cultural, economic, and recreational aspects of disposing of Corps-owned assets. This will benefit Willamette Falls Locks in Clackamas County, Oregon, which was closed by the Corps in 2011; The legislation included the authorization of federal funding for the Lower Willamette River Environmental Dredging and Ecosystem Restoration Project, which will restore ecosystem functions by reconnecting floodplain habitat to the river and improving fish and wildlife habitats. --30--
09.27.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio today introduced legislation that would improve government transparency and increase accountability in the notoriously slow and opaque rulemaking process. The Accountability in Rulemaking Act would require the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) and all federal agencies to expand the information included on the Unified Agenda, a central online database, to track and process the rulemaking process. Rep. DeFazio’s bill will allow the public to know the current status of proposed rules and would keep both OIRA and federal agencies accountable to timelines and to the public. “So often in Washington, sound policy ideas are submitted to the rulemaking process, only to fall into the black hole of the Executive Branch,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “Oftentimes these rules are meant to protect public health and safety and ought to move swiftly through the process—but as it stands now, government bureaucrats can hold up the process indefinitely with no consequence and at great risk to public health and safety. There is little-to-no recourse for any American who wants to see the status and progress of the rulemaking process—that’s unthinkable, especially in today’s digital age. The Accountability in Rulemaking Act will increase transparency, allowing the American people to see what their government is working on, and increase Executive Branch accountability by finally bringing this process into the light.” # # #
09.26.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), along with Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Tom Carper (D-DE) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) released a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report finding the United States is inadequately prepared for a major earthquake. The GAO reviewed earthquake mitigation efforts in the United States, specifically whether the DOD and GSA had identified high risk federal buildings and the status of ShakeAlert System. DeFazio was a co-requester on the report. The final report titled “Earthquakes: Additional Actions Needed to Identify and Mitigate Risks to Federal Buildings and Implement an Early Warning System” recommended that: The Department of Defense (DOD) and GSA (General Services Administration) identify exceptionally high risk federal buildings and prioritize and implement comprehensive seismic safety measures to mitigate earthquake risks; and The United States Geological Service (USGS) develop a program management plan to address ShakeAlert implementation challenges. “This weekend’s earthquakes in Oregon only reinforce our critical need for improved earthquake emergency preparedness. The GAO report released last week confirms that the United States is falling behind when it comes to earthquake mitigation efforts,” said DeFazio. “Federal agencies must do more to identify and mitigate seismically unsafe buildings at high risk of damage from an earthquake in order to save lives and reduce injury and property damage. In addition, we need a robust early warning system, like ShakeAlert, to save lives, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast.” While the ShakeAlert system is capable of issuing early earthquake warnings, a dedicated funding stream needed to expand and operate the system has not yet been identified and the system faces implementations challenges. BACKGROUND In 2015, DeFazio introduced H.R. 3240, legislation to require FEMA to develop a plan, and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. In February 2016, the House Passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015, which included DeFazio’s provision to create a Federal Interagency Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate our coastlines. Last month, DeFazio announced a $3.7 million grant to six universities including the University of Oregon to support the transition of the “ShakeAlert” earthquake early warning (EEW) system from testing to production. Additionally, the USGS awarded about $58,000 to the University of Oregon to supplement last year’s grant to support the research and development of the ShakeAlert system. Based on the GAO report findings Ranking Member DeFazio and Sens. Feinstein and Carper sent a letter to President Obama, urging the Administration to take steps to improve our nation’s earthquake preparedness and resilience. DeFazio will continue to work with his colleagues to secure the needed funding necessary to make the ShakeAlert system fully operational. The DeFazio-Carper-Feinstein letter can be found here: The report can be found here: https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-16-680 # # #
09.23.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio today led a bipartisan letter to House Leadership with fifty-one other Representatives urging Congress to reauthorize full funding for the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) Program for FY2016. The Secure Rural Schools program was created to help timber-dependent counties after changes in federal timber policy dramatically reduced timber receipts to rural communities across the United States. Today, the SRS program provides financial support for municipal services such as law enforcement, infrastructure and education. The majority of Oregon’s counties have received SRS payments through the program’s course. The program expired on September 30, 2015, eviscerating county budgets and reducing vital services. “The Secure Rural Schools program is there as a critical safety net for Oregon’s timber-dependent communities until Congress does its job and improves forest management policies,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “It’s imperative that members from both parties come together to reauthorize the SRS program and reinstate the payments that our communities rely on for education and safety. The full text of the letter can be found below. A PDF version of the letter can be found here. # # # September 22, 2016 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker Democratic Leader U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol H-204, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Democratic Leader Pelosi, We write to express our strong support for reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program for fiscal year 2016 and beyond, and our willingness to support your efforts. The SRS program provides crucial support for law enforcement, transportation infrastructure, and education in the more than 720 counties in 41 states that depend on revenue from federal forests. The SRS program expired on September 30, 2015. Earlier this year the last payments were distributed to eligible counties. Most counties have completed their budgets for the upcoming year and without the SRS program, counties have been forced to cut vital services. As a result, funding for law enforcement, road maintenance, and education has in many cases been reduced. Nine million students have gone back to school with fewer teachers and educational opportunities. Taken together, these funding cuts negatively affect everyone who lives or visits these counties. According to the National Association of Counties, when the authorization for SRS lapsed in fiscal year 2014, forest payments to counties decreased by over 80 percent. Counties and school districts nationwide faced dramatic budgetary shortfalls. Thankfully, Congress understood the serious effect the cuts created and reauthorized the SRS program retroactively. The SRS program continues to be a critical safety net for forest counties. As Congress continues its work to improve forest management with policies that protect natural resources, improve forest health and provide jobs, we urge you to work in a bipartisan fashion to reauthorize the SRS program. We stand ready to work with you in support of this important program. Sincerely,
09.23.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced the introduction of the Frank Moore Wild Steelhead Sanctuary Act of 2016, H.R. 6129, legislation that would designate nearly 100,000 acres in the Steamboat Creek Watershed in Umpqua National Forest for salmon preservation. The Steamboat Creek watershed is consistently identified as one of the most important ecological areas in the Pacific Northwest. The watershed also serves as an important cold water refuge for migrating summer steelhead. The land, which will be designated as a Special Management Area, is to be named in honor of Frank Moore, a local WWII veteran, avid fly fisherman and fish conservation advocate. A former proprietor of the Steamboat Inn on the North Umpqua River in Douglas County, Moore served on the State of Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission from 1971 to 1974 and has been repeatedly recognized by organizations for his conservation efforts. “There are no two people who have done more to protect and preserve the North Umpqua River and its extraordinary natural resources than Frank and his beloved wife Jeanne Moore” said Rep. DeFazio. “I can think of no more appropriate tribute to their efforts than to dedicate this incredible area to their legacy to remind us all of their life’s work safeguarding Oregon’s beautiful wild areas.” “Pacific Rivers applauds Representative DeFazio for his support of the Frank Moore Wild Steelhead Sanctuary,” said John Kober, Executive Director of Pacific Rivers. “It is a rare opportunity to be able to honor a national hero while protecting one of the last truly wild rivers in Oregon and this proposal does just that. Frank Moore fought bravely in World War II and upon returning home, he and his wife, Jeanne, continued their lives of service by working to protect the North Umpqua and its tributaries. Safeguarding Steamboat Creek for wild steelhead through this legislation would be the perfect tribute to Frank’s service and a lasting gift to future generations.” "The Frank Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area will provide protections to vitally important wild steelhead habitat in the Steamboat Creek watershed,” said Dean Finnerty, Southwestern Oregon Field Representative for Trout Unlimited. “Steamboat Creek and its tributaries are a major tributary to the North Umpqua, one of the world’s most famous steelhead rivers. We are delighted that Representative De Fazio has introduced a bill to protect this area for ours and future generations while honoring a truly special conservation hero and US veteran, Frank Moore." # # #
09.22.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), along with Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT) today introduced a resolution supporting the inclusion of a public health insurance option in the American health insurance market. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the inclusion of a public option in the health insurance market would reduce premiums for consumers by as much as eight percent. A public option would also increase competition in the marketplace, preventing private insurers from artificially inflating their pricing. Rep. DeFazio was a key supporter of the public option in 2010, during the debate over the Affordable Care Act. The legislation originally included a provision that would create a government-run health insurance option to compete alongside private insurance, but it was eventually stripped out of the bill before final passage. “The Affordable Care Act made a good start to address the many abuses inflicted by private health insurance companies, but we need to go further,” said Rep. DeFazio. “It’s time to build upon the progress made by the ACA and finally provide Americans a choice outside of the private insurance market.” “By most measures the Affordable Care Act has been a success insuring millions of Americans for the first time, but it is clear that more competition is needed as the marketplaces established under are facing challenges across the country,” said Rep. Courtney. “The public option was a component of the original House reform bill, and it is intended to help lower prices for consumers by establishing a new more affordable option. An added benefit to establishing a public option is that it could also help lower the national deficit. I thank Rep. Defazio for leading this important effort.” # # #
09.21.2016	Today, in a House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure hearing, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted changes to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in Oregon that threaten to stifle economic growth and prevent development or redevelopment in over 230 Oregon communities. The following issues were raised in testimony at today’s hearing: Oregon communities will have to adopt new, restrictive, yet-to-be-released federal requirements that would severely impact, and in some cases prohibit, economic and residential development or redevelopment on private property due to potential impacts to threatened or endangered species; The requirements, which were negotiated by two federal agencies without input from state and local officials, ignore Oregon’s already-strong land use policies; The 100-year floodplain in Oregon will be expanded to account for climate change and potential erosion, meaning that homeowners and businesses in these expanded floodplains may be required to buy flood insurance; Anything within the new floodplain, including Highway 101, downtown Coos Bay, the Glenwood Redevelopment Plan, or all of Tillamook County, could be considered critical habitat for salmon; These stringent development or redevelopment requirements will be the same throughout the state, resulting in a one-size-fits-all plan that treats the high deserts in Eastern Oregon the same as downtown Portland or the Oregon coast; The communities that have to comply with the new requirements have been told to voluntarily impose a two-year moratorium on all floodplain development or voluntary implement interim measures that the Federal Emergency Management Agency has yet to create; The new federal requirements do not take into account Oregon’s strong land-use laws, and could result in urban sprawl when Oregon communities run out of room to develop or redevelop existing structures. DeFazio requested the hearing to examine FEMA’s plan to implement changes to the NFIP and examine whether implementation of the new requirements will exceed FEMA’s statutory authority. “For two and a half years, I have worked with Oregon communities, local stakeholders, and federal partners to strike a balance between protecting threatened and endangered species and allowing reasonable residential and economic development. Unfortunately, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has dictated a one-size-fits-all land use strategy that will be the same whether you are a family who wants to expand your house in Eastern Oregon, a company that wants to relocate in downtown Portland, or a community that wants to redevelop a struggling part of town in Coos Bay. All of this is done under the guise that these already developed areas are areas of critical habitat for salmon. Under their plan, land along significant portions of Highway 101, almost all of downtown Coos Bay, and the redevelopment of Glenwood could be stopped. This is an extraordinary example of bureaucratic overreach. I called for this hearing to highlight the severe impact these changes will have on economic growth and residential development in 232 Oregon cities and to figure out a way to make this process work better for Oregonians. As I said in the hearing, I will work with my colleagues to ensure that the federal government works closely with our local and state partners to find workable solutions that protect both critical habitat and economic growth,” said DeFazio. [To see video of his opening statement, click here]. Witnesses at the hearing included: Mr. Michael Grimm, Assistant Administrator for Mitigation, Federal Emergency Management Agency. Assistant Administrator Grimm presented a brief history of the NFIP, the changes to the NFIP in Oregon, and implementation of the NFIP changes. [Testimony] Christine Shirley from the Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. She is leading the State’s efforts to inform and educate local communities about the new requirements in the Reasonable and Prudent Alternatives (RPA). [Testimony] Honorable Denny Doyle, the Mayor of the City of Beaverton. Mayor Doyle has been monitoring this issue for several years and shared real-world examples of the impacts of the NFIP changes. [Testimony] The Honorable Heather Carruthers, Commissioner, Board of County Commissioners, Monroe County, Florida; on behalf of the National Association of Counties. Commissioner Carruthers discussed how changes to the NFIP in Florida have impacted Monroe County. [Testimony] Jon Chandler, the CEO of the Oregon Home Builders Association; on behalf of the National Association of Home Builders. Mr. Chandler discussed the potential negative ramifications of the NFIP changes on the housing market in Oregon. [Testimony] Video of the full hearing can be found here. Video of DeFazio’s questions can be found here. BACKGROUND In 2009, FEMA was sued in U.S. District Court in Oregon for failing to ensure that the NFIP complies with the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The action resulted in a settlement agreement which required FEMA to consult with the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS) on a Biological Opinion under ESA. As part of the Biological Opinion, NMFS prepared the RPA, or alternative actions needed to avoid jeopardizing an endangered species or adversely modifying critical habitat. FEMA administers the NFIP and NMFS administers the ESA. In April 2016, NMFS issued a plan that will require new, restrictive criteria, standards and regulations that will severely impact—and in some cases prohibit— economic development, and residential development on private property in a floodplain due to purported impacts on threatened or endangered species. The process ignored the concerns of local and state officials and agency experts as well as Oregon’s already-strong land use policies. Under this plan tens of thousands of acres of land could be restricted or prohibited from development. For example, a large portion of downtown Coos Bay would fall into a High Hazard Area, which means development could be severely restricted or prohibited. In June, FEMA sent a letter to Oregon communities stating that NFIP communities need to either stop all development in areas at risk of flooding once every 100 years (which includes hundreds of miles of Eugene, Springfield, the Oregon coast, and Portland), or implement yet-to-be-developed interim measures to mitigate potential impacts to species and habitat. FEMA went on to threaten that communities that do not comply with their instructions will face enforcement actions. Over the last two and a half years, Congressman DeFazio engaged FEMA and NMFS, as well as the Council for Environmental Quality at the White House, to express his concerns with a process that obstructed the input of the impacted communities, overstepped FEMA’s statutory authority and applied a draconian one-size-fits-all approach to a state that already has strong land-use policies. Those state policies, together with federal laws, have worked well to protect endangered species. DeFazio requested today’s hearing after hearing from a number of city leaders, stakeholders, and community members who were concerned with the potential impact of this directive. At the hearing, FEMA gave assurances that they would work with communities to protect our endangered species without dictating unworkable solutions for communities in flood prone areas. Additional background on the changes to the NFIP and letters sent between DeFazio, FEMA and NMFS can be found here.
09.01.2016	Representative Peter DeFazio today announced nearly a million dollars in new funding has been awarded to combat veteran homelessness across southwestern Oregon. The VA has awarded $985,293 in grants under the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program to help low-income veteran families avoid homelessness. Nearly three hundred thousand dollars will be awarded to the St. Vincent de Paul Society of Lane County, servicing Linn, Benton and Lincoln Counties. More than seven hundred thousand dollars will be awarded to ACCESS Community Action Agency, servicing Jackson, Josephine, Douglas, Coos and Curry Counties. Both organizations provide housing assistance to veteran families and help homeless families transition to permanent housing. “Just as our veterans take care of us when they are on the battlefield, so is it our responsibility to take care of them when they return home,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “We must be vigilant to ensure that no veteran or their family slips through the cracks. These funds will ensure that community organizations can look after vulnerable veteran families and give them the support that they deserve.”
08.24.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded more than $171,000 to the Charleston and Sutherlin fire departments to help protect their firefighters. The Charleston Rural Fire Protection District in Coos Bay will be awarded $9,086 for new equipment for operations and safety purposes, and the City of Sutherlin will receive $162,058 to go towards personal protective equipment. The funds are allocated as part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program and are intended to improve safety measures and assist fire prevention programs. “Oregon’s rural communities are protected by dedicated firefighters who regularly put themselves into harm’s way to keep their neighbors safe,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “It’s imperative that these communities receive ample funding to equip their firefighters with the tools they need to protect themselves, and I applaud FEMA for awarding these communities the necessary funds to do just that.” # # #
08.15.2016	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today announced that the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) awarded approximately $3.7 million to six universities including the University of Oregon to support the transition of the “ShakeAlert” earthquake early warning (EEW) system from testing to production. Additionally, the USGS awarded about $58,000 to the University of Oregon to supplement last year’s grant to support the research and development of the ShakeAlert system. “In an earthquake, every second counts,” said DeFazio. “The University of Oregon and other West Coast universities are doing important work to build an early warning system that will give people extra seconds to save lives, avoid or reduce injury and mitigate infrastructure damage during a major earthquake. I will continue to push for the funding necessary to continue development of earthquake preparedness and earthquake early warning systems.” In February, DeFazio joined his colleagues in Congress in sending a letter to the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee urging an additional $16.1 million be appropriated for the transition of the EEW from a demonstration project to an operational system. When fully operational, the ShakeAlert system will use a network of sensors to detect seismic activity and alert impacted areas seconds before the tremors begin. Even a few seconds of advanced notice can trigger actions that mitigate injury and casualties by shutting down industrial systems, isolating utilities and protecting infrastructure. The $3.7 million in USGS grant funding will be awarded through cooperative agreements with California Institute of Technology, Central Washington University, University of California, Berkeley, University of Oregon, University of Washington and University of Nevada, Reno. The USGS has also purchased about $1.5 million in new sensor equipment to expand and improve the ShakeAlert system. The USGS grant announcement can be found here: https://www.usgs.gov/news/usgs-awards-37-million-advance-shakealert-earthquake-early-warning-system-0 -30-
08.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – At the Coos Bay Railroad Centennial Opening Ceremony in North Bend, Oregon, the Coos Bay Rail Link unveiled a train engine named after Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR). The Coos Bay Rail Link named the engine after DeFazio to honor the critical funding he has delivered to improve this critical transportation link and economic engine for the South Coast. “Naming a locomotive after Congressman DeFazio was a no-brainer,” said Port of Coos Bay CEO John Burns. “I can't think of anyone more deserving of the honor. He has been there since the beginning, ensuring that we could take ownership of the line, and working overtime to be sure we have had the funding necessary to make it the success it now is.” Most recently, DeFazio announced in July that he successfully helped the Port secure an $11 million grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) to rehabilitate crumbling tunnels between Coquille and Eugene. “We’ve come a long way since the surprise shutdown of the rail line almost nine years ago. Thanks to a huge team effort of private industry, local, state, and federal leaders, the line is now thriving and spurring economic development for Oregon’s coastal communities. I am extremely proud of my work to deliver the federal investments that have funded critical projects to improve the safety and reliability of train operations and created needed jobs in rural Oregon communities. This is a tremendous honor. I thank the Port of Coos Bay for recognizing my efforts and look forward to continuing to work to improve this critical transportation link and economic engine for the South Coast,” said DeFazio. DeFazio-Coos Bay Rail Line Background The Coos Bay Link was closed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) in September 2007, with just one-days’ notice to shippers, resulting in severe economic impacts to businesses in Southwest Oregon. DeFazio testified before the Federal Surface Transportation Board to encourage them to approve the Port of Coos Bay’s application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. In 2009 the Port was able to purchase the line, thanks in part to $8 million in federal funding DeFazio secured as part of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). In addition, DeFazio was able to help secure $13.5 million for repairs through a Department of Transportation grant in 2010. The Port restored freight rail service in 2011—thanks in large part to investments made by the State of Oregon and the Federal government. These investments have helped move over 24,000 truckloads off the roads and onto the rail line annually. In 2014, the Port of Coos Bay conducted an economic impact study to look at the regional transportation benefits of the Coos Bay Rail Line, and found that the restoration of the rail line saved $1.06 million in improved highway safety, over $766,000 in highway maintenance savings, and emissions savings of $453,000. In July, DeFazio announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is awarding the Coos Bay Rail Link $11 million to rehabilitate nine crumbling tunnels along the critical rail link between Eugene and Coquille. The grant was awarded through the newly-established Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program, which was established to fund projects that will boost economic growth and support the movement of freight throughout our transportation system. DeFazio supported the project and requested the DOT grant in a May 2016 letter sent to the Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx. He also personally spoke to Deputy Secretary Mendez asking that this project be funded. The grant will fund rehabilitation of the tunnels along the Coos Bay Rail Link to bring them up to a good operating condition. The line traverses nine tunnels over an 82-mile section between Coquille and Eugene, all of which are 100 years old. The age of these tunnels, combined with the general environment of the Oregon coast and the Coast Range Mountains, have caused deterioration and drainage issues of the tunnels and track. Safety concerns over tunnel conditions were cited as the primary reason the line was shut down in 2007. The Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program was established in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which passed the United States Congress and was signed into law in December 2015. As the top Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, DeFazio was a lead negotiator and pushed for the freight program, which dedicated a portion of the overall funding for freight projects in rural communities. --30--
07.21.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio, founder and co-chairman of the House Small Brewer’s Caucus, released the following statement about the Department of Justice settlement with Anheuser-Busch InBev: “I’m pleased that the Department of Justice has instituted some restrictions that will rein in some of the anti-competitive practices of Anheuser-Busch InBev as a condition of their merger with SABMiller,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “This settlement will help ensure that small and independent craft breweries in Oregon and across the country remain competitive against behemoth beer companies in an increasingly consolidated beer market, and protect these small businesses from illegal distribution practices that give a tremendous advantage to mega-conglomerates. While I’m disappointed that ABI will not be forced to divest its current distributors, this settlement is an acknowledgement that craft brewers and consumers face challenges in the marketplace due to the increasingly aggressive tactics of ABI. In addition to their distribution practices I have been alarmed at the rate that ABI has been acquiring craft breweries and am pleased that DOJ will be reviewing all future acquisitions of craft breweries by ABI. These actions are a step in the right direction and will allow the craft beer movement in the U.S. to continue to grow and meet consumer demand.” In February, Rep. DeFazio organized a letter from Members of Congress to the Department of Justice urging a thorough review of the proposed ABI acquisition of SABMiller. A PDF version of the letter can be found here.
07.21.2016	Rep. Peter DeFazio today announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded Lane Transit District a grant totaling nearly $3.5 million to purchase and deploy five Zero-Emission electric buses. The grant is part of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)’s Low or No Emission Vehicle Deployment Program, which was authorized in the FAST Act of 2015. As the top Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. DeFazio was a key negotiator of the FAST Act. The new buses will replace old diesel buses that consume 39,114 gallons of diesel fuel and idle for an estimated 2951 hours each year. These new vehicles will allow LTD to significantly reduce the emissions of greenhouse gasses and particulate matter. “It’s essential that urban areas across the country have the opportunity to upgrade their public transportation to cleaner, more environmentally-friendly models,” said Rep. DeFazio. “I’m proud that Eugene and Springfield will now be able to offer state-of-the-art public transportation that will improve our area’s air quality, environmental impact, and overall standard of living.” "These five new all electric buses are an important part of LTD's work to modernize its aging fleet and deliver better transit service,” said A.J. Jackson, General Manager, Lane Transit District. “The FAST Act's investment in public transportation will ensure LTD's ability to deliver high-quality, reliable, transit service in efficient vehicles that eliminate diesel emissions." It’s estimated that the replacement of the older buses will prevent the emission of 399.5 metric tons of CO2-equivalent (CO2-e) emissions and .126 metric tons of fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) into the air each year.
07.18.2016	Congressmen Peter DeFazio, Randy Forbes, Dan Lipinski and more than fifty lawmakers today urged Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to investigate the pending joint venture with the North Carolina-based rail manufacturing company, Vertex Railcar Corporation, and two Chinese corporations, Chinese Railroad Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRSC) and Majestic Legend Holdings. Chinese Railroad Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRSC) is a state-sponsored entity with access to vast amounts of subsidized funding from the Chinese government, allowing them to unfairly and significantly underbid private competitors in the U.S. Majestic Legend Holdings is associated with Legend Holdings, the parent company of Lenovo Computers and also has close ties to the Chinese government. America’s rail system covers more than 140,000 miles and carries forty percent of America’s intercity freight, including 111 million tons of hazardous materials. Allowing a foreign, state-backed entity to increase direct investment in our nation’s critical public infrastructure without appropriate review creates significant economic and national security concerns. Similar mergers involving state-owned companies have threatened other critical sectors of our economy beyond rail, such as public transit, steel fabrication, energy production, food manufacturing, real estate and more. The lawmakers wrote, “This agenda has aggressively asserted Chinese interests into a range of foreign markets such as Australia, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, and others…CRRC in particular is able to access subsidized financing from the Chinese government, which has already enabled the company to underbid private competitors for railcar contracts in Boston and Chicago. In effect, American railcar manufacturers and its associated industries, such as steel, are now competing against the resources of the world’s second largest economy.” For a full version of the letter, click here.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON—Reps. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Jared Polis (CO-02), Peter Welch (VT-AL) and Don Young (AK-AL) today criticized legislation that creates a new, weaker mandatory federal labeling standard for foods containing genetically engineered ingredients. The legislation would allow food manufacturers to include a QR code on all food packaging, which consumers would then have to scan to find out if their foods contain genetically engineered ingredients. This standard would preempt existing state labeling laws and replace them with this much weaker standard. Currently four states have enacted legislation that would require genetically engineered ingredients to be clearly labeled on food packaging with plain and simple wording that is easily and immediately identifiable to shoppers. “This is not transparency—this is an industry-backed sham pushed by big food companies to keep American consumers in the dark about what’s in their food,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “Monsanto and other proponents of genetically modified foods spent nearly $100 million dollars to defeat labeling standards on state ballot initiatives. Now, despite the fact that nine out of ten Americans support on-package, clear GMO labeling, they’ve spent millions in donations to my colleagues in Congress to ensure they could preempt state initiatives and hide genetically modified ingredients from families in all fifty states.” “This GMO bill is a nothing more than a sham and makes it more difficult for consumers to know how their food is grown. It is clear that the industry shoved this bill through Congress, greatly reducing transparency and making it easier for big Ag to bury information in websites and QR codes,” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro, “At a time when nine out of ten Americans want the right to know whether their food was produced using GMOs, this bill keeps consumers in the dark and puts corporate interests first. American consumers deserve better.” “People shouldn’t have to jump through hoops to know what’s in their food,” said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. “If S.764 was truly intended to expand consumers’ right to know, it would require a clear, straightforward, and easy-to-read food labeling standard. Instead, it creates a system of electronic codes, symbols, and text that are confusing to consumers, making them work harder to access information that should be readily available. This bill also leaves many common foods out of labeling requirements, and lacks any enforcement measures to hold companies accountable. We should have one uniform national labeling standard that is simple, clear and makes it easier for consumers to know what's in their food. S.764 does the opposite—it's a bad bill that does not serve the best interests of the American people.” “Consumers should have the right to know what’s in the food that they are buying and serving their family. Congress shouldn’t actively work to limit that information,” said Rep. Jared Huffman. “I am very concerned that this bill preempts state laws without first putting in place a labeling framework. I am disappointed by the multi-year gap in disclosure, and the confusing and insufficient labeling requirements, and I will continue working with my colleagues on the both sides of the aisle and with the Department of Agriculture to find practical solutions to ensure every American can make fully informed decisions when it comes to their food.” “While I appreciate the efforts of my House and Senate colleagues to craft a nationwide labeling policy for GMO products, this bill falls short of the simple and clear labeling standards that Americans deserve. American consumers overwhelmingly support the labeling of foods which have been genetically engineered, and this bill fails to provide a clear and easy-to-read labeling policy that is transparent and accessible to all. This bill would allow companies to disclose GMO information through a digital QR code, which requires a smart phone or other scanning device to interpret. This policy will still leave many consumers in the dark and make it difficult for them to access basic information about their food, which is why I oppose it,” said Rep. Annie Kuster. “Americans need a clear and easy-to-understand label to tell them if the food they’re buying contains GMOs. This bill is a prime example of why the American people are so frustrated with Congress. Republicans claim that this bill promotes transparency, but it’s just another giveaway to big industry,” Rep. Jim McGovern said. “Instead of a clear GMO label, this bill lets food companies keep consumers in the dark by using a QR code, a complicated computer symbol that requires a smartphone – something many Americans simply don’t have. Poll after poll shows the overwhelming majority of Americans – Republicans and Democrats – want clear GMO labels on their food. Families deserve to know what’s in the food they feed their children and this bill falls far short of that goal.” “This really shouldn’t be a complicated issue—consumers want GMO ingredients identified on the label in plain English and not in a special code that needs a smartphone to decipher,” said Rep. Chellie Pingree. “The only reason I can think of to use this complicated system is that some companies must want to hide the true ingredients of their products from their customers.” “Americans deserve to know what is in the food they eat,” Rep. Jared Polis said. “This bill unfairly blocks state GMO labeling laws in favor of a weak national standard. Consumers expect clear labels on a package not bar codes or web links, and I will continue to side with them in the fight for transparency.” “This ‘compromise’ is a win for Monsanto and big food producers at the expense of consumers,” said Rep. Peter Welch. “It guts Vermont’s labelling law and makes a mockery out of the consumer’s right to know. Absurdly, rather than requiring a plain English label on GMO products, it will require shoppers to call a toll free number or look up a website via a fancy barcode on their smartphones to figure out what’s in the food they’re buying. Let’s get real. This is not a compromise. It’s a thinly disguised effort to block the right of consumers to know what’s in the food they eat.” “This legislation is troubling in many ways; not only does it significantly undermine a state’s right to develop labeling laws within their own jurisdictions, it also blocks efforts across the country to give consumers the right to know exactly what is being served on their dinner plates,” said Rep. Don Young. “States like Alaska, which passed mandatory labeling requirements for Genetically Engineered fish and seafood in 2005, would be barred from enforcing their own laws. Given the FDA’s misguided and flawed approval of “Frankenfish” – the first ever genetically engineered animal for human consumption, I believe this is the last thing Congress should be pursuing. We must uphold a state’s ability to enforce its own laws, while giving consumers a clear choice when feeding their families. This bill only damages those efforts.”
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced legislation that would levy a 0.03 percent tax on transactions of stocks, bonds and derivatives to discourage the same speculative financial trading that led to the 2008 Wall Street collapse and 2010 ‘Flash Crash’. Revenue could be directed to programs that strengthen Main Street American families. The Putting Main Street FIRST Act: Finishing Irresponsible Reckless Speculative Trading would provide billions of dollars in revenue each year by taxing three basis points, or three pennies for every hundred dollars, on most financial trading including stocks, bonds, and other transactions. According to the Joint Committee for Taxation, the tax would raise $417 billion over ten years, which could be used to fund national priorities such as free higher education or job-creating infrastructure repair. The legislation is supported by the AFL-CIO, Americans for Financial Reform, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, the Communications Workers of America, and Public Citizen. “Thanks to the reckless greed of Wall Street over the past few decades, the American economy is a grossly unbalanced playing field,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “The only way we can level it is if we rein in reckless speculative financial trading and curb near-instantaneous high-volume trades that create instability in the stock market and our national economy. These financial practices have no intrinsic value, and exist to make a quick buck for already-wealthy speculators. If we want to give middle-class families a fair shot at a strong economy that works for all Americans, we need to put Main Street FIRST.” “The ‘Putting Main Street First Act’ will help encourage long-term investing, fund badly needed public investment and make our tax code fairer for working people,” said AFL-CIO Director of Policy Damon Silvers. “Given the massive costs of the financial crisis and its devastating impact on families across the country -- and on the wealth of minority communities in particular -- it is long past time for Wall Street to pay its fair share in taxes, said Lisa Donner, Executive Director of Americans for Financial Reform. “We applaud Representative DeFazio's financial transaction tax proposal; a Wall Street speculation tax would not only help move our financial markets away from dangerous high-frequency trading, but also raise significant revenue to address unmet needs.” “This tax is a great way to raise money for the federal government by making the financial sector more efficient,” said Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. “The cost of the tax will be fully covered by the savings from reduced trading. This means that the ordinary investor will be left unharmed by this tax. The only people who feel the impact will be the short-term traders and the financial intermediaries.” “Our Take on Wall Street coalition is determined to end to the finance industry’s practice not paying its fair share of taxes and sticking working families with the bill. We’re proud to join with Congressman DeFazio in putting working families and Main Street first, by setting a small fee on the billions of dollars of Wall Street trade that happen every day. Not only would this raise more than $400 billion to help families and communities, it would put the brakes on risky Wall Street behavior that threatens our economy,” said CWA President Chris Shelton. “This bill is good policy and good precedent,” said Lisa Gilbert, Director of Public Citizen’s Congress Watch Division. “Not only would taxing Wall Street trades grow revenue, it would stop the sorts of high-speed trading that adds volatility to our markets and increases costs for everyday investors and the public. Reining in Wall Street by stopping dangerous speculation is the right thing to do, and Public Citizen applauds Representative DeFazio and other champions for their support of this critical reform.” -30-
07.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation that will advance aviation safety, improve airline travel for passengers, and facilitate the use of drones to assist with wildfire fighting efforts and prevention. As the top Democrat on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) was the lead Democratic negotiator in the House of Representatives on the bill, which reauthorizes and provides funding for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through September 2017. “This legislation includes victories for Oregon and Western communities that battle wildfires every summer. It includes my provision directing the FAA to expedite permissions for federal agencies to use drones as tools to better fight these catastrophic fires and better protect the thousands of firefighters who put themselves in harm’s way to fight them. It also includes my provisions to prevent unauthorized drone operators from interfering with or endangering firefighters battling western wildfires. Someone who jeopardizes the safety of firefighters in the air, on the ground, and in the communities under threat of wildfire should get more than a minor slap on the wrist. “The legislation includes critical safety provisions that will better protect passengers and crew in the skies with enhanced mental health screening requirements for pilots and new policies to prevent potential hacking of airplane computer systems. The legislation will also protect consumers. This bill will require a prompt refund of baggage fees whenever airlines lose or fail to deliver checked baggage within a specific timeframe, and it will help families traveling with children sit together on the plane. In addition, the bill will help FAA address air traffic controller shortages by making it easier to hire experienced controllers. “While I would have rather moved a comprehensive long-term FAA reauthorization, this legislation reflects a bipartisan compromise that provides over a year of certainty and includes a number of time-sensitive safety and security provisions that will better protect our nation’s airspace and air travelers.” said DeFazio. To see Ranking Member DeFazio’s floor speech on the FAA reauthorization, click here. Key Oregon Victories Preventing Unauthorized Drone Operators from Interfering with Wildfire Firefighting Efforts- DeFazio secured a provision that increases the maximum civil penalty to $20,000 for drone operations that interfere with emergency response activities or wildfire suppression efforts. The current maximum civil penalty for an individual is $1,100. According to the U.S. Forest Service, since the beginning of 2016 there have been nearly a dozen drones spotted over wildfires and near fire suppressant aircraft. The sightings and near-misses have forced the Forest Service to stop and ground wildfire air support, delaying firefighting efforts in the air and endangering efforts on the ground. Authorizes Drone Support of Firefighting Operations- DeFazio secured a provision that will help communities dealing with catastrophic wildfires by streamlining federal interagency cooperation in deploying drones to help support wildfire firefighting operations. Supports Drone Innovation and Oregon Drone Test Sites- The legislation reauthorizes the FAA’s pilot program for the FAA designated UAS test sites. This includes Oregon test ranges in Tillamook, Pendleton, and the Warm Springs Reservation. These test sites help support innovation and growth in the multi-billion dollar industry and they provide commercial drone operators with essential infrastructure to test drone integration in the national airspace. Key Safety Victories Enhanced Mental Health Screening for Airline Pilots- In response to the 2015 Germanwings crash, the legislation requires the FAA to consider the recommendations of the Pilot Fitness Aviation Rulemaking Committee in determining whether to implement additional screening for mental health conditions as part of a comprehensive medical certification process for pilots. Laser Pointer Incidents- Requires the FAA, in coordination with other Federal law enforcement agencies, to provide quarterly updates to Congress regarding the number of incidents involving a laser beam pointer being aimed at, or in the flight path of, an aircraft. This provision also raises the maximum civil penalty to $25,000. Aviation Cybersecurity- The legislation requires the FAA to develop a comprehensive and strategic framework of principles and policies to reduce aviation cybersecurity risks and prevent the potential hacking of airplane computer systems. This provision addresses major concerns raised in a 2015 government watchdog report requested by DeFazio. Controller Staffing- In an effort to ease controller staffing shortages, the legislation requires the FAA to overhaul its air traffic controller hiring practice to among other things: (1) provide preferential consideration to controllers who have at least 52 weeks of prior controller experience; (2) eliminate the biographical assessment for collegiate/military applicants; and (3) raise the maximum entry age from 31 to 35 for experience controller applicants. Passenger Rights Refunds for Delayed Baggage- The legislation requires an airline to promptly provide a refund passenger baggage fees if the bags are lost or delayed for an extended period after the passenger’s arrival. Protecting Families Flying Together- The legislation will require the Secretary of Transportation to consider establishing policy directing air carriers to better accommodate families flying together by assigning adjacent seats for passengers traveling with children younger than 13.
07.05.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded the Coos Bay Rail Line $11 million to rehabilitate nine crumbling tunnels along the critical rail link between Eugene and Coquille. The grant was awarded through the newly-established Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program, which was created to fund projects that will boost economic growth and support the movement freight throughout our transportation system. Coos Bay’s application was one of only 18 selected for funding among a total of 212 submitted from across the nation. DeFazio supported the project and requested the DOT grant in a May 2016 letter sent to the U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx. He also personally spoke to the DOT Deputy Secretary Victor Mendez last month asking that this project be funded. “This is great news for southwest Oregon. This project will create good, living-wage jobs and spur needed economic development in rural communities that have struggled for decades. All nine of the tunnels along the line are at or near 100 years old and in desperate need of repair or rehabilitation due to deferred maintenance from the previous owners of the line. This funding will greatly improve the safety and reliability of train operations, result in a reduction in emissions and highway congestion as more cargo switches from truck to rail, and offer a long-term, low-cost option for shippers. I congratulate the Port of Coos Bay and look forward to continuing our work to improve this critical transportation link and economic engine for the South Coast,” said DeFazio. The Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program was established in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which passed the United States Congress and was signed into law in December 2015. As the top Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, DeFazio was a lead negotiator and pushed for the freight program, which dedicated a portion of the overall funding for freight projects in rural communities. The Port’s grant application proposed a complete rehabilitation of the tunnels along the Coos Bay Rail Line to bring them up to a good operating condition. The line traverses nine tunnels over an 82-mile section between Coquille and Eugene, all of which are 100 years old. The age of these tunnels, combined with the general environment of the Oregon coast and the Coast Range Mountains, have cause deterioration and drainage issues in the tunnels and on the track. Safety concerns over tunnel conditions were cited as the primary reason the line was shut down in 2007. The funding will be granted in 60 days. HISTORY The Coos Bay Line was closed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) in September 2007, with just one-days’ notice to shippers, resulting in severe economic impacts to businesses in Southwest Oregon. DeFazio testified before the Federal Surface Transportation Board to encourage them to approve the Port of Coos Bay’s application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. DeFazio also secured $8 million in federal funds in March 2009, to help the Port of Coos Bay buy the rail line. The Port restored freight rail service in 2011—thanks in large part to investments made by the State of Oregon and the Federal government. These investments have helped move over 24,000 truckloads off the roads and onto the rail line annually. In 2014, the Port of Coos Bay conducted an economic impact study to look at the regional transportation benefits of the Coos Bay Rail Line, and found that the restoration of the rail line saved $1.06 million in improved highway safety, over $766,000 in highway maintenance savings, and emissions savings of $453,000. --30--
06.28.2016	Today, members of Oregon’s congressional delegation sent a letter to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Craig Fugate, strongly urging the agency to work closely with Oregon communities on FEMA’s plan to implement changes to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). These new NFIP requirements could severely impact—and in some cases prohibit— economic and residential development on private property due to the potential of adverse impacts to threatened or endangered species and their habitat. Led by Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR), the letter was co-signed by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley, and Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR). “In Oregon, 271 communities depend on the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to provide flood insurance. The many waterways that contribute to Oregon’s natural beauty and robust economy also make our state prone to flooding. Given the reach and importance of the NFIP in Oregon, it is essential that it is administered with the utmost transparency and clarity,” the members write. They go on to add, “With some of the strongest land use laws in the country, Oregonians deserve a collaborative process with FEMA on NFIP RPA implementation— one that addresses protection of salmon and steelhead habitat, but is also economically and socially feasible.” In 2009, FEMA was sued in U.S. District Court in Oregon for failing to ensure that the NFIP complies with the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The action resulted in a settlement agreement which required FEMA to consult with the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS) on a Biological Opinion under ESA and propose changes to the program through Reasonable and Prudent Alternatives (RPA), or alternative actions needed to avoid jeopardizing an endangered species or adversely modifying critical habitat. FEMA administers the National Flood Insurance Program and NMFS consults on the Endangered Species Act. The final draft of the RPA calls for drastic changes to the NFIP which would have an unprecedented impact on economic growth, job creation, opportunities for affordable housing and development in communities across the State of Oregon. The members sent the letter to Administrator Fugate in response to a letter FEMA recently sent to Oregon communities stating that NFIP communities need to either stop all development in areas at risk of flooding once every 100 years (which includes hundreds of miles of Eugene, Springfield, the Oregon coast, and Portland), or implement yet-to-be-developed interim measures to mitigate potential impacts to species and habitat. FEMA goes on to threaten that communities that do not comply with their instructions will face enforcement actions. The letter points out that this RPA forces FEMA to use the NFIP to regulate land use, which is beyond FEMA’s legal authority related to floodplain management. DeFazio, together with the Oregon delegation, request that FEMA issue clear guidelines and timelines to ensure that Oregon communities are not subject to restrictive federal mandates that negatively impact economic growth. They urge FEMA to work closely with Oregon’s NFIP communities and state partners to establish mitigation and compliance measures that are not overly burdensome and do not exceed FEMA’s legal authority. HISTORY Specifically, the changes to the NFIP include severe restrictions and in some cases absolute prohibition of future development in floodplains and riparian buffer zones, and changes to regulatory definitions that would substantially increase floodways and Special Flood Hazard Areas. The changes also include moving land use regulation from local authority to federal authority under FEMA and the issuance of new maps for all Oregon communities by 2022 that take into account future shifting rainfall and snowfall patterns due to climate change and future unknown land use changes based on increasing population growth. Over the last two and a half years, Congressman DeFazio engaged FEMA and NMFS, as well as the Council for Environmental Quality at the White House, to express his concerns with a process that obstructs the input of the impacted communities, oversteps FEMA’s statutory authority and applies a draconian one-size-fits-all approach to a state that already has strong land-use policies that, together with federal laws, work to protect endangered species. To read additional background information, click here. A full copy of the letter can be found below. June 28, 2016 W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate: In Oregon, 271 communities depend on the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to provide flood insurance. The many waterways that contribute to Oregon’s natural beauty and robust economy also make our state prone to flooding. Given the reach and importance of the NFIP in Oregon, it is essential that it is administered with the utmost transparency and clarity. We are deeply concerned about recent steps FEMA has taken to implement the Reasonable and Prudent Alternative (RPA) in the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) Biological Opinion on changes to NFIP. On June 13, 2016 FEMA Region X sent letters to National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) communities in Oregon addressing changes to Oregon’s NFIP structure that would be occurring over the next four and half years. Although we understand this letter may have served to fulfill a requirement to provide notice of NMFS April 14, 2016 Biological Opinion and Reasonable and Prudent Alternative (RPA), the letter was confusing and alarming to many who received it. We understand that FEMA is responding to NMFS’s Biological Opinion and RPA, which assumes FEMA will exceed its congressionally authorized authorities by requiring communities to prohibit private development in order to participate in the NFIP. This is all the more reason for FEMA to work closely with Oregon’s NFIP communities and state partners to establish mitigation and compliance measures that are not overly burdensome and do not exceed FEMA’s legal authority. The letter explains that there are two stages of implementation— interim measures over the next two years and permanent program changes to the NFIP. It also suggests that NFIP communities have the following options: “voluntarily impose a temporary moratorium on all floodplain development that adversely impacts ESA listed species or their habitat, or voluntarily implement the interim measures found in RPA element 2.” Voluntarily imposing a temporary moratorium on all floodplain development that could adversely impact Endangered Species Act (ESA) listed species or their habitat is not an option for Oregon NFIP communities. Communities cannot be expected to implement these or any other measures without thorough guidance and consultation with FEMA. The letter is particularly disappointing because it threatens enforcement action against communities but does not offer a timeline for when that reporting requirement is expected to take effect or guidance on how communities can fulfill reporting requirements. Requirements to mitigate potential impacts to species and habitat, per the RPA, will be necessary, but responsibility for providing acceptable mitigation options falls to FEMA. FEMA needs to provide clear guidelines on how and when communities must comply with revised NFIP requirements. Oregon is one of the first states affected by significant changes to the NFIP based on ESA, Section 7 consultations, but NFIP communities across the nation will also be subject to program changes in the future. Because Oregon is at the forefront of nationwide NFIP changes, it is in the best interest of FEMA to get implementation in the state right. Therefore, we suggest that FEMA increase staffing resources in Oregon throughout the implementation process in order to better communicate with every NFIP community in the state. We also ask that community input and concerns be considered and responded to at every step of the implementation process. With some of the strongest land use laws in the country, Oregonians deserve a collaborative process with FEMA on NFIP RPA implementation— one that addresses protection of salmon and steelhead habitat, but is also economically and socially feasible. Thank you for your attention to our concerns and taking leadership on establishing a clear, transparent, and collaborative process. We look forward to a response to this letter that includes an update on how FEMA plans to increase staffing resources, communicate more clearly, and seriously consider community input throughout this process. Sincerely, ______________________________ ______________________________ PETER DeFAZIO RON WYDEN Member of Congress United States Senator ______________________________ ______________________________ JEFF MERKLEY EARL BLUMENAUER United States Senator Member of Congress ______________________________ ______________________________ KURT SCHRADER SUZANNE BONAMICI Member of Congress Member of Congress --30--
06.23.2016	“I’ve been fighting for years to ensure consumers get what they want -- access to information about the food they eat,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “Today’s agreement in the Senate to create a federal labeling system for genetically engineered foods falls preposterously short of what consumers want, which is to clearly and simply identify whether or not the food they purchase contains GMOs. This so-called ‘deal’ is nothing more than another big industry giveaway designed to deny consumers the right to know what’s in their food. Furthermore, this legislation would preempt state rights and block states like Oregon, Vermont, and many others from making their own decisions about GMO labeling. I hope the Senate opposes this deal and sends negotiators back to the table. In the meantime I will continue to stand by consumers and fight for strong, federal mandatory labeling standards.”
06.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Representative Greg Walden (R-OR) urged the Department of Transportation (DOT) to quickly finalize critical safety rules that will better protect communities and environmentally sensitive areas from catastrophic crude oil train accidents. The letter was sent in response to a June 3rd oil train accident, when 16 rail cars from a 96-car Union Pacific crude oil train derailed near Mosier, Oregon. At least one rail car transporting Bakken crude ruptured, several cars caught fire, hundreds of residents were evacuated, and sheen has been detected on the river. “This accident, once again, raises the question of whether railroads should be required to re-route trains carrying flammable liquids around environmentally-sensitive areas like the Gorge and endangered communities. Congress has certainly done its part to address concerns. Now we are awaiting the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) action. The “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act” (FAST Act), enacted on December 4, 2015, when implemented, will make significant improvements to the transportation of crude-by-rail, as well as other hazardous materials,” the members write. As a top negotiator on the FAST Act, DeFazio successfully included a number of key provisions to increase safety, require railroads to disclose hazardous cargo and develop comprehensive oil spill response plans, and help emergency responders react to catastrophic oil train accidents. In their letter, DeFazio and Walden asked DOT for an update on industry’s progress in meeting the new mandates for improved rail tank cars and the status of a rule requiring railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans that are crucial for adequately preparing federal, state, local, and regional emergency response teams. DeFazio and Walden have heard from a number of communities that little information has been shared with them on the potential consequences of a spill, and that plans for coordinating with federal, state, local and regional response teams and the railroads should a spill occur have not been set-forth. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. A copy of the letter is included below. June 10, 2016 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Mr. Secretary: We have long been concerned about the impacts of a crude oil train derailment in and around the Columbia River Gorge and what it would mean for local residents and surrounding natural resources. Those concerns became all-too-real on June 3rd when 16 rail cars from a 96-car Union Pacific crude oil train derailed near Mosier, Oregon. At least one rail car transporting Bakken crude ruptured, several cars caught fire, hundreds of residents were evacuated, and sheen has now been detected on the river. This accident, once again, raises the question of whether railroads should be required to re-route trains carrying flammable liquids around environmentally-sensitive areas like the Gorge and endangered communities. Congress has certainly done its part to address concerns. Now we are awaiting the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) action. The “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act” (FAST Act) (Public Law 114-94), enacted on December 4, 2015, when implemented, will make significant improvements to the transportation of crude-by-rail, as well as other hazardous materials. The bill: Required each Class I railroad transporting any hazardous material to provide accurate, real-time information, including the identity, quantity, and location of hazardous materials on each train, to fusion centers, state and local emergency responders, and law enforcement personnel; Directed each Class I railroad to provide advanced notification and detailed information, including routes, on the movement of trains transporting crude to each state emergency response commission; Phased-out or required retrofitting of all DOT-111 and CPC-1232 tank cars used to transport flammable liquids; Required each tank car built or retrofitted to the new standard be equipped with an insulating blanket and top fittings to mitigate releases during accidents; Established a competitive grant program to assist communities in preparing for and responding to hazardous materials incidents, including crude-by-rail; Reauthorized funding for hazardous materials training grants to states for emergency responder training; and Required regular reporting to Congress on the status of a final rule to require railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans. Additionally, the bill required regular reporting to Congress on industry-wide progress toward modifying rail tank cars. Although the first report is not due until December 1, 2016, we request a status update on implementation of the FAST Act directives and on the manufacture and modification of rail tank cars, including the number of DOT-111 and CPC-1232 tank cars that have been built or retrofitted to the new standards, the number of such tank cars that have been purchased and put in service by shippers and railroads, and the number of such tank cars currently in rail transportation compared to the number of older DOT-111 and CPC-1232s that fail to meet the new standard set forth by the DOT. As these new rail tank cars come online, we urge you to prioritize their use when flammable liquids are transported in National Scenic Areas like the Columbia River Gorge, as well as other environmentally sensitive areas. We also request an update on the status of a final rule requiring railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans, which are crucial for adequately preparing Federal, state, local and regional response teams to respond to an accident or incident involving the transportation of hazardous liquid, including crude oil, ethanol, and other petroleum-based products. They ensure that personnel are trained and available and equipment is in place to respond to a spill, and that procedures are established before a spill occurs. We have heard from many responders in Oregon that little information has been shared with them on the potential consequences of a spill, and that plans for coordinating with federal, state, local and regional response teams and the railroads should a spill occur have not been set-forth. This is especially true for areas where there is limited road access, such as the Columbia River Gorge or the Cascade Mountain Range. We are expecting a record breaking forest fire season again this year and communities need to know what the plan is for addressing accidents that could spark a fire. Responders are not able to determine a railroad’s worst-case discharge on their own, nor are they able to determine what specific resources are available or should be acquired, where those resources will be positioned, or what procedures are in place without significant input from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) and the railroads. While the railroads are providing some information to responders, it is not nearly enough to adequately prepare them for a potential spill. This has been echoed by the Government Accountability Office which is currently evaluating the adequacy of emergency response resources, including training, with respect to crude-by-rail trains. The fact is this rulemaking has languished for far too long at the DOT. Your last letter to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure stated that PHMSA is “working expeditiously” to issue a final rule by June 2017 and even that date, according to your letter, may be adjusted as PHMSA moves forward with the rulemaking process. That is nearly three years, at a minimum, after the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking was published and long after you have left office and a new administration that may or may not finalize this rulemaking is in place. In our view, this is far too long and the accident in the Gorge underscores that. We strongly urge you to re-assess your timeline and make finalizing this rulemaking a DOT priority. Thank you for your consideration of these matters and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO GREG WALDEN Ranking Member Member of Congress Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
06.08.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded House passage of the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (PIPES Act), bipartisan legislation that reauthorizes the Department of Transportation’s pipeline safety program. The legislation includes a number of critical safety measures that will better protect communities in Oregon and across the country. DeFazio was one of the lead Democratic negotiators and a cosponsor of the bipartisan collaboration between the House and the Senate. “The bipartisan PIPES Act includes critical reforms and new tools to protect communities across the country from serious accidents involving the transportation of natural gas and hazardous liquids by pipeline. The legislation provides new authority to allow the Secretary of Transportation to impose emergency restrictions and safety measures to protect the public in the event of a serious accident or unsafe operating practices. It also provides vital grant funding to help Oregon and other states run pipeline inspection programs. The legislation protects Oregon’s ability to impose stronger standards on its seven intrastate underground natural gas storage facilities. It will also better protect our coasts by ensuring pipelines traveling through Oregon’s coastal areas meet the highest safety standards. I was happy to help write and cosponsor this common sense legislation that will increase safety,” DeFazio said. To watch his floor statement on the PIPES Act, click here <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mfg2YQ7hFV8> . The PIPES Act authorizes $720 million over four years for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) operating expenses and pipeline safety program, including $211 million in grants to states. DeFazio was able to include several critical safety provisions in the legislation, including a provision that allows the Secretary of Transportation to impose certain emergency restrictions and safety measures on the pipeline industry to address an imminent hazard. He also secured a provision that requires oil pipeline operators to provide investigators and emergency responders with critical information about the product involved in spills within six hours of an accident. The legislation protects Oregon’s coastal communities by designating marine coastal waters and coastal beaches as “high-consequence areas.” As a result, pipeline operators will be forced to regularly inspect and repair pipelines in coastal areas and to consider impacts to navigable waters or adjoining shorelines in developing oil spill response plans. The PIPES Act passed the House unanimously.
06.06.2016	EUGENE—Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement on the Union Pacific train derailment that occurred in Mosier, OR last week: "Since Friday, I have been in close contact with the Federal Railroad Administration, Union Pacific, and the State of Oregon to learn more about how and why the derailment occurred. I am glad to hear that UP has decided to temporarily stop oil unit trains from running through the Gorge. As we learn more details, I will continue to work with stakeholders to figure out how best to assist in the cleanup and how we can better protect our communities in the future. “For years, I have worked to increase rail tank car safety standards and to help emergency responders prepare for rail accidents involving crude-by-rail. In fact, last year Congress passed legislation that requires railroads to provide advanced notification and information on high-hazard flammable trains to states. The legislation also included provisions I championed to require thermal-protection for rail tank cars and require railroads to retrofit, replace and phase out 40,000 additional rail tank cars to prevent catastrophic spills in accidents. “The Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) is currently working to implement those requirements. For months, I have been pushing PHMSA to implement a final rule requiring railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans, which has languished at PHMSA since 2014. PHMSA has informed me that it plans to issue the rule by June 2017 – that’s not acceptable and they could issue a direct final rule in a much shorter period of time. Finishing the rule in 2017 is far too long given these catastrophic accidents. I will continue to push PHMSA and Congress to better protect our communities and I will continue to help all local, state, and federal officials to deal with the emergency response."
06.02.2016	EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio today joined Brookings city officials to break ground on a critical water storage project at Brookings Airport that will bolster Southwestern Oregon’s disaster preparedness efforts and provide a significant economic development opportunity for the region. The project, a 500,000 gallon water storage tank, will service the Brookings airport, a designated staging area for disaster relief. In the event of a natural disaster or emergency, having adequate water and sewage facilities available at regional staging areas like the Brookings airport is necessary for disaster relief efforts. The new water tank will ensure that sufficient water supply will be available for Southwestern Oregon and Northern California if an emergency arises. The storage tank will also enhance wildfire protection preparedness and provide a reserve to sustain the city of Brookings’ water system if the municipal supply is disrupted. The tank will also bring new water and sewer services to the area and improve the Brookings airport’s available water pressure, increasing the city of Brookings’ infrastructure capacity and drawing new business to the area. Rep. DeFazio helped to secure $1.7 million from the Commerce Department for the project and was a key negotiator with federal and local stakeholders on the terms of the project. Due to burdensome Federal Aviation Administration regulations, the project was nearly scrapped until Rep. DeFazio stepped in and brokered an agreement. “In case of an emergency, Oregon’s communities need to have the resources in place to respond and rebuild,” said Rep. DeFazio. “This project is not only an investment in disaster preparedness but in the City of Brookings. Thanks to onerous regulations from the FAA, this project very nearly never got off the ground, but I’m proud that my office was able to cut through the red tape to deliver this vital project to Southwestern Oregon.”
05.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—At the start of a busy travel weekend, Ranking Members of the House Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Homeland Security Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), along with Representative Bob Dold (R-IL), introduced bipartisan legislation that would help ease congestion and long lines at TSA screening checkpoints at airports. In 2013, Congress began diverting one-third of the revenue collected from the airline passenger security fees to offset unrelated government spending. The FASTER Act, H.R. 5340, would ensure that passenger security fees only go towards aviation security and prevent Congress from raiding the funds in the future. “At airports across the country, people are forced to wait in long security lines like cattle, causing many to miss their flight,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio, Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “To add insult to injury, funding to help fix the wait times exists – it’s just being diverted. I doubt most passengers know that a portion of the security fee they pay with every flight is being used for other purposes. With peak travel season starting this weekend, Congress needs to direct all of the designated funds towards the intended purpose in order to improve the efficiency of airport screening and keep passengers safe.” “The airport security checkpoint wait times crisis did not occur overnight,” said Rep. Bennie Thompson, Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Committee. “To make sustained and measurable improvements, TSA needs an infusion of resources to be able to invest in its people and technology. TSA cannot continue to rely on temporary band-aids by moving around limited homeland security dollars. The fact that each year over a billion dollars of the fees TSA collects from every flyer is being diverted away from aviation security is a big part of the problem. The bipartisan bill we are introducing today will allow TSA to retain the fees it collects so it can properly staff airports around the country, operate as effectively as possible, and secure the American public.” “The unnecessarily long lines for screening at O’Hare and Midway are absolutely unacceptable and have been caused in no small part because a bill that was passed in 2013 played political games with TSA’s budget,” Rep. Bob Dold said. “9/11 security fees being charged to airline passengers should be used only to make flying a safe and burden-free experience, but right now the government is taking money from passengers to make up for years of unrelated and out-of-control spending. Our bill puts passengers before politics to ensure that there are no more missed flights because of long lines and political gimmicks.” In Fiscal Year 2015, passengers paid $3.5 billion in aviation security fees. However, only $2.3 billion of this amount was used to help offset the $6.8 billion cost of TSA’s aviation security expenses. In total, under current law, $15.8 billion will be diverted from TSA aviation security screening to the General Fund. While this money has been diverted, the number of airline travelers has increased substantially. Because of TSA staffing shortages and increased security measures, airport security lines across the country have become longer, with passengers sometimes waiting in line for hours or missing flights. The FASTER Act would redirect over $14 billion in funding back to the TSA, so they can begin to address personnel shortages, decrease passenger wait times, and ensure a more efficient screening experience. “To provide TSA with additional resources, Congress should immediately end the practice of diverting $1.25 billion this year and $15 billion over the course of the decade away from TSA’s core mission,” Airports Council International-North America President and CEO Kevin M. Burke said. “Our passengers deserve better, especially considering they pay for civil aviation security services through the 9/11 Passenger Security Fee every time they buy a plane ticket. They should be getting their money's worth instead of subsidizing other federal spending. The bipartisan DeFazio-Thompson-Dold bill is the right solution.” "We applaud the leadership of Representatives DeFazio, Thompson and Dold for introducing this legislation that ensures that 9/11 fees are used as they were intended--to pay for passenger security," said Nicholas E. Calio, President and CEO of Airlines for America. "There is nothing more important than the safety and security of our passengers and crewmembers, and we urge Congress to pass this legislation that will direct resources to be spent to more effectively and efficiently protect the traveling public." Congress has recently approved Homeland Security’s request to reprogram $34 million to the TSA for the expedited hiring of screeners and for overtime pay for current security staff; however, the funds are not enough to make up the significant backlog. The Department of Homeland Security also requested an additional $28 million late Thursday night. Click here to see Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on TSA funding. Click here to read a summary of the FASTER Act.
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Peter DeFazio (D-OR), applauded Committee passage of critical legislation that will strengthen coastal communities, and create and sustain needed jobs. This legislation, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA), authorizes funding for Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) navigation, flood control and environmental restoration projects, directly benefiting Oregon’s small ports. “This bill is a huge victory for Oregon’s coastal communities. This legislation will create and sustain jobs on the coast, make conditions safer for Oregon’s fishing and recreation industries, and boost our state and nation’s economic competitiveness. I am happy that the legislation includes my provision to guarantee that small ports will receive a minimum of $90 million annually and no less than 10 percent of the Corps’ overall Operations and Maintenance funding each year for critical infrastructure needs. Also, for the first time, it guarantees that funds collected in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will not be diverted and will only be used for their intended purpose—harbor maintenance. I commend my colleagues for their bipartisan work and I look forward to moving this legislation through the House,” said DeFazio. As a key negotiator on the bipartisan legislation, DeFazio successfully secured a provision that guarantees the nation’s small ports will permanently receive at least 10 percent of annual funding provided for dredging across the country. This set-aside will help to address the critical needs of small ports in Southwest Oregon, and will generate additional revenue over time as Congress provides more funding to the Corps. For years, the federal government has neglected to invest in our nation’s small ports and harbors. DeFazio has fought repeatedly during his time in Congress to secure federal funds to dredge small ports along Oregon’s south coast. In 2014, he secured a provision that temporarily boosted funding for small, emerging ports. The legislation passed today makes that provision permanent. DeFazio also secured a provision that ensures 100 percent utilization of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) for harbor maintenance and dredging by 2027. When Congress created the HMTF, it was understood that that the fees and taxes collected from industry and deposited into the trust fund would be used to support the nation’s network of ports. Currently only about half of the funds collected through the HMTF are used for harbor maintenance. This legislation ensures that money intended to dredge the nation’s coastal and inland commercial ports actually goes towards the Corps’ backlog of projects, rather than being used as an offset for general government spending. Additional highlights of the legislation: The legislation includes a DeFazio provision that directs the federal government to fund a study of the conditions of federal breakwaters and jetties that protect the nation’s coastal ports. Like levees and dams before, the condition of the nation’s water-related infrastructure is deteriorating. This federal study will provide necessary information detailing the true state of our jetties so Congress can take future steps to address the backlog of critical projects; DeFazio secured a provision that increases federal transparency by requiring the Corps to make publicly available all data related to federal dredging contracts, including volumes, federal cost estimates, winning bid price, and other submitted bid offers; This legislation will remove an unnecessary land-use restriction at Cascade Lock and Dam in Oregon, which will allow Cascade Locks to expand and develop jobs within their business park; DeFazio secured language directing the Corps to look at the potential for historical, cultural, economic, and recreational aspects of disposing of Corps-owned assets. This will benefit Willamette Falls Locks in Clackamas County, Oregon, which was closed by the Corps in 2011; The legislation included the authorization of federal funding for the Lower Willamette River Environmental Dredging and Ecosystem Restoration Project, which will restore ecosystem functions by reconnecting floodplain habitat to the river and improving fish and wildlife habitats. The legislation must now be considered by the full House. Similar legislation, S. 2848, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, was approved by the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works in April and is awaiting action by the full Senate.
05.16.2016	Today, Oregon Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Congressman Peter Defazio announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded Umpqua Community College (UCC) $529,623 to help the UCC community recover from the mass shooting that occurred on campus last fall. The funding comes after Senators Merkley and Wyden and Congressman Defazio sent a letter of support to the Department of Education for the School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) grant program. SERV grants are awarded to schools where the learning environment has been disrupted by a violent or traumatic event. “The level of trauma that the UCC community has been through over the past year is incomparable and the healing process is still underway,” said Merkley. “This funding will help make sure the students, faculty, and staff get the support and counseling they might need so the whole community can focus on educating and training students.” “All of us as Oregonians should be very proud of the students, instructors and staff at Umpqua Community College as well as Roseburg for coming together in the face of unspeakable tragedy,” Wyden said. “I am also proud to have supported the college’s application for this grant, and know that the college deserves full federal support focusing on emergency response to violence. I will remain committed to UCC as the entire community continues to restore their campus.” “This grant will help the UCC community continue to rebuild and recover in the aftermath of last fall’s devastating shooting by providing much-needed assistance to address the school’s ongoing needs, including mental health services and campus improvements,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “I’m proud to have been able to help UCC receive this grant, which will improve the school’s future security and recovery efforts. I will continue to work to ensure that Roseburg and UCC both have the resources necessary to move forward and heal.” The UCC community has struggled to recover from the devastating events on October 1, 2015. The magnitude of the emotional toll that UCC has experienced has been immense and staggering. In addition to the disruption of instructional time, the yearly school schedule was paused. Instead of proceeding with the planned deadline to set final class schedules, UCC staff and students had to focus on recovering and rebuilding. In addition, financial aid disbursements that were in progress when the incident occurred were delayed. Given UCC’s high percentage of students who need financial aid to attend college, this disruption impacted students’ educational progress and living expenses.\ The federal funding announced today will help UCC to cover costs associated with the devastating events of last fall and reimburse the college for costs incurred. The funding will also help to fund a Student Support and Wellness Director, a Recovery Advising Specialty, a Mental Health Therapist and additional security personnel. ###
05.12.2016	Statement from Rep. Peter DeFazio on Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act “I applaud the much-needed discussion on the widespread problem of opioid abuse taking place this week in Congress. This is a devastating public health crisis affecting families across Oregon, and I’m encouraged that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have presented legislative ideas to address the issue. “That being said, ideas are not enough. “It is not enough to create a new grant program that promises to help combat opioid abuse, as H.R. 5046 does, without securing robust funding for the program in order to help the thousands of Americans struggling with addiction. Without proper resources, the grant program created by this legislation would do very little to address the epidemic of addiction that is killing hundreds of Americans each week. “I’m proud to be a co-sponsor of legislation that would provide the necessary funding for programs that expand access to treatment for opioid users, gives law enforcement the resources they need to combat this growing problem, and provides communities the tools they need to fund prevention and treatment efforts. “It is imperative that Congress take meaningful action against this growing crisis. I urge my colleagues to consider legislation that fully funds these new programs rather than hollow ideas.”
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON—Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio testified before the Ways & Means Committee’s Tax Policy Subcommittee on the impact that H.R. 2903, the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act, would have on America’s small brewers. H.R. 2903 would reduce the excise tax on barrels of beer brewed from $7 per barrel to $3.50 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels brewed. This would provide significant tax relief for America’s small brewers and help to generate investment in small businesses across the country. The bill would also reduce the federal excise tax on wineries and distilleries. “Congressman DeFazio has long been a champion for America’s small, Main Street brewers in Oregon and across the country,” said Bob Pease, President and CEO of the Brewers Association. “He truly is a leading voice in the Congress for small brewers and small businesses generally. His testimony today in support of the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act before the House Ways and Means Committee is greatly appreciated by the Brewers Association, the national trade association for America’s small brewers, and brewers all across the country.” Rep. DeFazio is the founder and co-chairman of the House Small Brewer’s Caucus, which is dedicated to the issues affecting America’s 4,225 small breweries. Rep. DeFazio’s written testimony of today’s hearing can be found below. For a video of Rep. DeFazio’s testimony, click here. # # # The Honorable Peter DeFazio Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee Member Day Hearing on Tax Legislation May 12, 2016 Thank you Chairman Boustany, Ranking Member Neal, Members of the Subcommittee and colleagues. I appreciate the opportunity to speak before you today. I have the honor of being the founder and co-chairman of the House Small Brewers Caucus. The caucus, created in 2007, is dedicated to issues affecting America’s small brewers and currently includes 207 members representing 43 states. There are now close to 4,300 breweries in the United States, the most in the history of this country including during the pre-prohibition era. Brewers are true craftsmen creating a uniquely American product. The rest of the world, even Europe, is envious of American microbrews. Craft brewers aren’t just creating a delicious world class product but they are also small businessmen and women that support nearly half a million jobs in local communities across the country. They do all of this despite being one of the most highly regulated and taxed business sectors. For the most part, they are not wealthy. They operate with smaller margins and higher costs than other businesses. Even small changes in their client base can have a massive impact on their ability to survive. Craft brewers contribute $307 million annually in federal excise taxes. Small brewers that produce less than 2 million barrels of beer per year currently pay $7 in federal excise taxes per barrel of beer brewed on the first 60,000 barrels produced. After that, they pay a tax rate of $18 per barrel, the same tax rate as the largest brewers. H.R. 2903, the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act introduced by my colleague Representative Paulsen, would reduce the excise tax from $7 per barrel to $3.50 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels brewed. Additionally, the bill will reduce the tax rate from $18 per barrel to $16 per barrel for all brewers -large and small --on the first six million barrels. H.R. 2903 is a modest proposal that will go a long way in helping grow America’s small businesses. In order to expand a brewery and meet growing demand brewers have to purchase additional equipment and upgrade facilities; and brewing equipment is incredibly expensive. If H.R. 2903 is enacted the savings from reduced federal excise taxes will be directly invested into growing these small businesses thereby supporting more jobs. The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act will also reduce federal excise taxes for wineries and distilleries. This bipartisan bill has over 200 cosponsors and is supported by the Brewers Association, the National Beer Wholesalers Association, the Wine Institute, DISCUS, and many other organizations. I proudly admit that my home state of Oregon will benefit greatly from this bill. In Oregon we have nearly a thousand craft breweries, wineries, and distilleries that contribute over $6 billion to the state’s economy. H.R. 2903 is not a special interest handout. It’s a commonsense proposal that will create jobs and generate investment for American small businesses. I urge you to consider this legislation and include it in any tax system reform proposals.
04.20.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded Committee passage of the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (PIPES Act), bipartisan legislation that reauthorizes the Department of Transportation’s pipeline safety programs. The legislation includes a number of critical safety measures that will better protect communities in Oregon and across the country. DeFazio was the lead Democratic negotiator and a cosponsor of the legislation. “The bipartisan PIPES Act includes critical reforms and new tools to protect communities across the country from serious accidents involving the transportation of natural gas and hazardous liquids by pipeline. The legislation provides critical new authority to allow the Secretary of Transportation to impose emergency restrictions and safety measures to protect the public in the event of a serious accident or unsafe operating practices. It also provides vital grant funding to help Oregon and other states run pipeline inspection programs. The legislation protects Oregon’s ability to strongly regulate its seven intrastate underground natural gas storage facilities. It will also better protect our coasts by ensuring pipelines traveling through Oregon coastal areas and navigable waters have higher safety standards and stricter regulations. I was happy to help write and cosponsor this bipartisan legislation and will push to move it through the House,” DeFazio said. To watch his opening statement on the PIPES Act, click here. The PIPES Act authorizes $696 million over four years for Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) operating expenses and pipeline safety program, including $211 million in grants to States. DeFazio was able to include several critical safety provisions in the legislation, including a provision that allows the Secretary of Transportation to impose certain emergency restrictions and safety measures on the industry to address an imminent hazard. He also secured a provision that requires oil pipeline operators to provide investigators and emergency responders with critical information about the product involved in spills within six hours of an accident. The PIPES Act passed the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee unanimously. Major Victories Improvements to State Programs. The bill boosts funding for grants to States to help them run their pipeline safety programs, which Oregon’s Public Utility Commission requested. It also streamlines the process for States to get grants and allows States to participate in joint inspections with PHMSA on interstate pipeline facilities. The bill provides $1.1 million annually in grants to help states like Oregon protect residents and communities from pipeline accidents through One-Call programs. Underground Natural Gas Storage Facilities. The bill requires PHMSA to establish safety standards for underground natural gas storage tanks in response to the Aliso Canyon, California methane leak. The provision ensures States have the authority to go above and beyond federal regulations for regulating intrastate facilities. Oregon has seven intrastate facilities and no interstate facilities. Protects Coastal Areas. The bill includes two provisions to protect coastal areas. The first provision requires oil spill response plans to consider the impact of a discharge into navigable waters and adjoining shorelines. The second provision requires the Great Lakes and marine coastal waters to be considered high-consequence areas (HCAs). Pipeline operators are required to regularly inspect and make repairs to pipelines in HCAs. This provision will help ensure that pipelines going though Oregon coastal areas have codified requirements for more inspections and higher safety standards. Emergency Order Authority: The bill provides the Secretary with new authority to impose certain emergency restrictions and safety measures on pipeline operators to address an imminent hazard resulting from an incident or an unsafe practice. This authority is similar to the Federal Railroad Administration’s emergency authority, which was used to require railroads to adopt certain safety measures for the transportation of crude oil. Safety Data Sheets: The bill requires oil pipeline operators to provide investigators with Safety Data Sheets (SDS) within 6 hours of a spill. A SDS provides the exact composition of the product that is being transported and includes specific information on proper emergency response. After the Enbridge spill in Marshall, Michigan, Enbridge gave a generic crude oil SDS to investigators and didn’t provide the actual SDS for the product until two weeks later. To read a section-by-section analysis of the legislation, click here. To read a summary memo, click here. --30--
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON—In advance of Tax Day, Rep. Peter DeFazio today introduced legislation that would amend the U.S. Constitution to include a balanced budget amendment. The amendment requires any legislation that would increase the nation’s deficit to be approved by three-fifths of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Each year, the President will be required to submit a balanced budget to Congress. “This weekend, millions of Americans will file their taxes and put their hard-earned dollars in the government’s coffers,” said Rep. DeFazio. “It’s Congress’s duty to be responsible stewards of taxpayer dollars—not to throw millions of dollars after weapons programs we don’t need, subsidies that special interests don’t deserve, and tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans. Congress can and must balance our budget and get our fiscal house in order.” The legislation would require any military conflict that is not a congressionally-declared war to be counted as part of the budget. Currently, the Department of Defense receives billions of “off-budget” dollars annually to fund military operations. The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost U.S. taxpayers over $1 trillion dollars, and despite dragging on for over a decade, are still considered “emergency off-budget spending” and none of it is paid for. If Rep. DeFazio’s balanced budget amendment is enacted, spending for these and similar operations would have to be included in the annual budget. Congress will have the authority to waive the amendment in years when a declaration of war is in effect. In addition, Rep. DeFazio’s legislation would protect Social Security and Medicare from being raided in order to pay for other government spending. To see Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on his balanced budget legislation, click here. # # #
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio announced today that two grants for critical repairs and upgrades have been awarded to airports in Gold Beach and Albany, OR. The grants, totaling nearly $400,000, were awarded from the Department of Transportation. One of the grants will fund the replacement of the rotating beacon at the Gold Beach Municipal Airport, which will help safely guide pilots flying aircraft at night or in difficult weather conditions. The second grant will fund the design of an extended runway at the Albany Municipal Airport which will improve safety and enhance the airport’s ability as a driver of economic growth in the mid-Willamette Valley. The grant will also fund the rehabilitation of the airport’s existing apron—which is the area where airplanes park, refuel, and load or unload passengers. “Both of these airports are an economic hub for their communities,” said Rep. DeFazio. “These funds will go towards securing not only the safety of those who fly in and out of the airports, but the jobs of Oregonians who work in these communities. I will keep working to ensure that Oregon’s community airports meet the highest standards possible. ” # # #
04.13.2016	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) urged the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to reconsider two proposals that would significantly delay Amtrak train travel throughout Oregon and the United States. The STB recently proposed that freight railroads, not passenger rail service, should have priority on shared rail lines across the United States. This proposal ignores a federal law that clearly states Amtrak has preference over rail lines. The STB also proposed a rule that Amtrak should only consider performance at the originating and terminating locations on a route when determining if a train is considered on-time. As a result, Amtrak would not be required to analyze track congestion or on-time performance at intermediary stops, which include Portland, Salem, Albany, and Eugene. Both of these measures would lead to significant delays on the Coast Starlight, and the Cascades routes through Oregon. “The law is incredibly clear: Congress’s intent was that Amtrak trains be given preference over freight rail transportation. Inexplicably, the Surface Transportation Board has decided to ignore current law and Congressional intent, and give priority to freight rail over passengers traveling by rail throughout the country. In addition, they will no longer be required to measure on-time performance at all intermediary Amtrak stations. If there are serious congestion issues or delays between Portland, Salem, Albany, and Eugene, Amtrak won’t be able to request an STB investigation and remedies for unacceptable delays. I strongly urge the STB to reconsider these short-sighted, unreasonable proposals,” DeFazio said. Video reaction to the STB proposals can be found here. BACKGROUND On December 28, 2015, the STB issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to determine a definition of “on-time performance” for purposes of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (PRIIA) and the Proposed Policy Statement on Preference for Amtrak trains. In both these instances, the Surface Transportation Board (STB or Board) has taken it upon itself to ignore current law and determine, inaccurately, Congressional intent. Under the new STB definition of “on-time performance”, Amtrak would only be required to monitor performance at originating and terminating locations on each rail route. Measuring performance only at the endpoints of Amtrak routes takes into account performance at only 10% of all Amtrak stations. It would leave performance within 24 states unmeasured altogether since those states have intermediate stations but no endpoint stations. It also ignores many routes experiencing significant delays between intermediary stops. In Oregon, performance would only be measured on some trains: where Portland and Eugene are the endpoints. The Coast Starlight wouldn’t be measured at all in Oregon, nor would the northbound Cascades trains (which Oregon pays for) that go beyond Portland to Seattle. On the Cascades alone, 359,135 of the 742,337, or close to 50% of all passengers, get off at intermediate stations. Those intermediate routes would not be considered for on-time performance and any significant delays on those routes would be ignored by the federal government. Amtrak’s current on-time performance on the Cascades is around 76% and the Coast Starlight, which stops in Eugene, currently runs on-time only 35% of the time. At the same time the Board issued the NPRM, it also issued a proposed Policy Statement to interpret what Congress meant by Amtrak “preference” in 1973. Current law clearly states that Amtrak passenger trains are to be given preference over freight trains. This was done in return for relieving freight railroads of money-losing passenger service in the 1970s when Amtrak was created. The Board’s Policy Statement essentially re-writes this federal law. STB would essentially allow freight trains to have priority over passenger trains. Amtrak believes that if the policy change is adopted, passenger trains running on tracks owned by freight railroads will experience a substantial increase in delays, as nearly 97 percent of the passenger railroad's route miles operate on host railroad tracks not owned by Amtrak. The letter can be found below. April 13, 2016 The Honorable Dan Elliott The Honorable Deb Miller Chairman Member Surface Transportation Board Surface Transportation Board 395 E Street, SW 395 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20423 Washington, DC 20423 The Honorable Ann Begeman Vice Chairman Surface Transportation Board 395 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20423 Dear Chairman Elliott, Vice Chairman Begeman, and Member Miller: I write to express my concerns regarding the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to determine a definition of “on-time performance” for purposes of Section 213 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (PRIIA) (P.L. 110-432), and the Proposed Policy Statement on Preference for Amtrak trains, dated December 28, 2015 (EP-726 and EP-728). In both these instances, the Surface Transportation Board (STB or Board) has taken it upon itself to ignore current law and determine, inaccurately, Congressional intent. With respect to the NPRM, Section 213 of PRIIA states: “If the on-time performance of any intercity passenger train averages less than 80 percent for any two consecutive calendar quarters, the STB may initiate an investigation on its own, or upon the filing of a complaint by Amtrak, an intercity passenger rail operator, a host freight railroad over which Amtrak operates, or an entity for which Amtrak operates intercity passenger rail service, the Board shall initiate such an investigation to determine whether and to what extent delays or failures to achieve minimum standards are due to causes that could reasonably be addressed by a host rail carrier or Amtrak or other intercity passenger rail operators.” Although Congress clearly defined “on-time performance” as less than 80 percent for any two consecutive calendar years, the STB re-writes current law and proposes to re-define when a train is “on time” based on when it “arrives at its final destination within five minutes of its scheduled arrival time per 100 miles of operation (capped at 30 minutes).” The STB claims this was derived from a previous definition of on-time performance used by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) in 1973, ignoring the fact that the ICC changed the definition in 1976 after a series of public hearings to: “Where safe operation permits, the train shall arrive at its final terminus and at all intermediate stops no later than 5 minutes after scheduled arrival time per 100 miles of operation, or 30 minutes after scheduled arrival time, whichever is less.” The STB further ignores the fact that section 24101(c)(4) of title 49, United States Code, states that “Amtrak shall operate Amtrak trains, to the maximum extent feasible, to all station stops within 15 minutes of the time established in public timetables.” Measuring performance only at the endpoints of Amtrak routes makes no sense and would make the law essentially meaningless. The fact is looking at endpoints takes into account performance at only 10% of all Amtrak stations; leaves performance within 24 states unmeasured altogether since those states have intermediate stations but no endpoint stations; and leaves unaddressed the many routes where performance appears to be above 80% when measured only at the last station on the route, but is significantly and chronically less than 80% at stations all along the route. In the Pacific Northwest the preponderance of stations served along the Cascades corridor are intermediate points and even the region’s two largest cities, Portland and Seattle, are intermediate points for certain schedules. In fact, on the Cascades alone, 359,135 of the 742,337, or close to 50% of all passengers, get off at intermediate stations. Those intermediate routes would not be considered under your proposed definition of on-time performance. With respect to the Policy Statement on Preference, the STB should withdraw it altogether. Current law clearly states that Amtrak passenger trains are to be given preference over freight trains. This was done in return for relieving freight railroads of money-losing passenger service in the 1970s when Amtrak was created. Unfortunately, in the Policy Statement, the STB seemingly re-writes current law, claiming that “Congress expressed its view that “preference for…passenger transportation…[should not] materially lessen the quality of freight transportation provided to shippers.” The law does not state that at all. In fact, it provides only two exceptions to preference: in emergencies and when a freight rail carrier seeks relief and the STB provides it. To date, not one freight rail carrier has petitioned the Board for relief. Section 24308(c) of title 49, United States Code, states: “Except in an emergency, intercity and commuter rail passenger transportation provided by or for Amtrak has preference over freight transportation in using a rail line, junction, or crossing unless the Board orders otherwise under this subsection. A rail carrier affected by this subsection may apply to the Board for relief. If the board, after an opportunity for a hearing, decides that preference for intercity and commuter rail passenger transportation materially will lessen the quality of freight transportation provided to shippers, the Board shall establish the rights of the carrier and Amtrak on reasonable terms.” I believe the law is clear: Congress’s intent was that Amtrak trains be given preference over freight rail transportation. I strongly urge you to reconsider your proposals in the NPRM and the Policy Statement. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO Ranking Member --30--
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio released the following statement on the Bureau of Land Management’s recently-released Resource Management Plan for Western Oregon: “I believe the Resource Management Plan for Western Oregon released today moves us further from a balanced sustainable plan based in modern forest science. With this plan, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) makes minimal use of Norm Johnson and Jerry Franklin’s ecologically-based forest management strategy on a tiny fraction of the O&C land base. I believe it is likely to reduce the already minimal supply of sustainable harvest, jeopardizing more jobs, rural communities and small, efficient mills. “The House has twice passed legislation seeking the delicate balance that would save remaining old growth while utilizing ecological forestry for a dispersed sustainable harvest on the O&C land base. It is time for the Senate break the legislative logjam and put forward a compromise that can be enacted into law." BACKGROUND: Rep. DeFazio has worked for decades to develop balanced forest policy that protects treasured old growth trees and meets the economic needs of Southern Oregon communities. In 2010, he brought Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to Oregon to work with local stakeholders to find a balanced solution. This work culminated with legislation DeFazio introduced in 2013 that would help maintain both a sustainable timber yield and fiscal stability for rural Oregonians for years to come while permanently protecting old growth forests. The bill passed the House with bipartisan support, but died in the Senate. In the 114th Congress, DeFazio was successful in adding provisions to a forest management bill that would end fire borrowing and improve forest health. That bill passed the House and is pending in the Senate.
04.01.2016	EUGENE--Rep. Peter DeFazio today applauded the decision by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to limit the duration of camping at Bastendorff Beach to one night. "I'm pleased that the BLM worked with local stakeholders to find a remedy to this problem," said Rep. DeFazio. "Bastendorff Beach is a beautiful public area that should be safe and welcoming for everyone." In recent months, dozens of campers at Bastendorff Beach have disobeyed existing camping rules and camped in the area for months at a time, leading to significant public safety concerns to visitors, businesses and nearby residents, as well as damaging the beach and vegetation. The BLM's decision to implement an interim final rule will allow local BLM officials to start enforcing the 24-hour camping limit immediately. Additionally, BLM has provided funds to Coos County to establish physical barriers to discourage improper use of the area. BLM has committed to seeking additional public comments to determine whether or not the one-night camping restriction will solve the problem or if a prohibition on camping should be considered. Rep. DeFazio visited Bastendorff Beach with Coos County officials and community members on March 11 and urged BLM to take action.
03.11.2016	EUGENE—Rep. Peter DeFazio today in Florence helped to kick off the innovative Tsunami Blue Line project that will highlight a clear tsunami evacuation route for Oregonians in high-risk inundation zones. Based off a similar project in Wellington, New Zealand, the project marks the tsunami evacuation route with a painted blue line and additional signage along the roadway. Florence, Coos Bay, Reedsport and Gold Beach will all be participating in the pilot project, which is coordinated by the Oregon Office of Emergency Management and the Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries. Improving evacuation signage will save lives in the event of a tsunami by helping people in the inundation zone get to higher, safer ground faster. Depending where you are on the Oregon coast when a tsunami hits, it could take from five to 30 minutes to get to high ground. Oregon is at particular risk of an earthquake on the Cascadia Subduction Zone and a resulting tsunami estimated to cause millions in damages and thousands of casualties. Earthquakes on similar subduction zones include the 2004 magnitude 9.1 Indonesia quake that caused 228,000 fatalities and the 2010 magnitude 8.8 Chile quake that caused 500 fatalities. Oregon’s Blue Line Project kicked off on the 5th anniversary of the magnitude 9.0 Tohoku subduction earthquake off the coast of Japan that caused a tsunami resulting in 18,000 fatalities and a partial meltdown of the Fukushima nuclear power plant. “It is a not a question of if an earthquake will happen. It is a question of when. The Blue Line Project will provide a critical pathway to help those in inundation zones reach higher ground in the quickest way possible. This project will help save lives and reduce injuries when a tsunami hits the Oregon coast,” said Rep. DeFazio. Rep. DeFazio has worked to increase funding for earthquake and tsunami preparedness efforts throughout his time in Congress. Last week, the House passed a provision, offered by DeFazio, to create a Federal Interagency Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate Oregon’s coastline. In July 2015, he announced a $4 million grant to four universities on the West Coast, including the University of Oregon, to help support production of an onshore earthquake early warning system to alert people to an oncoming tsunami and help them get to safety faster. # # # For more information on Rep. DeFazio's efforts on earthquake and tsunami preparedness, click here.
03.10.2016	WASHINGTON—Today Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Tom Marino (R-PA) led a bipartisan group of lawmakers in sending a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) urging clarification of privacy and security standards for connected health technologies. Advances in smartphone technology over the past decade have led to an increased number of apps and connected health technologies that give healthcare professionals better insight into their patients’ health and can contribute to improved patient outcomes. But regulations are not keeping pace with new technology. The lack of clarification from HHS on privacy and security standards for connected health technologies has made many medical professionals wary of using health apps, software and connected devices as helpful tools to treat their patients. The lawmakers are asking HHS to issue new guidelines and clarify how privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) apply to connected health technologies. The Department’s delay prevents thousands of patients from benefitting from useful technologies. The lawmakers first contacted HHS in 2014, requesting updated guidance to HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules for connected health technologies. HHS has yet to provide a comprehensive plan for how to best implement new standards. “We have serious concerns about the consequences of HHS inaction,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter. “Advances in mobile health technology have the potential to dramatically improve patient outcomes and the accessibility of health care. This innovation is coming at a rapid pace, but your agency has done little to demonstrate it can manage the significance.” In addition to urging action on new guidelines for health technologies, the letter requests a Member-level briefing with HHS to review their progress. “Rapidly-growing technology companies are being stifled by slow-moving bureaucracy,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “Despite the fact that HHS made a commitment to Congress that they would take necessary steps to adapt to and accommodate the needs of the modern tech community, I’m disappointed by how little progress has been made in the past sixteen months. HHS needs to follow through on their commitment to collaborate with stakeholders and the tech industry.” “Today’s letter will hopefully send a signal to HHS that they need to bring their approach to healthcare in line with the technological advances of the 21st Century, “Rep. Tom Marino added. “The plodding pace with which they’ve updated HIPAA guidance as it relates to mobile technology is unacceptable. I am hoping that our letter restarts the progress that began in a promising way with their response to our first letter in 2014. More attention to these technologies, and an open dialogue with Congress, presents the potential for improving the doctor-patient relationship, and innumerable beneficial health outcomes.” To read a PDF version of the letter, click here. # # #
02.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded the passage of H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. The bipartisan legislation, approved in the House of Representatives today by a unanimous vote, reauthorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and includes critical provisions that will help communities and local governments prepare for catastrophic earthquakes, and wildfires. EARTHQUAKE PREPAREDNESS “It is a not a question of if an earthquake will happen. It is a question of when. This legislation will help communities in Oregon and across the country to plan for, mitigate against, respond to, and recover from catastrophic earthquakes, tsunamis, and wildfires. Today, the House passed my provision to create a Federal Interagency Task Force that will develop a strategy to better protect and prepare for major earthquakes and tsunamis on the Cascadia Subduction Zone that could devastate our coastlines. Ultimately, we need a robust early warning system in order to save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. The creation of this Task Force is a significant step in the right direction,” said DeFazio. In September, DeFazio hosted a roundtable policy discussion in Oregon that brought together state and federal officials and scientists to discuss earthquake resilience programs and efforts, the ShakeAlert earthquake early warning system and the next steps for developing an offshore earthquake early warning system. The idea to establish a federal earthquake and tsunami task force was developed after that roundtable discussion. H.R. 1471 also includes a provision sponsored by Ranking Member DeFazio to encourage states to use their hazard mitigation funding in support of an earthquake early warning system. WILDFIRE PREVENTION H.R. 1471 also includes important wildfire provisions, including expanding eligibility for hazard mitigation assistance to wildfires on state and private lands as well as clarifying eligible hazard mitigation activities related to wildfires. “States should have the flexibility to use disaster mitigation funds from the Federal government to try and prevent the catastrophic wildfires that have devastated Western communities. This legislation will allow states to do just that. However, I am disappointed that the legislation does not include critical language to stop the destructive cycle of fire borrowing. Catastrophic wildfires should be treated like the natural disasters they are, and I urge my colleagues to bring up the bipartisan wildfire funding fix this year,” said DeFazio. PROTECTING COMMUNITIES IN FLOODPLAINS H.R. 1471 also includes a provision that will prohibit FEMA from expanding its authority related to floodplain management unless explicitly authorized. This provision will help clarify that FEMA cannot regulate land use, or prescribe a community’s regulations of its own land use in flood-prone areas. In 2013, the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS) provided a draft biological opinion that would force FEMA to severely restrict — and in some cases prohibit — future development in a flood plain due to threatened or endangered species. A biological opinion is an assessment of how an action taken by a federal agency will affect endangered species. Unfortunately, rather than develop a common sense plan using community input, NMFS did the opposite and came up with a plan that completely ignores the concerns of local and state officials and agency experts. “For over a year and a half, I have worked with local officials and directly engaged with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to stop a bureaucratic overreach by NMFS that could supersede Oregon’s land-use laws and prohibit development on tens of thousands of acres across the state. I was able to secure language in this legislation that will help protect communities located in areas at risk of flooding without forcing them to jump through time-consuming and expensive bureaucratic hoops to develop land. We can protect our endangered species without dictating unworkable solutions for communities in flood prone areas,” said DeFazio. To watch Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech on H.R. 1471, click here.
02.22.2016	WASHINGTON—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today sent a letter to Oregon State Senate Democrats blasting pending legislation before the body that would ratify the flawed decision by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Commission to remove the gray wolf from Oregon’s endangered species list and block judicial review of their decision. There are estimated only to be just over one hundred gray wolves in Oregon, yet the Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife Commission recently removed the wolf from the state Endangered Species Act (ESA.) The decision has been challenged in court for violating the Endangered Species Act. The Oregon State legislature is expected to vote to ratify the Commission’s decision later this week, which would make the decision permanent and shield it from court review. If the bill were to pass, it would undermine efforts at the federal level to protect gray wolves. Rep. DeFazio writes in the letter, “Decisions on whether to remove a species from the state ESA should not be taken lightly or used as a political bargaining chip. At the very least you should be sure that the Department’s recommendation to delist the wolf is legally and scientifically sound.” The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. February 22, 2016 Oregon Senate Democrats 900 Court Street N.E. Salem, Oregon 97301 Dear Democratic Members of the Senate: I understand the House has passed and the Senate is now considering legislation, HB 4040, that would codify in law the recent decision by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission (Commission) to remove the gray wolf from the State Endangered Species Act (ESA). I am deeply opposed to this legislation and am concerned that the Oregon legislature would consider such a flawed bill. I am currently fighting to maintain protections for the gray wolf at the federal level in response to increased political attacks and pressure to remove the wolf from the federal ESA. The actions that Oregon has taken, particularly the consideration of HB 4040, directly undermine my efforts at the federal level. In addition to having concerns with legislation that would ratify the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife’s (Department) flawed recommendation to remove the gray wolf from the State ESA, HB 4040 also preempts judicial review of the decision, an extreme precedent-setting measure that should not be taken lightly. I believe the true purpose of HB 4040 is to block the current court case pending against the state. The Department’s recommendation to delist the gray wolf was premature and not subject to an independent peer-review process as required by state law. Through my extensive experience with federal wolf delisting efforts, I know it is critically important that wildlife management, especially management of an iconic predator species like the gray wolf, is based upon sound scientific findings and analysis. The Department’s decision not to open their findings to a rigorous scientific review is both alarming and telling, especially since the pending federal proposal to delist the gray wolf has been mired in a near identical controversy over the science used to justify the delisting in addition to concerns over the improper influence by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on the composition of the independent peer-review panel. In order to maintain the integrity of the ESA, it is critical that management decisions be driven by science, not politics. Judicial review is an essential component of this process. The concerns regarding whether or not the Department did a proper analysis and used the best available science should be subject to judicial review. To do otherwise flies in the face of all the progress the state has made thus far in wolf recovery efforts. It is simply, not how we do things in Oregon. The extensive stakeholder outreach and collaborative approach used by the state to develop Oregon’s Wolf Management Plan, which is currently up for review this year, have made Oregon the model for wolf conservation in the nation. HB 4040 will signal a sharp departure from these efforts and send a message that Oregon is following in the footsteps of other Western states such as Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana that have been overtly hostile to wolves. Decisions on whether to remove a species from the State ESA should not be taken lightly or used as a political bargaining chip. At the very least you should be sure that the Department’s recommendation to delist the wolf is legally and scientifically sound. Therefore, I urge you to reject this legislation. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Cc: Governor Kate Brown # # #
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA), co-Chairmen of the House Small Brewer’s Caucus, led a letter with Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN) urging the Department of Justice to undertake a comprehensive review of the massive global merger of beer manufacturers Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) and SABMiller. In a letter sent to the Department of Justice Thursday, the lawmakers outlined their concerns about the merger’s potentially damaging effects on small and independent brewers. The merger would be the largest global acquisition by a beer manufacturer to date, and one of the largest acquisitions of a consumer goods company ever. The House Small Brewers Caucus primary concern is ABI’s increased leverage on all aspects of the U.S. beer industry, particularly distribution. If the merger proceeds, the combined new company would represent 58 percent of global beer profits. The deal would make ABI the major supplier to independent distributors. If ABI were to pressure independent distributors to abandon the distribution of non-ABI brands—including a significant number of craft brands—those brewers will have only one viable distribution option in those markets, further limiting many U.S. markets that are currently only served by two major beer distributors. Small brewers also fear that the ABI acquisition of SABMiller would affect the pricing and availability of supplies needed to make their product, such as hops and barley. “Small brewers, including Oregon’s 200-plus breweries, don’t simply provide beer; they provide consumers across the country greater variety and consumer choices against a market dominated by big beer companies like Miller or Busch,” said Rep. DeFazio. “The proposed merger between ABI and SABMiller will impact that consumer choice and steamroll small brewers in the process, affecting supply, pricing, and manufacturing. I urge the Department of Justice to carefully review this proposed merger and fully evaluate the potentially disastrous effects of the partnerships of these two beer behemoths.” “Craft brewing is a growing industry that is creating tens of thousands of jobs in communities across Minnesota and the rest of the country,” said Rep. Paulsen. “The proposed merger should be fully reviewed to ensure that an unfair advantage cannot be leveraged over our nation’s small brewers. If craft brewers are disadvantaged, it’s ultimately the consumer that will suffer from higher prices and less choice.” “Pennsylvania was the birthplace of American beer,” said Rep. Kelly. “More than two centuries later, the small craft brewing industry has witnessed a renaissance in the Commonwealth. From the North Country Brewing Company to the Reclamation Brewing Company in my hometown of Butler, these small businesses employ thousands of Pennsylvania workers and produce great food and beverages, while generating millions in revenue for the state. To ensure that the American beer market remains competitive and the craft beer industry continues to flourish, it is important to ensure that all brewers—big and small—have the same access to commodities so that all Pennsylvanians continue to benefit.” Craft brewing represents more than 11 percent of the American beer market and directly supports 115,000 jobs across the country. With a total economic impact estimated at $55.7 billion, craft brewers hold a significant position in our nation’s beer industry. The House Small Brewer’s Caucus, founded in 2007 by Rep. DeFazio, is a bipartisan group of 200 members from 43 states. A copy of the letter is below. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. The Honorable William Baer Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530-0001 Dear Mr. Baer: As members of the House Small Brewers Caucus – a bipartisan group dedicated to issues affecting America’s small brewers – we write to urge the Department of Justice to undertake a comprehensive review of the global merger of Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) and SABMiller, the two largest beer manufacturers in the world, as well as any related divestiture of SABMiller’s ownership interest in the MillerCoors joint venture. Along with a number of constituents, consumer advocates, craft breweries, independent beer distributors (wholesalers), retailers and industry groups, we are concerned about ABI’s increased leverage on all aspects of the United States beer industry. This deal is the largest global acquisition to date in the beer industry, and one of the largest acquisitions of a consumer goods company ever. As such, we believe that it is appropriate for the Department’s review to be even more comprehensive than its review of ABI’s acquisition of Grupo Modelo in 2012 and 2013. If ABI’s acquisition of SABMiller proceeds, the combined new company would represent 58 percent of global beer profits, casting a long shadow in the U.S. marketplace where ABI, already the largest brewer, would increase its dominance. ABI is currently the primary brewer for the largest network of U.S. multi-brand independent beer distributors and has unique access to larger retail accounts and other advantages stemming from the scope and scale of its operations. While brewers are generally required by state law to utilize licensed beer distributors to store and deliver their products to retailers, ABI also exercises vertical control through ownership of multi-brand beer distributors in some states. The distributors owned by ABI also sell beer brands that directly compete with ABI. In fact, recent takeovers make ABI one of the fastest growing beer distributors in the United States, having acquired 12 independent distributors in nine states since 2012. ABI’s effective control as the major supplier to independent distributors, combined with its direct ownership of distributors and recent acquisitions of craft brewers, allows for greater opportunity to suppress the sale of the various brands of other brewers. Should ABI acquire additional independent distributorships in targeted markets or place further pressure on independent distributors to abandon the distribution of non-ABI brands, including a significant number of craft brands, those brewers will have only one viable distribution option in those markets. This is an outcome that will further limit access to many U.S. markets that are currently only served by two major beer distributors. As such, the Department must prevent negative effects of the proposed transaction on America’s craft brewers and consumers, who may be left with fewer choices and experience higher prices. Small brewers also are concerned that the ABI acquisition of SABMiller creates the potential to constrain access to commodities that brewers rely on to make their products. These materials include hops, barley, cans, and bottles. The proposed acquisition would lead to a uniquely powerful global player in these markets with the capability of subtly affecting prices and supplies of essential commodities for other brewers. In the end, price increases and supply disruptions could have an adverse effect on both competition and beer consumers. Craft beer is an American success story, representing over 11 percent of the American beer market and growing at double digit rates each year as consumers savor variety. This consumer demand has fueled a record number of craft breweries – about 4,000 – creating 115,000 jobs across all 50 states and a total economic impact estimated at $55.7 billion. These American businesses have been able to start, grow and reach new markets through an independent and competitive distribution system. The prospective enhanced dominance of the global market by ABI should not increase its ability to control the pathway to an effective distribution system, nor should it suppress the growth of American craft beer. The House Small Brewers Caucus is greatly interested in the effects of the ABI acquisition on our constituents – craft brewers, beer distributors and consumers. We ask that you undertake a thorough review of this transaction and seek appropriate remedial steps to preserve competition and protect consumers. Sincerely,
02.12.2016	Reps. Blumenauer, DeFazio, Other Members Call on EPA to Reevaluate Risks of Powerful Herbicide Before Reapproved Washington, DC – This week, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Peter DeFazio (OR-04) led 33 additional members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy expressing concerns regarding the potential negative health and environmental impacts of the herbicide Enlist Duo, and to request more information about EPA’s plan to reevaluate these risks before reapproving it for use. Enlist Duo is an herbicide manufactured by Dow Chemical Co. that combines two powerful herbicides – 2,4-D and glyphosate – with proven health and environmental risks. A recent Chicago Tribune article details the registration of Enlist Duo by the EPA in October 2014 and raises significant questions about the agency’s approval process of Enlist Duo. In November 2015, the EPA asked the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to overturn its approval so that scientists could review new data regarding the impacts of the herbicides on endangered plant species. The court recently denied the request by EPA, leaving the registration decision to EPA for further consideration. “This is part of a vicious cycle that is leading to more potent, dangerous chemicals being widely used on crops across the United States,” said Representative Blumenauer. “With the rise of herbicide-resistant genetically modified crops, herbicides are more widely sprayed causing weeds to grow more resistant – ultimately, requiring the application of even stronger herbicides. EPA must take action to make sure products entering the market to be used on our food are safe for human health and the environment.” “The relentless pursuit of herbicide-resistant crops by corporate agriculture has created a toxic treadmill in our food system,” said Representative DeFazio. “It’s hard to believe that we are now debating whether or not a probable carcinogen such as glyphosate is safe to use on the food that we feed our children. The EPA needs to stand up against the pressures from the pesticide and agriculture industry and thoroughly assess the environmental and health impacts of this toxic chemical and reject it if the science shows there will be harm.” “The questions Congress is asking EPA about Enlist Duo are the right ones,” said Mary Ellen Kustin, a senior policy analyst at the Environmental Working Group. “The EPA has not yet assessed this chemical cocktail in its entirety. Before combining the probable human carcinogen glyphosate with 2,4-D – a defoliant linked to non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and other serious health problems – and drastically increasing the amount of these weed killers sprayed on American farmland, we need to know the risks this chemical cocktail has on nearby communities, especially children.” “EPA took a step in the wrong direction by approving and expanding the use of Enlist Duo, a powerful combination of toxic pesticides that threaten wildlife, farmers, and human health. NRDC thanks Congressman Blumenauer, Congressman DeFazio, and all of the members who joined in investigating how the EPA’s greenlighting of Enlist Duo fits into its mission to protect public health and the environment,” said Sylvia Fallon, Senior Scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council. Included below is the full text of the letter, and an electronic version of the letter with signatures can be found here. February 11, 2016 Administrator Gina McCarthy Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20004 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write to express our concerns regarding the findings in a recent Chicago Tribune report on the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) review process for the herbicide Enlist Duo, and to request more information about EPA's plan to reevaluate Enlist Duo's health and environmental risks. Enlist Duo is a new herbicide currently approved for use on herbicide-resistant corn and soybean crops. Dow AgroSciences created Enlist Duo, a mixture of the weed killers glyphosate and 2,4-D, to combat so-called "superweeds" that have grown resistant to glyphosate alone. As reported in the Chicago Tribune article, EPA registered Enlist Duo in October 2014 after reversing its previous analysis of certain health harms associated with exposure to 2,4-D. We were concerned to learn that, during this process, EPA dismissed a key study linking 2,4-D to kidney abnormalities based on one scientist's analysis, and in doing so, effectively gave the green light for 41 times more of the chemical to enter the American diet than was previously allowed. Given the widely-known adverse impacts of 2,4-D on human health and the environment, and with little understood about the implications of combining 2,4-D and glyphosate, EPA should use the utmost caution in assessing the safety of Enlist Duo before approving it for continued use. We were pleased to learn of EPA's decision in November 2015 to ask a court to vacate the agency's approval of Enlist Duo, after Dow provided the agency with information regarding the synergistic effects of glyphosate and 2,4-D in Enlist Duo on threatened and endangered plants. The court denied that request, but did remand the registration decision to EPA for reevaluation. We are troubled by reports that the EPA plans to conduct an extremely limited reanalysis of Enlist Duo's harms, questioning only whether a larger no-spray zone is needed to protect endangered plants that grow close to farm fields. Moreover, these actions do not address questions about serious potential health risks brought to light by the Chicago Tribune. At a minimum, while it considers the question of synergistic effects on remand, the EPA should evaluate at least two other major factors about Enlist Duo's environmental and health impacts. First, the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer recently published a groundbreaking finding that glyphosate is "probably carcinogenic to humans. " EPA registered Enlist Duo without considering this cancer finding, and without looking at any studies on glyphosate's cancer risk that have been published in the last twenty years. Second, studies indicate that Enlist Duo threatens the monarch butterfly, an iconic species famed for its annual migration across the continent. The monarch migration has declined sharply in recent years, driven by increasing applications of herbicides to herbicide-resistant crops, which has decimated milkweed, the sole food source for monarch caterpillars. Scientists have warned that the monarch migration is now at risk of vanishing entirely. Enlist Duo is specifically intended to kill milkweed, but so far EPA has refused to consider harm to monarch butterflies when determining whether Enlist Duo causes unreasonable environmental impacts. Enlist Duo's effects on the monarch butterfly must be part of EPA's reanalysis. The public deserves to know how EPA intends to address all of these concerns about the risks posed by Enlist Duo. We ask that EPA respond promptly to the following questions: What factors caused EPA to reverse its previous analysis of the health impacts of Enlist Duo and dismiss evidence linking 2,4-D to kidney abnormalities? How, if at all, did EPA assess the synergistic effects of glyphosate and 2,4-D, as opposed to merely each chemical individually? Does EPA have a standard practice or policy guidance for assessing the synergistic effects of chemical mixtures? If so, what is that practice, does it occur during the registration process, and did EPA follow it here? Considering the World Health Organization's finding that glyphosate is a probable carcinogen, will EPA also assess the synergistic effects of the chemicals in Enlist Duo on human health - especially children's health - in addition to their effects on endangered and other plants Will EPA prohibit sales of Enlist Duo while it reviews all information submitted by Dow regarding synergistic effects? What is EPA's plan to evaluate Enlist Duo's harm to monarch butterflies before re-approval? Will EPA agree not to approve continued use of Enlist Duo until the agency considers and addresses the herbicide's adverse effects on monarchs? What is EPA's plan to evaluate Enlist Duo's human cancer risk before re-approval? Will EPA agree not to approve continued use of Enlist Duo until the agency considers and addresses up-to-date science on glyphosate's cancer risk? Will EPA agree not to re-approve Enlist Duo until the agency has completed its registration review process for glyphosate? What is EPA's timeline for the review process of Enlist Duo? Thank you for your prompt attention to these questions. We look forward to receiving your response as soon as possible. ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Oregon’s Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Representatives Greg Walden and Peter DeFazio today introduced the bipartisan Treating Small Airports with Fairness Act, or ‘TSA Fairness Act,’ which would restore commercial air service to the Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport by bringing back federal TSA screening at the airport. “The Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport is a critical transportation link for the region, and it’s unacceptable for bureaucrats 3,000 miles away in D.C. to stand in the way of restoring commercial service,” said Merkley. “It’s time for the TSA to restore screening services in Klamath Falls and ensure that local residents, businesses and Kingsley Field have the air travel options that are so essential in today’s interconnected economy.” “Oregonians who live in and around Klamath Falls should be able to count on TSA to work for them just as it does for larger cities,” Wyden said. “Our state’s rural economy depends heavily on the viability of its local airports and our bipartisan bill would require TSA to be a better partner in helping ensure essential connections for rural communities.” “Since TSA won’t restore screening to Klamath Falls on its own, Congress needs to pass a new law forcing them to do so. The people of Klamath County deserve safe, reliable air service,” said Walden. “Returning commercial air service would give greater flexibility to residents, tourists, and business travelers, and it would help grow jobs in rural communities in Klamath County and across the region. I’m proud that this bill will help accomplish that, and I look forward to moving it through the U.S. House.” “Travel is difficult enough for rural Oregonians without the added burden of worrying about safety,” said DeFazio. “Travelers from Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport deserve the same security and peace of mind that other travelers across the country are granted. It’s imperative that TSA resume operations at this airport and restore screening services to the people who depend on this airport for their travel needs.” The Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport has been working to restore commercial service since carrier SkyWest left the airport in June 2014. Last fall, the city of Klamath Falls received a commitment from Alaska-based carrier PenAir to bring back commercial service with daily flights to Portland. However, the TSA stopped providing screening services at the airport after SkyWest’s departure. Despite repeated calls from the local community and from Oregon’s congressional delegation for the TSA to resume service so that PenAir can begin commercial flights, the federal agency has thus far refused. The TSA Fairness Act would require the TSA to restore screening services to any airport that lost service after January 1, 2013 and that has a guarantee from a commercial airline to resume service within one year. The Crater Lake-Klamath airport is a key infrastructure link for Crater Lake National Park, which is one of Oregon’s premier tourist destinations; the U.S. Military, which trains all F-15 pilots at the Kingsley Field Air National Guard Base adjacent to the Crater Lake-Klamath airport; and for the entire Southern Oregon community. Without commercial service from Klamath Falls, many Southern Oregon residents are forced to drive several hours each way to access commercial flights from Medford or Bend. The legislation was introduced in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives today. In addition to Merkley, Wyden, Walden and DeFazio, the bill is cosponsored by Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Mike Enzi (R-WY), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Reps. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA). ###
02.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) announced that the Army Corps of Engineers will allocate an additional $9 million this year towards operations and maintenance dredging projects at Oregon’s small ports. Over $5 million of those funds will go towards the needs of small ports along Oregon’s South Coast. “Oregon’s ports and harbors are the lifeblood of the communities they serve. Thousands of Oregon jobs are directly or indirectly tied to cargo, recreation, industrial, commercial or other activity at Oregon’s ports,” said Rep. DeFazio. “These critical investments in dredging will help ensure Oregon’s small ports stay open for business and boost local economies. I applaud the Army Corps for including this essential funding in their Work Plan.” In January, Rep. DeFazio spearheaded a letter sent to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy requesting that the Administration use additional funds appropriated by Congress in the FY16 Omnibus Appropriations bill for maintenance and operations projects at nine of Oregon’s small ports. Many of these ports received zero funding in the President’s FY16 Budget, but had significant dredging needs. The funding increase announced today was included in the Army Corps of Engineers Work Plan for FY2016. The Work Plan designated more than $9 million for nine Oregon Ports, including the Ports of Siuslaw, Umpqua, Bandon, Gold Beach, Brookings Harbor, and Port Orford. The Corps operations and maintenance projects, which include dredging, are critical to local economies and the fishing industry. These ports also support the activities of federal agencies, such as the U.S. Coast Guard. Ports require routine dredging to ensure they are safe and operational, but have been severely underfunded for several years. Rep. DeFazio’s letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works is below: February 9, 2016 The Honorable Jo Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Secretary Darcy: I request that, as you develop the fiscal year 2016 work plan for the Army Civil Works program, you include critical operation and maintenance funding for nine small port projects in the State of Oregon: the Siuslaw River project (Port of Siuslaw), the Umpqua River project (Port of Umpqua), the Coquille River project (Port of Bandon), the Rogue River project (Port of Gold Beach), the Chetco River project (Port of Brookings Harbor), Tillamook Bay and Harbor project (Port of Garibaldi), the Port Orford project, the Yaquina River project (Port of Toledo), and the Depoe Bay project. On December 18, 2015, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Pub. L. 114-113) into law. This bill included approximately $149 million for the Corps to carry out operation and maintenance dredging of small commercial harbors, nationwide. Division D of the Explanatory Statement to accompany this bill identified $48 million in additional, but unallocated, funding reserved for work at small, remote, or subsistence navigation projects. I request that you allocate a portion of this $48 million for these nine Oregon ports. As you know, funding for the Ports of Siuslaw, Umpqua, Bandon, Gold Beach, Brookings Harbor, and Depoe Bay was included in the fiscal year 2015 workplan; however, despite a continuing need for maintenance work at these facilities, no funding was included in the fiscal year 2016 President’s Budget for these projects. The Ports of Garibaldi, Port Orford, and Toledo received no funding in the fiscal year 2015 workplan, but significant needs for dredging and jetty repair have been identified for fiscal year 2016. Based on conversations with the Portland District, the Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, and local ports, I have been informed of additional Corps’ capability for these projects in fiscal year 2016, in the following amounts: Project Name Additional FY 2016 Capability Siuslaw River (Port of Siuslaw) $921,000 Umpqua River (Port of Umpqua) $942,000 Coquille River (Port of Bandon) $838,000 Rogue River (Port of Gold Beach) $1,054,000 Chetco River (Port of Brookings Harbor) $806,000 Tillamook Bay and Harbor (Port of Garibaldi) $1,492,000 Port of Port Orford $2,130,000 Yaquina River (Port of Toledo) $3,757,000 Depoe Bay $252,000 Small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs. Commercial fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon coastal communities and to our state, region and nation. That’s why it is so important that funding to dredge these ports is included in the 2016 work plan. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ PETER DeFAZIO RON WYDEN Member of Congress United States Senator _____________________________ _____________________________ JEFF MERKLEY KURT SCHRADER United States Senator Member of Congress --30--
02.02.2016	Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio spoke at the White House Earthquake Resilience Summit on the need for earthquake early warning systems and earthquake-resilient technologies. Organized by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and the National Security Council, the summit featured local government officials and experts from the academic and business communities, including the University of Oregon and Oregon State University. At the summit, DeFazio highlighted a recent Congressional delegation trip to Japan, where he got a first-hand look at Japan’s earthquake-resilient infrastructure and the extensive early earthquake warning system (EEW) in place. “The question is not if, but when the next major earthquake will hit the Pacific Northwest,” said DeFazio. “Preparation will save lives, reduce injuries, and minimize infrastructure damage. Not only does Japan have the most advanced EEW system in the world, but it has also invested heavily in earthquake preparedness and earthquake-resilient infrastructure, including a response and recovery headquarters in case of a major quake. We need to offer Oregonians the same basic protections.” DeFazio has long stressed the importance of earthquake preparedness and an earthquake early warning system that would send alerts before a potentially catastrophic earthquake. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, close bridges, and call for any necessary evacuations. A warning of seconds or minutes can have significant impact by alerting citizens of the need to take appropriate action when an earthquake occurs. Oregon is at increased risk for a catastrophic earthquake due to its location in the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. The last earthquake caused by the Cascadia Subduction zone was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was at least an 8.7 magnitude quake. A catastrophic earthquake would have devastating effects in Oregon, with thousands of and deaths and injuries, as well as an estimated $32 billion in infrastructure and economic damages, predicted. In July, DeFazio secured a U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) grant that dedicated $4 million to help support an early earthquake warning system operated by four universities, including the University of Oregon. # # #
02.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed H.R. 4188, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015, which included language that will keep the Newport air facility open for at least two years. The House was required to again pass the legislation after the Senate adopted the bill with amendments in December. The legislation now heads to the President’s desk, where it is expected to be signed into law. “After some back and forth between the House and the Senate, I am happy to say Congress finally passed the Coast Guard Authorization Act, which includes language to keep the critical Newport Air Station open and serving the Oregon Coast for at least another two years and likely much longer. If, after two years, the Coast Guard wants to close the station it will have to jump through significant additional hoops, essentially ensuring that the Coast Guard’s Newport Air Facility remains open for a long time to come. Maintaining a strong Coast Guard presence all along the Oregon coast is critical to the safety and security of our coastal communities,” said Ranking Member DeFazio. The legislation also provides two years of funding for the United States Coast Guard. DeFazio was a key negotiator and co-sponsor of the bipartisan legislation. “For more than 100 years, the Coast Guard has kept our ports and waterways secure, protected our shores and communities, and responded to disasters and emergencies affecting our mariners, fishermen, and the general public,” said DeFazio. “This two year reauthorization will provide the Coast Guard with the resources and assets necessary to carry out its missions. It will build up our fleet of essential offshore cutters, and it will finally authorize the design of another critical heavy icebreaker necessary to provide safe passage in the Arctic. I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for working diligently to pass this bipartisan legislation.” COAST GUARD BACKGROUND Due to budget cuts, the Coast Guard threatened in 2014 to close the Newport air facility-- which handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast. The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015 authorizes Coast Guard and Federal Maritime Commission funding levels for two years, and includes provisions to improve Coast Guard mission effectiveness, help modernize the Service’s aging vessels and other assets, and reform U.S. maritime transportation laws. The original House version of the bill (H.R. 1987) was introduced by Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA), along with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Ranking Member John Garamendi (D-CA). The final air facility language was agreed to during negotiations with the Senate Commerce Committee and included in an updated Coast Guard Authorization Act (H.R. 4188). Today the House passed H.R. 4188 with Senate amendments. That language included in H.R. 4188 extends the prohibition on the closure of any Coast Guard facility for two additional years until January 1, 2018. After that date, the Coast Guard may only close an air facility if: The Secretary of Homeland Security submits to Congress plans to continue to offer adequate protection to our coasts as they retire and replace outdated helicopters. The Secretary can clearly demonstrate that: remaining search and rescue capabilities will maintain the safety of the public in the area; weather and marine conditions, including water temperatures and unusual tides, do not require continued operation of the air facility; and standard search and rescue response times will continue to be met; The Secretary convenes public meetings in communities in the air facility’s service area to allow for public input on any proposed closure; and Prior to closure or a reduction in services, the Secretary must submit to Congress in the President’s budget request any proposal for closure, cessation, or reductions in operations. Once the budget request is submitted, the Coast Guard has 7 days to provide explicit written notice to Congress. Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy. The Oregon delegation successfully passed legislation in 2014 that prevented closure until January 1, 2016. The legislation passed today will extend that prohibition until at least January 1, 2018. --30--
01.29.2016	WASHINGTON­—Today, in response to the ongoing illegal occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) led eight Members of Congress in sending a letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and Attorney General Loretta Lynch. The letter urges the Directors to brief Congress on how they plan to respond to similar threats to America’s public lands and neighboring communities in the future. “As you know, the situation in Oregon did not happen in isolation,” the members wrote. “To this day, federal employees and local communities at the site of the related standoff in Nevada continue to face violent intimidation tactics, preventing critical law enforcement and restoration work from moving forward. We look forward to discussing with you how we can ensure that Americans’ access to public land is not disrupted by armed groups in the future.” A PDF version of the letter can be found here. The full text of the letter can be read below: January 29, 2016 Hon. Sally Jewell Secretary of the Interior U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Hon. Loretta E. Lynch Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20530 Dear Secretary Jewell and Attorney General Lynch, We write today to request a briefing on the federal response to the illegal occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, and how your agencies plan to respond to the broader pattern of threats to our public lands, the communities that neighbor them, and the employees who help maintain these important public natural resources. This has been made even more urgent by the unfolding events in the last few days. For nearly a month, the armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge has represented a threat to surrounding communities, tribal sacred artifacts and resources, refuge employees, archaeological sites, and the public lands and wildlife the refuge was established to protect. Moreover, the long-running standoff has sent a dangerous message to armed vigilante groups that the threat of violence is a viable political tool. As you know, the situation in Oregon did not happen in isolation. Many militants have interpreted the lack of prosecution of Cliven Bundy for his 2014 armed standoff with the Bureau of Land Management to mean the federal government will turn a blind eye when it comes to prosecuting antigovernment extremists. To this day, federal employees and local communities in Nevada continue to face violent intimidation tactics, preventing critical law enforcement and restoration work from moving forward. Numerous rural communities in the West worry they could be next. We look forward to discussing with you how we can ensure that Americans’ access to public land is not disrupted by armed groups in the future. Thank you in advance for your timely consideration of this request. Sincerely, # # #
01.16.2016	EUGENE—After fighting to overcome years of bureaucratic delays and mismanagement, Congressman Peter DeFazio today participated in the ribbon-cutting of the brand-new VA Health Center in Eugene. Congressman DeFazio was instrumental in securing nearly $80 million in federal funding for a new, larger VA clinic. “It’s been a long time coming, but I’m so proud to be here today to help open this new facility,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Our nation’s veterans answered the call of duty to serve and protect our country. When they come home they should receive the highest standard of healthcare. They should not be faced with inadequate care, long waits, and delayed service. This new facility accommodates a much larger staff and will include a number of medical services that local veterans previously had to travel long distances to obtain. The larger staff and new specialties available will cut wait times and will help to ensure that our local veterans will be able to get the care that they deserve.” As the area’s veterans’ population has grown in recent years, the existing VA clinic in Lane County has become inadequate to meet the growing demand of their healthcare needs, leading to long wait times and delayed service for local veterans. Rep. DeFazio has long been a champion of Oregon veterans and secured approval and funding for the construction of the new larger Eugene Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in 2008. The Office of Management and Budget approved plans for the clinic in July of 2009. However, the project was stymied by delays and bureaucratic red tape. Rep. DeFazio continually pressed the VA over the course of several years, working to expedite construction and bypass delays. Rep. DeFazio also pressed VA Secretary Shinseki to reform the CBOC contracting process so that future facilities would not face the same delays. The contract for construction of the CBOC was finally awarded in 2013. The 120,000 square foot facility will provide primary care, including mental and women’s health, as well as an on-site pharmacy. In addition, the clinic includes new specialized medical services, including ambulatory surgeries, speech pathology, cardiopulmonary, podiatry, lab, pharmacy, imaging, dental, and other specialties such as gastroenterology, optometry, orthopedics, and urology. # # #
01.12.2016	Congressman Peter DeFazio today responded to President Obama’s State of the Union address. Following are Rep. DeFazio’s remarks: On Trade: “I agree with many of the sentiments that President Obama proposed, but he is still short on solutions for the many problems facing American families today. Although the Republican-led Congress prefers to oppose rather than compromise, the President can do more by supporting policies that will give working Americans a leg up. Specifically, the Trans Pacific Partnership that will ultimately hurt American families.” “Tonight, President Obama spoke about a path to the future with opportunity and security for our families. But the Trans Pacific Partnership will do just the opposite for working families across the country. If we truly want economic security and opportunities for all, we need to prioritize the needs of the American people over those of massive corporations. “In tonight’s speech President Obama again lauded the massive Trans Pacific Partnership as a deal that will cut taxes, support jobs, and advance American leadership. In reality, the TPP is a dangerous agreement that would export jobs, drive down wages, and devastate American manufacturing. “I brought as my guest tonight a mill worker from Oregon named Steve Phillips who has been laid off three times because of the catastrophic impact of failed trade policies on Oregon’s manufacturing community. In my nearly thirty years representing Oregon in Congress, I have voted against every so-called “free” trade agreement that has come before Congress. I will continue to fight against the TPP and will push for a trade policy that values skilled laborers like Steve Phillips and protects American small businesses and manufacturing.” On Daesh: “The threat of Daesh and militant terrorist groups is one that must be taken seriously. While the President described our efforts against Daesh in tonight’s speech, it is Congress’s responsibility to vote on a detailed authorization directing the President’s military action.” On Retirement Security: “President Obama called Social Security and Medicare “more important than ever,” and I agree. We must do everything that we can to preserve retirement security for current and future beneficiaries. Nearly 200,000 people in my congressional district receive Social Security benefits and many depend on those benefits as a major part of their income. Americans who have paid into Social Security throughout their lifetime deserve the full benefits that they have been promised. It’s time to make sure the government holds up their end of the bargain. “Seniors today are facing rising costs of medical care, housing, and other essentials, yet have been denied an adequate cost-of-living adjustment to help them meet their basic needs. We must provide an adequate cost-of-living adjustment to our nation’s seniors to help them keep up with the rising costs of today’s economy.” On Education: “President Obama’s remarks on education both abroad and here at home were encouraging. I agree we must make college affordable for all Americans. I have long been an ardent supporter of tuition assistance and Pell Grants for students and working families to give every American the opportunity to succeed.” On Campaign Finance Reform: “President Obama was right in saying that “Democracy breaks down when the average person feels that their voice doesn’t matter, that the system is rigged in favor of the rich or the powerful.” Since the Citizens United ruling, corporations and the ultra-wealthy have been able to pay their way into being heard, while regular Americans are shouted down. We must push for campaign finance reform that will level the playing field and make a government that better represents regular Americans, instead of only the wealthy and elite.” On Climate Change: “I agree with the President about the urgent need to address climate change. We are already feeling its consequences in Oregon, with prolonged droughts, increased wildfires, ocean acidification that is impacting our fisheries, and more. It’s past time to stop denying the existence of climate change and time to start addressing its very real impact.” # # #
01.12.2016	Congressman Peter DeFazio today welcomed to Washington as his guest at the State of the Union address Steve Phillips, an Oregon paper mill worker who has repeatedly lost his job due to the United States’ failed trade policies. “We’ve heard over and over again how free trade deals are supposed to benefit Americans, but Steve knows first-hand the catastrophic impact that decades of failed trade policies have had on the American worker,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Steve Phillips has been laid off three times at three different shuttered paper facilities in Oregon alone because of disastrous trade policies, and there are thousands of stories just like Steve’s from across the country. Yet still President Obama is trying to push through the Trans Pacific Partnership, a new, massive trade deal that will permanently cripple American manufacturing.” Steven Phillips, a member of the Association of Western Paper and Pulp Workers, has worked at two now-shuttered facilities that were Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) certified, meaning the closure was caused by the impact of foreign trade. The facility he most recently worked at indefinitely idled in November and is in the process of being TAA-certified. He has also worked as a Peer Outreach Counselor for displaced workers, helping colleagues find work after being laid off from businesses that have closed due to trade-related causes. “If people have the ability to relocate after a plant closes because of failed trade policies, they can bounce back,” said Steve Phillips. “But as more and more of these facilities close, there’s no reason to relocate – you’re just going from nowhere to nowhere. Another trade deal that builds upon the same failed policies of the past would devastate the manufacturing community even more and take away an already-dwindling number of jobs.” Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. DeFazio has fought against unjust trade policies that put our consumer safety, environmental quality, and manufacturing jobs at risk. He has repeatedly pushed back against failed policies that have endangered Americans in the name of so called “free” trade and is a vocal critic of President Obama’s proposed Trans Pacific Partnership, calling it the “last, biggest, worst trade agreement ever.” Since the implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1993, it is estimated that the United States has lost 5 million manufacturing jobs, including 11 percent of Oregon’s manufacturing jobs. # # #
12.10.2015	Today, members of Oregon’s Congressional Delegation announced they have secured a provision in the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015 that would keep the Newport air facility open for at least two years. Due to budget cuts, the Coast Guard threatened in 2014 to close the Newport air facility-- which handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast. Today’s announcement was made by Representatives Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader, along with Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley. As Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, DeFazio was the lead Democratic sponsor and negotiator in the House of Representatives on the Coast Guard Authorization Act. “It is impossible to overstate how critical having search and rescue helicopters nearby is to Oregon’s fishing industry, coastal visitors and residents. Today, we were successful in securing language in the Coast Guard Authorization Act that will keep this critical air station—which handles half the emergency calls on the Central Oregon Coast—open and serving the Coast for at least another two years. After that, the Coast Guard will have to jump through significant additional hoops before attempting to close it again, essentially ensuring that the Coast Guard’s Newport Air Facility remains open for a long time to come. I commend my colleagues in both the House and Senate who helped craft this important legislation. I look forward to this bill passing the Senate and being signed into law,” said Ranking Member DeFazio. “Newport’s Coast Guard helicopter is a proven lifesaver for a huge stretch of the Oregon Coast. Congressman DeFazio, Senator Merkley, Congressman Schrader and I fought hard to preserve this crucial part of the coastal safety net and are relieved Congress won’t risk Oregonians’ lives at the start of the dangerous winter season and beyond,” said Senator Wyden. “Losing the Newport Coast Guard helicopter would put lives at risk all along the Oregon coast. In the cold waters off our shores, people in harm’s way don’t have the luxury of waiting an hour or more for rescue. The Newport community deserves tremendous credit for their tenacity and determination in fighting for the helicopter and keeping their residents and visitors safe. It’s great news that the Newport helicopter will continue to be there as a lifesaving resource, and I’ll keep fighting to make sure that it always is,” said Senator Merkley. “Maintaining strong search and rescue capabilities is crucial to the safety of our commercial fishermen, recreational tourists, and coastal residents. Passage of this bill will extend prohibition on the closure of the Newport AIRFAC for at least an additional two years and make it very difficult to close after that by putting in place stringent requirements for the Coast Guard to meet should they ever consider closing it again. Under these rigorous new requirements, I am confident the Newport AIRFAC will continue to serve our Oregon coastal communities for years to come,” said Congressman Schrader. “I commend the Newport Fishermen’s Wives and all the supporters of the Newport AIRFAC for their tireless efforts to preserve the helo for the Central Oregon Coast. I also want to thank Congressman DeFazio who has worked hard to ensure this provision made it into the final bill and I look forward to its swift passage.” The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015 authorizes Coast Guard and Federal Maritime Commission funding levels for two years, and includes provisions to improve Coast Guard mission effectiveness, help modernize the Service’s aging vessels and other assets, and reform U.S. maritime transportation laws. The House version of the bill (H.R. 1987) was introduced by Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA), along with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Ranking Member John Garamendi (D-CA). The final air facility language was agreed to during negotiations with the Senate Commerce Committee and included in an updated Coast Guard Authorization Act (H.R. 4188) that was introduced earlier this week. Today the House passed H.R. 4188 and it will now be considered in the Senate. That language included in H.R. 4188 extends the prohibition on the closure of any Coast Guard facility for two additional years until January 1, 2018. After that date, the Coast Guard may only close an air facility if: The Secretary of Homeland Security submits to Congress plans to continue to offer adequate protection to our coasts as they retire and replace outdated helicopters. The Secretary can clearly demonstrate that: remaining search and rescue capabilities will maintain the safety of the public in the area; weather and marine conditions, including water temperatures and unusual tides, do not require continued operation of the air facility; and standard search and rescue response times will continue to be met; The Secretary convenes public meetings in communities in the air facility’s service area to allow for public input on any proposed closure; and Prior to closure or a reduction in services, the Secretary must submit to Congress in the President’s budget request any proposal for closure, cessation, or reductions in operations. Once the budget request is submitted, the Coast Guard has 7 days to provide explicit written notice to Congress. Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy. The Oregon delegation successfully passed legislation last year that prevented closure and will keep the U.S. Coast Guard’s air facility at Newport open through January 1, 2016. However, additional Congressional action is necessary to ensure the air facility in Newport is maintained in 2016 and beyond.
12.04.2015	Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio applauded House passage of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), a bipartisan, long-term transportation bill that will create family-wage jobs, rebuild and replace the nation’s aging infrastructure, and boost the economy. The FAST Act is the bicameral, bipartisan agreement of the House-Senate Conference Committee that was tasked with resolving differences between the surface transportation bills passed earlier this year in the House and Senate. The bill passed the House of Representatives with 359 votes. DeFazio was the lead House Democratic negotiator on the bill. “After ten years of short-term band-aids and extensions, Congress will finally pass a long-term, bipartisan surface transportation bill that will begin to deal with our aging network of roads, bridges, and transit systems,” said DeFazio. “This is a common-sense, bipartisan bill that provides our state and local governments with the certainty they need to begin to plan for long-term projects that bring our aging system into the 21st century. This legislation isn’t perfect. However, I am happy that the FAST Act includes higher funding levels than the House-passed bill. I am also pleased that it includes a critical provision that allows for automatic adjustments and increased infrastructure investment if more money flows into the Highway Trust Fund. If Congress does the right thing and comes up with more revenue to deposit into the Highway Trust Fund, this mechanism will allow those funds to be invested in our surface transportation infrastructure, without any additional action by Congress. I commend Chairman Shuster, who Chaired the Conference, and my colleagues in both the House and Senate who helped craft this important legislation. I look forward to this bill being signed into law.” Under the FAST Act, over the next five years Oregon will receive over $2.6 billion in federal highway funding to rebuild and replace our crumbling highways, and over $500 million in federal transit funding to fix and expand our transit systems. In 2005, DeFazio negotiated a change in the highway funding formula and as a result, Oregon now receives more in gas tax dollars than it contributes to the Federal Highway Trust Fund. Under the prior formula, Oregon received 99 cents for every $1 contributed. Under the formula DeFazio secured, Oregon will receive $1.25 for every $1 contributed. Oregon will receive an additional $325 million in the FAST Act because of the DeFazio-Oregon formula fix. The FAST Act is a five-year, fully paid-for surface transportation reauthorization of federal highway, transit, highway safety, motor carrier safety, hazardous materials, and passenger rail programs. The bill provides long-term certainty for states and local governments, strengthens Buy America provisions that create jobs and boost American manufacturing, and increases funding for freight projects, public transit, Amtrak and transportation alternatives. To watch DeFazio speak about the long-term highways bill, click here. To read a FAST Act Oregon Fact Sheet, click here.
12.02.2015	Washington, DC –Today, Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) joined a letter led by Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA) sent to the Director of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Shaun Donovan urging the agency to increase funding for small ports in the Pacific Northwest in their FY 2017 budget proposal. In the letter, members urge OMB to consider the needs of small coastal waterways in the Northwest as they develop their budget proposal. “Small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs in these states. Commercial trading and fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon and Washington coastal port communities and to our states, region and nation,” the members write. In recent years, federal commercial navigation projects on the Pacific Northwest coast have been routinely overlooked and remain critically underfunded. Even with the mandatory minimum funding allocation for small ports in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA), many Northwest “emerging harbors” were left unfunded in the President’s FY 2016 budget proposal. Without adequate dredging, the navigation channels leading to these ports will silt in and the jetties protecting these communities will crumble. Without safe access to ocean fishing grounds, vessels remain docked and a major economic driver in these small communities is gone. “It is imperative for the Administration to show its commitment now and fund these small ports in the FY 2017 budget proposal. We believe it is the responsibility of the federal government to ensure that our coastal ports in Oregon and Washington, and throughout the nation, remain open for business and continue to contribute to the economic health of the U.S,” the letter continues. A copy of the letter is included below. # # # December 2, 2015 Mr. Shaun Donovan Director Office of Management and Budget725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Mr. Donovan: As you develop your FY 2017 budget proposal, we ask that you address the needs of small coastal waterways in the Pacific Northwest. These small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs in these states. Commercial trading and fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon and Washington coastal port communities and to our states, region and nation. These federal commercial navigation projects are routinely overlooked and remain critically underfunded. We are disappointed that in recent years, most of the small ports on our coasts were completely zeroed out in the administration’s budget. Even with the mandatory minimum funding allocation for small ports in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA), many Northwest “emerging harbors” were left unfunded in the FY 2016 budget proposal. Congress has been clear about its support for these small ports by increasing Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) expenditures. We urge you, at a minimum, to reach the overall target for HMTF expenditures set forth in WRRDA and to allocate no less than 10 percent of maintenance dredging funds to meet the critical needs of small ports in the Northwest and throughout the nation. Congress has shown its commitment to these navigation projects by providing programmatic funding pots each year. It is imperative for the Administration to show its commitment now and fund these small ports in the FY 2017 budget proposal. Without adequate funding, the navigation channels leading to these ports will silt in and the jetties protecting these communities will crumble. Ports provide employment for a significant proportion of these communities. Without access to the ports and the open ocean, the main economic driver in these communities is gone. It is important to give certainty and support to these small communities. We believe it is the responsibility of the federal government to ensure that our coastal ports in Oregon and Washington, and throughout the nation, remain open for business and continue to contribute to the economic health of the U.S. Leaving our small port needs unmet threatens the jobs of our citizens and weakens our national economic competitiveness. We thank you for your consideration and efforts and look forward to working with you to address this issue. Sincerely,
11.19.2015	Lawmakers today blasted announcements from the FDA approving weak GMO-labeling measures that deny consumers the right to know how the food they purchase for their families is produced. The FDA also approved the application for AquAdvantage salmon, the first genetically-engineered animal sanctioned for human consumption. The agency also determined that manufacturers of AquAdvantage salmon will not be required to label the salmon as genetically-engineered. Despite polling demonstrating that 90 percent of Americans support requiring mandatory GMO labeling, the FDA moved forward with a decision to finalize the existing policy which does not adequately inform consumers of the content of the food they buy. The policy allows manufacturers to voluntarily label their products as containing ingredients from genetically-engineered sources rather than requiring companies to disclose genetically-engineered ingredients. The group of lawmakers, which includes Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Congressman Jared Huffman (CA-02), Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-5), Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), are ardent supporters of GMO labeling and providing consumers the right to know what’s in their food. The legislators are all co-sponsors of Congressman DeFazio’s bill, the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act, legislation that would require mandatory labeling of genetically-engineered foods, including genetically-engineered salmon. “The FDA’s decisions are irresponsible at best,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio. “The decision to allow the sale of genetically-modified salmon threatens the Pacific Northwest’s endangered salmon stocks and jeopardizes a major industry in our region. To make matters worse, despite widespread support for GMO labeling, the FDA would not require mandatory GMO labeling for these “Franken-Fish”, denying consumers the right to know if they are purchasing genetically-engineered salmon raised in fish farms. I will do all that I can to reverse this wrong-headed decision and protect the Pacific Northwest’s world-class salmon industry.” “I am deeply concerned with FDA’s decision to approve AquaBounty’s application. This is not just approving a “new ingredient” concocted in a lab: by approving GE salmon, the FDA is allowing the release of a new hybrid animal that could pose a danger to our wild salmon populations, damage the ecosystems they live in, and undermine our domestic commercial fisheries,” said Co-Chair of the Congressional Wild Salmon Caucus, Congressman Jared Huffman. “Consumers rightly support domestic and sustainable wild salmon fisheries, and this product will create confusion. It has no place in our waters or on America’s dinner plates. I will continue to work with my colleagues and industry stakeholders—like Whole Foods and Trader Joes—who have already come out opposed to GE salmon, to halt this hazardous action by FDA.” “Today, the FDA made the short-sighted decision to approve genetically-engineered salmon, putting wild salmon, our fishing families, and the health of American families at risk,” said Congressman Mike Thompson. Not only did the FDA approve GE salmon, but also made labeling of GE salmon products voluntary, undermining consumer choice and confidence. Americans have a right to know what is on their dinner plates. Until rigorous scientific studies are completed and the health and safety of American families and future of imperiled wild salmon populations can be assured, these fish shouldn’t be in our waters or stores.” “Consumers deserve to know what they are putting into their bodies and feeding to their children. Over 90 percent of Americans want to know whether the food they buy contains GMOs. FDA’s draft guidance for voluntary labeling of food from genetically modified salmon and its final guidance for voluntary labeling of food from plants are not an effective solution and leave consumers in the dark. I urge the agency to do more,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro "I'm deeply disturbed to see FDA take this unprecedented action approving genetically modified salmon, which could open the floodgates to allowing other GMO animals in the marketplace. And as if genetically engineering animals wasn't bad enough, consumers will be denied the right to know whether or not their salmon is GMO. At a time when consumers are demanding to know more about what's in their food, FDA is caving to industry pressure and taking a dramatic and dangerous step in the opposite direction," said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree. ###
11.10.2015	“The decision by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission to remove gray wolves from the Oregon endangered species list is outrageous. With only 81 known wolves in the state, the gray wolf needs protection now more than ever. Although the Commission is supposed to base their decisions in sound science, they instead caved to powerful ranching and other special interests. I’m urging the Governor and the Legislature to act and correct this wrongheaded decision, before it is too late for the gray wolf.” BACKGROUND: Congressman DeFazio has fought for protections for the gray wolf throughout his time in Congress. On November 5, he sent a letter to the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission urging them to keep the gray wolf on Oregon’s endangered species list. (Text of the letter can be found below.) On Monday, November 9, the Commission voted to delist wolves. In 2013, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) recommended removing federal protections for gray wolves across most of the lower 48 states. In January 2014, a peer review from an independent, objective panel of top wolf scientists evaluated the proposed delisting and the science behind it. The reviewers unanimously found the Service did not use the “best available science” when they decided to remove the gray wolf from protections under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Rep. DeFazio has sent multiple bipartisan letters to the USFWS and Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell, urging them to continue protections for the gray wolf under the ESA. The Service’s pending proposed delisting has generated over 1 million comments since 2013. # # # November 5, 2015 Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission 4034 Fairview Industrial Drive S.E. Salem, Oregon 97302 Dear Chairman Finley and Commissioners, I understand you are considering a recent recommendation by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (Department) to delist the gray wolf from the state Endangered Species Act. Wolves have just begun to recover in Oregon and still only inhabit small portions of their historical range. I believe the Department’s recommendation is premature and not supported by the best available science and I urge you to reject it. The entire nation has been riveted by the journey of OR-7 and the ongoing establishment of wolves in areas such as western Oregon where they have not been present in sixty-eight years. I’m proud of the work that Oregon has done to get to this point. Despite the success we have had in Oregon, wolf recovery is still at a very fragile, early stage in recovery. Wolves have just moved out of the first recovery phase in the state’s eastern recovery zone, and have populated just 11 percent of suitable habitat in the state. Population numbers are simply not high enough and distribution not wide enough to warrant a state delisting. The reintroduction of wolves in the northern Rockies started with 66 wolves, just 11 less than Oregon currently has. With my extensive experience with federal wolf delisting efforts, I know it is critically important that wildlife management, especially management of an iconic predator species like the gray wolf, is based upon sound scientific findings and analysis. The fact that the Department decided not to conduct a thorough scientific review is alarming, especially since the pending federal proposal to delist the gray wolf has been mired in controversy over both the science used to justify the delisting as well as improper influence by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on the independent peer-review panel. It is critical that the Department and Commission take a precautious approach and avoid risks to species recovery. While I am encouraged by the hard work the Department put into the wolf status review, the Department should conduct an external, independent peer-review panel of its proposal to ensure a scientifically defensible path forward that is consistent with Oregon’s Endangered Species Act. Caution needs to be exercised and delisting could signal to some that it is “open season” on wolves. The experiences of other states such as Idaho and Wyoming provide evidence of this. It is critical we avoid any increases in wolf mortality during this early recovery period. We cannot simply hunt wolves back down to their lowest sustainable population levels. Just last month the alpha pair of the Sled Springs pack was mysteriously found dead near Enterprise. This should not be tolerable in Oregon. The extensive non-lethal efforts and stakeholder outreach by the Department have made Oregon the model for wolf conservation in the nation. Delisting will signal a sharp departure from these efforts that have made wolf recovery a success so far in our state. Conducting an external scientific peer review on the Department’s proposal to ensure it can move forward with legal and scientific confidence is the right path forward. I urge you to reject this premature delisting decision that could harm wolf recovery efforts in Oregon. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio
11.10.2015	Today, Oregon’s Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Representative Peter DeFazio announced new, bipartisan legislation to improve health care at VA facilities. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would make common-sense changes in staffing policies at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and improve veterans care at VA health care facilities. The legislation was introduced today in the Senate by a bipartisan coalition of Senators and will be introduced by DeFazio in the House next week. At many VA health centers around the country, veterans face wait times of weeks or even months for an appointment. These severe roadblocks to providing timely and quality health care to veterans stem in part from a shortfall of tens of thousands of medical staff. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would reduce bureaucratic obstacles to make it easier for the VA to boost staffing at VA health centers and reduce wait times. “Our veterans have stepped up, taken the oath, and put on the uniform so that the rest of us can live in a country that is safer and more secure,” said Merkley. “They have stood up for us, and we must stand up for them. Long wait times put our veterans’ health in jeopardy and are simply unacceptable. It’s absurd that doctors can’t move from one VA hospital to another without significant red tape. It’s just common sense to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles like these and to create a ‘docs-to-doctors’ pipeline from the military into the VA system.” “Our military medical professionals are some of the best-trained, most experienced folks around when it comes to providing care,” Wyden said. "This bill will help the VA tap that resource, cutting red tape, hiring the trained medical professionals it desperately needs, and reducing wait times for our veterans at home.” “After years of gross negligence and outrageous mismanagement, there is no reason the VA should not explore every possible option to improve their policies,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Long wait times, practitioner shortages, and haphazard administrative standards are impacting the quality of care that our nation’s veterans are receiving. Our bill will cut bureaucratic red tape and instill some much-needed common sense into the VA’s policies.” "The Douglas County Veterans Forum is pleased to endorse the ‘Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act,’” said John McDonald, President of the Douglas County Veterans Forum. “We want to thank Senator Merkley, Senator Wyden and Congressman DeFazio for this common sense bill that will facilitate a seamless transition from military service into a VA Healthcare system that is experiencing a drought in providers.” The legislation would make it easier for servicemembers who have served in medical roles to transfer directly into the VA system, make it easier to transfer or share medical staff and services across VA facilities, and allow Advanced Practice Registered Nurses and Physicians Assistants to provide a wider range of health care to patients, helping expand care in rural areas. “Docs-to-Doctors” Program to Help Servicemembers Leaving the Military Transition to the VA To provide VA with a large pool of trained medical staff who are already serving their country, this program improves the ability of the VA to recruit veterans who served as health care providers while in the military by: Requiring that VA receive a list of servicemembers who served in a health care capacity while in the military or as part of the Coast Guard and have filed for separation in the previous 12 months; and Treating these veterans as applicants from within the VA to allow for a more expeditious hiring process Uniform Credentialing Standards Currently, VA doctors have to “recredential” every time they change hospitals or provide services at a hospital outside of their VA regional healthcare system. VA doctors report that his can take from six weeks to three months. In a unified health care system like the VA, it needlessly limits the VA’s flexibility to have medical professionals provide services where they are most needed. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would require the VA Secretary to create uniform credentialing rules for medical professionals across the Veterans Health Administration. Full Practice Authority for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) and Physician Assistants Advanced Practice Registered Nurses—nurses with post-graduate education in nursing—have advanced skills in either a specialist field or a generalist capacity, and are qualified for an advanced scope of practice. While many states allow them to practice across their full range of skills, giving health care systems better flexibility to meet patient needs, the VA has not yet granted APRNs this full practice authority. The bill requires the Secretary to provide full practice authority to all APRNs and Physician Assistants in Veterans Health Administration, based on the scope of practice recommended by the appropriate professional organizations. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act is supported by more than 40 veterans and health care organizations, including the Vietnam Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Reserve Officers Association (ROA), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), and the American Nurses Association. ###
11.05.2015	Today, the United States House of Representatives passed the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (STRR), a bipartisan, six year bill to begin to repair and rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges, and transit systems. Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) was the lead Democratic co-sponsor and negotiated the policy details over several months with Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) to produce an overwhelmingly bipartisan final bill. Following is DeFazio’s statement: “I thought this day might never come. For too long, we have punted by passing short-term extension after short-term extension, leaving our state and local governments in limbo and freezing critical projects. I am very pleased, that after months of hard work and negotiation, the House finally passed this bipartisan, compromise bill. “This legislation isn’t perfect. Unfortunately, it doesn’t provide the level of investment needed to repair or rebuild our aging 1950s-era system of roads, bridges, and public transit systems. It does, however, include a critical provision that would allow for automatic adjustments and increased infrastructure investment if more money flows into the Highway Trust Fund than currently projected. If Congress does the right thing and comes up with more revenue to deposit into the Highway Trust Fund, this mechanism will invest those funds in our surface transportation infrastructure, without any additional action by Congress. This is a step in the right direction. I commend Chairman Shuster for this bill and look forward to the upcoming conference with the Senate,” The House passed the STRR Act 363-64 after three days of debate and consideration of over 100 amendments. The Senate passed a similar bill in July. Over the next few weeks the House and Senate will negotiate a final long-term transportation bill that can be approved by both Houses and signed into law by the President. To see video of Ranking Member DeFazio speaking on the floor about the STRR Act, click here. The STRR Act KEY POINTS Provides Long-term Funding: Provides $325 billion, funded from the Highway Trust Fund, over six years for highway, transit, and highway safety programs. The length of the bill is an acknowledgment that short-term solutions are not helpful, as they cause States and public transit authorities to delay or cancel projects, breed uncertainty in the Federal program, and end up increasing the costs of project delivery. Bypasses Congress to Increase Transportation Investments: This legislation isn’t perfect. Unfortunately, it doesn’t provide the level of investment needed to repair or rebuild our aging 1950s-era system of roads, bridges, and public transit systems. It does, however, include a critical provision that would allow for automatic adjustments and increased infrastructure investment if more money flows into the Highway Trust Fund than currently projected. If Congress does the right thing and comes up with more revenue to deposit into the Highway Trust Fund, this mechanism will invest those funds in our surface transportation infrastructure, without any additional action by Congress. This is a step in the right direction. Boosts Commerce and Economic Competitiveness: To be competitive in the world economy, we need to be able to get our goods and people from point A to point B in the quickest, most efficient way possible. This legislation creates a program for major freight and highway projects of national or regional importance, which will boost commerce and improve the movement of goods. For the first time, the Federal Government will provide dedicated funding specifically for freight megaprojects, including up to $500 million in freight rail projects. Creates American Jobs: This legislation increases American manufacturing jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements and raising the domestic content threshold of transit buses and rail cars from 60 percent to 70 percent. If we are investing American dollars, we should make sure those dollars are supporting American manufacturing and creating jobs here at home—not in China. Promotes Safety: Boosts funding for railway-highway grade crossings, motor carrier safety grants, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration grants; ensures higher standards for transit safety; protects bus driver safety; and encourages states to provide mental health and substance abuse treatment to DUI offenders. Strengthens Emergency Response: Provides increased funding for States to plan for hazardous materials transportation accidents and train emergency responders, and requires railroads transporting flammable liquids to maintain comprehensive oil spill response plans which include procedures and resources for responding to a worst-case discharge. Reduces Workforce Skills Gap: Authorizes grants to help transit agencies overcome workforce skill gaps by recruiting and training transit workers who are from underrepresented populations, including minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, veterans, and low-income workers. These grants also provide better frontline workforce training on safety, security, emergency preparedness, and communication during emergencies. Promotes 21st Century Vehicles: Requires U.S. DOT to designate national electric vehicle charging, hydrogen, and natural gas fueling corridors to identify the near and long-term investments needed to support vehicles of the future. Explores Future Funding Mechanisms: Provides $115 million to enable States to test and experiment with innovative ways to fund needed infrastructure improvements, including Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) mechanisms, which are critical to identifying a sustainable, long-term revenue stream for surface transportation investment. --30--
11.05.2015	The office of Representative Peter DeFazio released the following statement today: “Rep. DeFazio unexpectedly had to return to Oregon today to undergo emergency surgery on his right eye to relieve high pressure that could not be controlled by medication. The goal of the surgery is to prevent further damage to his optic nerve and maintain sight in the eye. Recurring treatment has caused him to miss a number of votes including last night when he went to the emergency room in Washington, D.C. “Congressman DeFazio is expected to make a full recovery from surgery. However, the length of recovery is uncertain at this point. Rep. DeFazio may have to miss additional votes in Washington, D.C. over the next few weeks.”
10.15.2015	“My colleagues in Washington need to get their heads out of the sand and start addressing the very real problems facing seniors today. It is completely unacceptable that the government will not be issuing a cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security recipients in 2016. “We must reform the way we calculate the COLAs to take into account what seniors are actually buying. The cost of medical care, prescription drugs, housing and other essentials is steadily rising, yet seniors are being denied meaningful cost-of-living adjustments. This is intolerable. “I’ve introduced legislation that would more accurately calculate COLAs to reflect the real costs of items seniors purchase, instead of items purchased by average consumers. The Fair Adjustment and Income Revenue (FAIR) for Social Security Act, H.R. 1984, would provide a significant increase in monthly benefits for Social Security beneficiaries and help Oregon’s seniors afford the things they need the most.” BACKGROUND: Congressman DeFazio introduced H.R. 1984, the FAIR Social Security Act, in April of 2015. The bill would improve cost-of-living adjustments by ensuring the formula accurately reflects senior citizens’ actual buying habits, including items such as food, prescription medication and housing. With the new formula established in the bill, an average senior at the age of 80 would see about a $43 per month increase in benefits, while the average senior at age 90 would see about a $70 per month increase in benefits.
10.05.2015	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement on the completion of the Trans Pacific Partnership negotiations: “The completion of negotiations on the specifics of the TPP changes very little: it’s still a bad deal that will devastate American manufacturing, cause massive layoffs and prioritize corporate interests over the needs of everyday Americans. “The deal, if approved by Congress, will still subject Americans to the same failed trade policies first introduced in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)—the trade agreement that destroyed America’s middle-income workforce and sent millions of jobs overseas. “This deal still blocks sick people in developing nations from accessing affordable, life-saving drugs. This deal still allows giant corporations to attack consumer protections for the sake of increasing their own profits. “The stark reality is that Congress has already ceded its constitutional authority to the President by passing “Fast Track” and gave away its opportunity to amend the agreement. But we still have one more chance to kill the last, biggest, worst trade deal in history. “I will continue to fight against this misguided agreement and do everything I can to protect American workers when it comes to the Floor for a final vote.”
10.01.2015	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement on the tragic shooting at Umpqua Community College earlier today: “Today’s shooting in Roseburg is a heartbreaking tragedy, and my thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. I want to extend my deepest gratitude to Roseburg’s first responders for their work in responding to the event. Once we know more about what happened today, I plan to work with my colleagues in Congress to find ways to prevent tragedies such as these.”
09.30.2015	Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 719, the Continuing Appropriations for FY 2016: “To my surprise, Congress was able to do the responsible thing in the short term and pass a clean spending bill that will keep the government open for the next 72 days. The problem is, this will set us up for another budget crisis and potential shutdown just in time for Christmas. “This is no way to run the government. To listen to my Republican colleagues, it would seem that our nation’s biggest problem is not the desperate underfunding of transportation projects, the exorbitant costs of higher education, or the solvency of the Social Security Trust Fund, but that we have not yet entirely blocked women’s access to affordable health care. “Instead of tackling the most pressing problems that our country is dealing with, we spend our time in Washington lurching from short-term fix to short-term fix while a small minority of congressional Republicans holds the nation hostage. Meanwhile, counties and cities across the United States are left without the resources they need to plan for critical infrastructure construction and repair projects. This tiresome practice of bringing us perilously close to the brink of shutdown over and over again is ensuring that nothing can get done anywhere in America. “The past five years of congressional leadership have resulted in a complete failure to govern, at the expense of Americans who deserve better. I can only hope that the new Republican leadership will make an effort to put an end to the partisan showmanship of their radical caucus and enforce responsible leadership.”
09.16.2015	The House of Representatives today approved legislation sponsored by Congressman Peter DeFazio that would strengthen the tribal authority and expand the land rights of three Southwestern Oregon federally-recognized tribes. Rep. DeFazio’s bill, the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act (H.R. 2791) provides land in trust to the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians and to the Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians. Currently, the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe Indians and the Confederated tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians do not hold any land in trust. The increase in tribal lands will spur job development and economic growth for both tribes. The bill also restores the Coquille Indian Tribe’s sovereignty over the Coquille Forest. Unlike any other tribe in the United States, the Coquille Tribe must function under a legal anomaly with regard to managing its forest. “These tribes have waited for Congress to make good on a deal made decades ago, and today they are finally gaining some of the recognition they deserve,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio. “Due to an embarrassing chapter in our nation’s history, these tribes have been unable to govern themselves as the sovereign nations that they are. While there is still much work to be done, the passage of the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act is a move towards progress. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation quickly.” "We are thrilled by the passage of H.R. 2791," said Chairman Mark Ingersoll of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians. "Representatives DeFazio and Walden have helped their colleagues take a big step toward making jobs and justice a reality for the Tribe and for western Oregon." “Today is a great step forward toward restoring the integrity of our Treaty with the federal government for a permanent reservation for the Cow Creek people,” said Cow Creek Chairman Dan Courtney. “We are grateful for the tremendous personal effort given by Congressman DeFazio and the whole Oregon delegation in moving our bill through the House of Representatives." "This legislation is critical to sustain the Coquille Tribe's environmentally responsible forest management, which produces jobs and supplies vital logs to Oregon's struggling mills,” said Coquille Indian Tribe Chairperson Brenda Meade. “We applaud Congressman DeFazio for his tireless work to help Oregon with this legislation.” The bill now heads to the Senate for further consideration. ###
09.11.2015	(For a video of Congressman DeFazio speaking on the House Floor in support of the Iran Nuclear Agreement, please click here.) Today I stand in proud support of the international agreement reached by the P5+1 nations (France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Russia, China, and the United States) that is aimed at preventing Iran from becoming a nuclear-armed state. Preventing a nuclear arms race in the Middle East is essential to the security of the U.S., Israel, and the larger international community. It is why the U.S. led negotiations on this agreement and why this agreement has the unanimous support of the U.N. Security Council, over 90 nations, our Gulf state allies, and the world’s largest powers. Under this agreement, Iran has committed to obligations that go far beyond the requirements of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. The agreement will block every pathway to a bomb for at least fifteen years. It will require Iran to eliminate 97 percent of its stockpile of enriched uranium, remove two-thirds of its installed centrifuges that enrich uranium as well as remove all the pipework and infrastructure that connects the centrifuges, and terminate the use of its advanced centrifuges to produce enriched uranium. Iran will be required to fill the core of the heavy water Arak reactor with concrete and repurpose it for peaceful purposes. Additionally the deal directs Iran to ship all spent fuel from the reactor out of the country, and prohibits Iran from building any new heavy water reactors. Experts say that these steps are not easily reversible and it would take Iran anywhere from two to five years to rebuild that infrastructure. Efforts to rebuild it would be detected within a few days. Under the agreement, Iran’s uranium and plutonium manufacturing capabilities will be both severely limited and strictly monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The IAEA will be granted around-the-clock access to Iran’s uranium mills, mines, conversion facilities, centrifuge manufacturing and storage facilities, making it nearly impossible for the Iranian government to violate their manufacturing restrictions. The IAEA will also have access to sites of concern where they believe unauthorized production to be taking place. If Iran fully complies with this agreement it will be an historic moment not only for the U.S. but for the rest of the world. If Iran violates the agreement, U.S., U.N., and EU sanctions will be snapped back into place. Further, all U.S. sanctions on Iran related to their involvement in terrorism and human rights abuses remain in place. All of the P5+1 partners understand that the U.S. will continue to strongly enforce these sanctions, including sanctions that impact non-U.S. entities. While I will not question the intentions of my colleagues, since we all have the same goal which is to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran, some of the rhetoric in opposition to this agreement has been damaging, unhelpful, and at times absurd. Opponents of the agreement have called into question the integrity of the IAEA and their ability as the world’s foremost independent organization on nuclear non-proliferation to do their work—for example, by claiming that the confidential nuclear safeguards agreement between the IAEA and Iran is a “side deal” and must be made available to the U.S. government. There is too much at stake and this debate merits a serious conversation based on facts. We need to move beyond the irresponsible, heated rhetoric and do what’s necessary to assure that this agreement is successful, will not be violated by Iran, and ensuring that if violations occur there will be serious consequences. When this agreement is implemented Iran will be further away from the bomb than they are today. It will result in prolonging their timeline for creating a nuclear bomb from a matter of months to at least one year. Without the agreement, Iran would be able to continue their nuclear program unrestrained. If the U.S. walked away from the agreement, Iran would most likely ramp up their centrifuge production—as they did after the U.S. imposed sanctions—which would surely spark a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. Congress should play a supportive role in ensuring that the president can implement this agreement and provide oversight of Iran’s compliance. Instead, my Republican colleagues are attempting to scuttle and undermine it, damaging U.S. credibility in the international community and creating a potentially dangerous security position for our nation. While I have not always agreed with President Obama’s foreign policy choices I have fully supported his efforts to resolve the crisis over Iran’s nuclear ambitions through diplomacy. The conclusion of this agreement demonstrates just how far the U.S. has come in repairing the damage wrought during the Bush administration. It proves that once again the U.S. can be trusted in working with both our allies and adversaries in navigating some of the world’s most challenging security issues. The U.S. has nothing to lose by implementing this agreement—all options remain on the table, but we have a lot to lose if we walk away. Rejecting this agreement like some of my colleagues are advocating would take us back to some of the darkest years in U.S. history. Opponents of this agreement are using arguments put forth by Dick Cheney and Benjamin Netanyahu, two leading cheerleaders of the Iraq war—the worst U.S. foreign policy mistake in the history of our nation. Nobody wants to become further entangled in an endless war in the Middle East. The U.S. wasted more than $4 trillion on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and spent more money rebuilding Afghanistan than we did on the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe after World War II. What have the results been? Afghanistan is still a mess and Iraq is rife with religious and ethnic strife and partially overrun by ISIS. Preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon would be a huge step forward in the most unstable and dangerous region of the world. Implementing this agreement is the only option and the best alternative available to taking military action. Lastly, I'm hopeful that the successful implementation of this agreement will lead to a permanent peaceful resolution to this matter and open up a new chapter in Iranian-U.S. relations. Iran’s future is also at stake and there is a young Iranian population that would like to see better relations with the U.S. and a more open Iran. This agreement should not be viewed as an irreversible capitulation to Iran. It is the first step in what will be a very long and arduous road to resolving critical issues with Iran and ensuring a safer Middle East.
08.27.2015	Eugene, OR – Today, Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) pressed for critical legislation that would provide needed resources to fight catastrophic wildfires and prevent so-called fire borrowing that drains resources from efforts to reduce fuel and prevent future fires. This comes after an announcement by United States Forest Service (USFS) Chief Tom Tidwell that the agency will exhaust their firefighting budget well before the end of fire season. “The Forest Service has notified us that they will run out of money to fight catastrophic fires in a matter of days. This means they will ‘borrow’ up to $450 million from their fuel reduction and other accounts and stop projects that mitigate, prevent, or lessen the severity of future fires. This idiotic cycle of fire borrowing must stop. The House passed legislation in July that included my language to treat catastrophic wildfires like the natural disasters they are. That bill is now waiting for action in the Senate. I will press to include the same language in the upcoming FEMA reauthorization. It’s time for Congress to wake up and smell the smoke,” said DeFazio. BACKGROUND USFS says they plan to borrow up to $450 million to fight wildfires in the bone-dry West: $128 million from Restoration of Forest Lands and Improvements; $30 million from Brush Disposal; $25 million wildland fire management and fuels reduction; and $20 million from the National Forest Fund. DeFazio fought for a provision that would treat catastrophic forest fires as natural disasters, like earthquakes or tornadoes, ending a cycle of fire borrowing that has hindered fire-suppression efforts. The language was included in the Resilient Federal Forests Act, which passed the House on July 9th and is now awaiting action in the Senate. DeFazio’s provision would provide additional, much-needed funding to prevent and fight wildfires in the Pacific Northwest. Last year, Congressman DeFazio led efforts to force a vote in the House on bipartisan legislation that would have fixed wildfire funding issues. ###
08.26.2015	Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio announced a new grant of nearly $364,000 for the Oregon Cascades West Council Governments to fund the Foster Grandparents Senior Corps program. The Foster Grandparent Program pairs seniors with disadvantaged or special-needs children for mentoring, tutoring and support with school readiness and academic engagement. The grant will support as many as 30 Foster Grandparent volunteers and will restore service to Linn and Benton Counties, which previously offered the Foster Grandparent program, and extend the service to Lincoln County. The Foster Grandparent program is one of three Senior Corps programs. Senior Corps, part of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), connects more than five million older Americans with volunteer opportunities in their communities. In Oregon, more than 5,200 seniors participate in Senior Corps programs. “I am especially proud to announce this award for the Foster Grandparents program,” said Congressman DeFazio. “From the time I fought to bring the very first Senior Corps program to Oregon in 1977, I have been working to expand and protect critical community programs like this one. The impact that the Foster Grandparent Program has on our children and our communities is remarkable, and the tremendous value and experience for all participants is immeasurable. This new funding will enable our district’s children and seniors to benefit for years to come.” “For generations, seniors have been making a powerful impact in their communities, and their service is more important now than ever,” said Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service. “With so many people in need, senior volunteers are making a difference in the lives of children, veterans, elderly, and disaster survivors. Leading the way are more than 270,000 Senior Corps volunteers. We congratulate the Oregon Cascades West Council of Governments for their strong application, and thank all Senior Corps volunteers for their dedication to service.” This year marks the 50th Anniversary of the Foster Grandparent program in the United States.
08.13.2015	Rep. Peter DeFazio released the following statement in recognition of the 80th anniversary of President Franklin D. Roosevelt signing the Social Security Act into law tomorrow: “Eighty years ago, President Franklin Roosevelt took an historic step to ensure that all Americans, regardless of age, could live free from the threat of poverty. The enactment of the Social Security Act created a crucial safety net for our nation’s most vulnerable. “Today, 59 million Americans rely on Social Security—including more than 192,000 in Oregon’s 4th District. However, the program’s long-term solvency is threatened. I’ve been fighting for decades to create meaningful reforms that would protect Social Security and preserve the program for current and future beneficiaries. “Currently, the very wealthiest Americans are not required to pay Social Security taxes on income over $118,500. This gaping loophole allows billionaire hedge fund managers to pay a lower percentage of their income into Social Security than working-class American families. “That’s why I’ve introduced the Fair Adjustment and Income Revenue for Social Security Act, which would scrap the income cap and level the playing field for everyday Americans. If the top six percent of earners paid Social Security taxes at the same rate as middle-income earners, the program would generate enough income to provide full benefits until at least 2057. “I’ve also introduced legislation that would modify how the Social Security Administration calculates cost-of-living-adjustments (COLAs) for seniors to keep pace with the rising cost of living. Instead of using the current COLA formula, which is based on the price index of goods the average consumer purchases, my bill would require COLAs to be based on the high-cost goods that senior citizens traditionally buy, such as medical care and prescriptions. “Americans who have paid into Social Security for their whole lives deserve the full benefits they were promised. As we mark Social Security’s 80th anniversary, we are faced with choices as to how to provide those benefits to current beneficiaries and how to ensure those same benefits will exist for future seniors. Those who have paid into the program have made a deal with the United States, and I will never stop fighting to ensure the government holds up its end of the bargain.” To learn more about Rep. DeFazio’s plans to protect and preserve Social Security, click here.
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—At a town hall meeting in Port Orford yesterday, in response to a question from a constituent about the Iran nuclear deal, U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio announced his support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The JCPOA is an international agreement reached by the P5+1 nations (France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Russia, China, and the United States) that is aimed at preventing Iran from manufacturing a nuclear weapon. “The P5+1 and Iran have reached an historic agreement, one that brings us closer than ever before to a de-weaponized Iran,” said Rep. DeFazio. “After careful consideration of the JCPOA, I have decided that the agreement is the best option that the global community has to ensure that Iran will not develop a nuclear weapon and I will lend it my full support when it comes to the House of Representatives for consideration.” “The threat of a nuclear Iran is too grave a risk to the United States and its allies to delay such an agreement in hopes of finding an elusive alternative—because in fact, there is no perfect deal or alternative. If the United States and Congress rejected this deal and headed back to the negotiating table, no other nation would follow us there. Unilateral U.S. actions in the Middle East have proven ineffective and we cannot afford to continue down that path. Abandoning a carefully constructed deal supported by our allies would make the region less safe.” “Acceptance of this deal leads to Iran losing its bomb-making capabilities in a matter of months, but it is likely that rejection of the deal would lead to Iran’s increased weapons production almost immediately.” “I have heard from many who have voiced concerns about Iran’s willingness to comply with this agreement, and I share their concerns. However, the JCPOA contains numerous measures that encourage Iran’s cooperation with the terms of the deal and checkpoints that ensure that the deal’s parameters are met before Iran receives any relief from multilateral sanctions. Should Iran violate the terms of the agreement, they will deal with substantial consequences from both the United States and the international community.” “I have often said throughout my time in Congress that there is no such thing as a perfect deal. While the JCPOA is not perfect, it is a significant international compromise that brings us closer than ever before towards the goal of a nuclear-free Iran.” BACKGROUND: The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) blocks every pathway to a bomb for Iran for the next ten years, and eliminates the plutonium path to a nuclear bomb permanently. It will require Iran to eliminate all but two percent of its stockpile of enriched uranium—far below the necessary amount to create nuclear weaponry. This will reduce Iran’s uranium enrichment capacity by half, and slows their timeline of creating a nuclear bomb from a matter of months to at least one year. Under the agreement, Iran’s uranium and plutonium manufacturing capabilities will be both severely limited and strictly monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Iran must remove two-thirds of its installed centrifuges and store them under international supervision, and it must terminate the use of its advanced centrifuges to produce enriched uranium for the next ten years. Iran will be required to repurpose the Arak water reactor, a heavy-water reactor currently under construction, for peaceful purposes. Additionally the deal directs Iran to ship all spent fuel from the reactor out of the country, and prohibits Iran from building any new heavy water reactors for fifteen years. The IAEA will be granted 24/7 access to Iran’s uranium mills, mines, conversion facilities, centrifuge manufacturing and storage facilities for the next 25 years, making it near-impossible for the Iranian government to violate their manufacturing regulations. The IAEA will also have access to sites of concern where they believe unauthorized production to be taking place. In exchange for compliance with these restrictions, the United States and the United Nations have agreed to lift sanctions currently in place on Iran. Sanctions relief will be phased in over the next several years. U.S. sanctions on Iran for state-sponsored terrorism, ballistic missile development, and human rights abuses will remain in place. If Iran violates the JCPOA, the sanctions can be reinstated. Congress has 60 days to review the deal before voting on approval or disapproval. ###
07.30.2015	Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced that the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) will dedicate $4 million to help support the production of an onshore earthquake early warning (EEW) system on the West Coast. The money will be awarded to four universities, including the University of Oregon. “Oregon needs more sensors when it comes to implementing our earthquake early warning system—especially in the southwestern part of the state. This grant from USGS is critical. It will support the great work being done at the University of Oregon to build an early warning system that gives people more time to get to safety during a major earthquake. It’s a great first step, but more must be done at the federal level. I will continue to push for the funding necessary to continue development of the EEW system, so we can save as many lives and prevent as many injuries as we possibly can,” said DeFazio. USGS awarded the $4 million to four universities – California Institute of Technology, University of California, Berkeley, University of Washington and University of Oregon. This money will support the production of an onshore earthquake detection system called “ShakeAlert.” According to USGS, the money will help run a robust ShakeAlert production prototype system at three centers (in Northern California, Southern California, and the Pacific Northwest), boost research and development of new features to improve the system and user engagement, and upgrade seismic networks. “These funds are being used by the University of Oregon to adopt fifteen new sites in Oregon and make them earthquake early warning compliant,” said Doug Toomey, University of Oregon Geological Sciences Professor. “We will reconfigure the telemetry of the sensors that the Oregon Legislature funded earlier this year to reduce latency from tens of seconds to just a few. In addition, we will add a full-time project manager and field engineer to support the operations and maintenance of these and other sites.” Toomey noted that the U.S. Geological Survey awarded $1 million to West Coast seismic networks earlier in the year to upgrade sites in Oregon and Washington. The University of Oregon has managed Oregon sites for the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network since 1990. “Congressman DeFazio and the Oregon delegation have been consistent advocates for earthquake early warning. These investments add momentum to the eventual establishment of a fully built out west coast earthquake early warning system.” “The federal investment in earthquake early warning is supported by university research and our capacity to manage scientific infrastructure. This investment creates both a public service benefit as well as new opportunities for scientific discovery in a seismically active region,” said Michael H. Schill, University of Oregon president. “These monitors also contribute to our investment in faculty hiring, specifically our clusters of excellence focus in Volcanology, that will help us make new discoveries about our earth.” In March, DeFazio joined over 35 Members of Congress in sending a letter to the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee urging an additional $16.1 million be appropriated for the transition of the EEW from a demonstration project to an operational system. Earlier this week, DeFazio introduced legislation that would require FEMA to develop a plan, and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an offshore earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. To read the USGS press release, click here.
07.28.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Today, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation to fund an earthquake early warning system that could save lives, reduce injuries, and mitigate infrastructure damage from the devastating effects of a major quake off the Oregon Coast. “A catastrophic earthquake is not hypothetical. It is a not a question of if an earthquake will happen. It is a question of when. My legislation is pretty simple. It would direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to provide critical funding for an earthquake early warning system that could save thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage. The federal government needs to start taking this threat seriously and this bill is a needed first step,” said DeFazio. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, manufacturing lines, close bridges, and evacuate students from unsafe schools. It can help reduce the long-term economic losses that are often excluded from damage estimates. An earthquake early warning system worked during the 2011 earthquake in Japan. Most of the deaths in the 2011 event were caused by the tsunami. A few minutes extra warning could give coastal residents time to seek higher ground, saving thousands of lives. The low death and injury rate from the 2011 earthquake is attributed to the extensive early warning system in place in Japan. A warning of just a few seconds can have significant impact by alerting citizens of the need to take appropriate action when an earthquake occurs. DeFazio’s legislation would require FEMA to develop a plan, and identify the necessary funding for purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. Watch video of DeFazio discussing his legislation here. OREGON BACKGROUND Oregon’s greatest risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” every 300 years or so causing major earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January of this year marks the 315th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake. The State of Oregon predicts thousands of deaths and injuries plus approximately $32 billion in infrastructure and economic damages in Oregon alone. Utility restoration may take years to fully restore service. State and local economies will be decimated. LEGISLATIVE BACKGROUND Last month, the Committee passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. That bill includes a provision that DeFazio sponsored to encourage states to use their hazard mitigation funding in support of building a capability for an earthquake early warning system. FEMA needs to do its part to make sure states are aware that mitigation funds may be used for this purpose. Earlier this year, the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure held a hearing on earthquake hazard preparedness, response, recovery and mitigation with a focus on the Pacific Northwest. At the request of DeFazio, Dr. Scott Ashford, Dean of the College of Engineering at Oregon State University, testified at the hearing. Dr. Ashford indicated in his testimony that a magnitude 9.0 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would shut down all of U.S. Highway 101, all access routes from the Willamette Valley or Portland metro area to the coast, and only leave parts of Interstate 5 open. The State developed the Oregon Resilience Plan, which Dr. Ashford worked on and discussed in the hearing. The Oregon Resilience Plan was a comprehensive look at the state’s risk from a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami. This included examining the State’s infrastructure and making recommendations to make Oregon more resilient when the next big one strikes. Much more work is needed in Oregon but other States should be encouraged to follow Oregon’s lead and examine the risk, the potential damage, and develop and implement plans to address the issue. Another way to save lives, reduce injuries, and minimize infrastructure damage is to invest in an earthquake early warning system. --30--
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON—Today, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Peter Welch (D-VT), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), and Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH) condemned the industry-driven Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act, legislation that would overturn state laws requiring labeling of foods containing genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and deny consumers the right to know what is in the food they consume. Although 90 percent of Americans support the labeling of food containing GMOs, there is no federal policy in place to label such foods. Three states—Vermont, Maine and Connecticut—have passed laws requiring GMO labeling, and over 30 states have considered similar legislation. The bill would preempt states’ laws on GMO labeling and codify the current broken system of voluntary labeling. In addition, the bill would create even more confusion in the marketplace by requiring the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to allow misleading ‘natural’ claims on food products containing GMOs. Sixty-four countries around the world already require the labeling of GE foods, including all the member nations of the European Union, Russia, Japan, China, Australia and New Zealand. In February, Representative DeFazio introduced H.R. 913, the Genetically Engineered Food Right to Know Act. The legislation would require FDA to set a mandatory labeling system for foods that contain GMOs. In addition, any product that contains GMOs would be prohibited from using the label ‘natural’ on its packaging. “H.R. 1599 is a full-scale attack on consumer’s rights,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Americans deserve the opportunity to make informed decisions about the food they eat and what they feed their families—an opportunity that China, Russia, and Kazakhstan allow their citizens, but not the United States. A truly free market would allow such information to be disclosed to consumers, and yet here we are making it more difficult and confusing for consumers.” “Consumers have a right to know what’s in the food they eat, especially for parents feeding their young children,” said Rep. Lowey. “Scientists don’t know the impact genetically engineered (GE) foods may have on child development, but studies have raised serious concern about the levels of allergens and chemicals involved in manufacturing GE foods and their impact on public health. That’s why I offered an amendment that would allow states with GE labeling regulations to continue to label infant formula and foods intended for children under the age of two. Sadly, my amendment was refused. For the sake of our children’s health, I call on Congress to oppose H.R. 1599 and put the information in the hands of the consumers.” “American families deserve to know what they are eating and feeding to their children,” said Rep. DeLauro. “The FDA already requires clear labeling of over 3,000 ingredients, additives and food processes. GMOs should be no different. My home state of Connecticut has already passed GMO labeling standards, which are designed to help families make informed decisions about the food they eat. We cannot reverse all the gains we have made. Consumers have a right to know.” “Americans have a right to know what is in their food and how it is grown,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “H.R. 1599 is an egregious federal overreach that would undo important state and local efforts to inform consumers. Instead of undermining this progress, Congress should require mandatory GMO labeling at the federal level and pass the Genetically Engineered Food Right to Know Act.” “The issue with this legislation is not whether GMOs are safe. The issue is whether consumers have a right to know what’s in the food they are feeding their families,” Rep. Welch said. “If Monsanto is so proud of its product, then why on earth is it waging an all-out war to hide it from families who simply want to know what’s in their food? The message to consumers in this bill is very clear: It’s none of your business.” "The DARK Act is just what Big Food and Monsanto want," Rep. Pingree said. "But nine out of ten consumers say they support GMO labeling, so it sure isn't what the public wants. This is really an anti-consumer, anti-right-to-know bill that would prevent families from making intelligent choices about whether or not they want to buy food with GMO ingredients. It takes choices away from consumers and rights away from states and Congress should reject it." “Almost 90% of the American people want to know what's in their food,” said Rep. Gabbard.“The DARK Act would roll back steps taken by a majority of states and counties, including communities in Hawai'i, to better inform people about the ingredients in the food they eat. This bill takes away a basic consumer right for people to know what's in their food, and undermines local control. This bill is bad for transparency, consumer rights, and democracy, and should be defeated." “In New Hampshire and across the country, Americans are speaking up and demanding greater transparency about how their food is made and grown. I am a firm believer that Granite Staters deserve the information necessary to make informed decisions about the food they feed their families,” said Rep. Kuster. “Unfortunately, the DARK Act will preempt existing state laws regarding GMO labeling and limit consumer transparency of food ingredients. I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill when it comes to the floor.”
07.09.2015	In a bill that passed the House of Representatives today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) secured a number of critical provisions that will improve forest health, create jobs in rural communities, and provide needed resources to fight catastrophic wildfires. DeFazio worked closely with Reps. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) to make significant improvements to the comprehensive forest policy legislation, the Resilient Federal Forests Act. “This bill isn’t perfect, however there are too many urgent problems facing our forests and rural communities to do nothing,” said Congressman DeFazio. “This bill addresses some of those critical issues—including wildfires, diminishing financial resources for land management, and rising unemployment. Congress must do something to change the status quo for our forests and rural communities, and so we must work together to find common ground.” Last year, wildfire costs approached $500 million in Oregon and Washington alone. In 2013, wildfires burned over 800,000 acres in the Pacific Northwest. DeFazio pushed for language in the bill that would require the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to create additional resource management plans for the O&C lands. Earlier this year the BLM provided several inadequate plans to the public for review. In addition, DeFazio’s provision would require the BLM to extend the public comment period on the new and existing plans by another 180 days, allowing more time for review and public discussion. DeFazio also fought for a provision that would treat catastrophic forest fires as natural disasters, like earthquakes or tornadoes, ending a cycle of fire-borrowing that has hindered fire-suppression efforts. This would provide additional, much-needed funding to prevent and fight wildfires in the Pacific Northwest. Last year, Congressman DeFazio led efforts in the House to fix wildfire funding issues. “I have been working to find a balanced approach to national forest policy for nearly 30 years,” said Congressman DeFazio. “I believe that having a healthy timber industry, good-paying jobs for rural communities, and permanent protection for our nation’s most iconic resources—like old growth trees and pristine rivers— are not and should not be mutually exclusive.” The legislation now goes to the Senate for consideration. View Congressman DeFazio’s floor speech on the bill HERE.
07.09.2015	Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today secured unanimous passage of a bill through the House Natural Resources Committee that strengthens tribal authority and expands reservation land for three of Southwestern Oregon’s federally-recognized Indian tribes. “This is a major step toward long-overdue restoration for three of Oregon’s distinguished tribes,” said Rep. DeFazio. “My bill will promote job creation and economic growth for the Coos and Cow Creek Tribes and provide the same land management rights to the Coquille Tribe that every other federally-recognized tribe in the United States already enjoys. The unanimous passage of my bill through the Natural Resources Committee is a tremendous first step. I am grateful to Chairman Bishop and hopeful that we can get H.R. 2791 out of the full House and over to the Senate in the very near future.” The bill, the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act (H.R. 2791) secures 17,519 acres of reservation land for the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe Indians and 14,408 acres of reservation land for the Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians, while also restoring the Coquille Indian Tribe’s sovereignty over the Coquille Forest. Since 1998, management of the Coquille Forest has been tied to the management of neighboring BLM lands under the Northwest Forest Plan. In addition to following strict federal laws and regulations governing Indian forest lands, the Coquille must also abide by the Northwest Forest Plan. No other Native American tribe in the United States is required to manage tribal lands in such a manner. "This legislation is critical to sustain the Coquille Tribe's environmentally responsible forest management, which produces jobs and supplies vital logs to Oregon's struggling mills,” said Coquille Indian Tribe Chairperson Brenda Meade. “We applaud Congressman DeFazio for his tireless work to help Oregon with this legislation." "We are thrilled by the Committee's action," said Chairman Mark Ingersoll of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians. "We appreciate the hard work that Representatives DeFazio and Walden have put toward making jobs and justice a reality by passing HR 2791." “The Cow Creek Band of the Umpqua Tribe of Indian applauds the House Natural Resources Committee for moving the Western Oregon Tribal Fairness Act,” said Cow Creek Chairman Dan Courtney. “This bill restores our tribe's dream of self-sufficiency, regional development and environmental stewardship on our ancestral homeland. We are deeply appreciative of Rep. DeFazio and Rep. Walden’s leadership. Today, from every Cow Creek member, we say Tuuwuù’kʰ - (It is good).” The bill’s next step is consideration by the full House of Representatives.
06.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Seeking to protect a celebrated collection of world-class salmon and steelhead rivers, U.S. Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Jared Huffman (CA-2), as well as Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR), applauded the temporary ban on new mining projects in an area covered by a bill the Congressmen and Senators introduced, the Southwest Oregon Watershed and Salmon Protection Act. The temporary segregation measure will preserve the status quo and protect the public’s interest. “A month ago I stood on a rocky ledge high above Rough and Ready Creek’s great sweeping bends talking to local residents about the need to protect this beautiful and wild space,” said Congressman DeFazio. “The withdrawal of any new mining claims in this area will protect biologically unique natural spaces in my district, as well as support Oregon’s salmon population and safeguard safe drinking water sources for thousands of families in the area.” "Protecting Northern California's spectacular wild and scenic Smith River, the key source of drinking water for many communities and a stronghold for salmon and steelhead, is the only responsible thing to do”, said Congressman Huffman. “Keeping new mining activities out of the Smith and its tributaries has been an important priority for me, and I have been glad to have such a partner in my friend Peter DeFazio of Oregon, whose district shares the watershed. I am also pleased that the administration is acting on our recommendation to prohibit potentially hazardous mining in this sensitive watershed." “I am pleased the Bureau of Land Management has agreed to our request to put the mineral withdrawal into the Federal Register,’’ Senator Wyden said. “That decision ensures there will be a robust process for public input that provides the best path forward to a goal all Oregonians share – ensuring that our state’s remarkable rivers retain their critical role in salmon protection.” “Protecting Oregon’s most endangered rivers and preserving our treasured natural areas are important to the health of both our environment and our recreation economy,” said Senator Merkley. “The action by the BLM gets us a step closer to protecting some of the most ecologically sensitive rivers in Oregon from destructive mining practices. Now it’s time for Congress to step up and pass the legislation needed to make this protection permanent.” The Southwestern Oregon Watershed and Salmon Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 682 in the House of Representatives and S. 346 in the Senate) would help protect pristine and unique natural areas in Southwestern Oregon from new mining claims. The areas protected include the watershed of the National Wild and Scenic North Fork Smith River in Oregon, the watershed of Rough and Ready Creek (an eligible Wild and Scenic River and tributary to the National Wild and Scenic Illinois and Rogue rivers), as well as 17 miles of the National Wild and Scenic Chetco River. These rivers are known for their wild salmon and steelhead populations, and provide vital economic, recreational and natural resources to the area. Also protected from mining would be the headwaters of Hunter Creek and the Pistol River—two prized native salmon and steelhead rivers that flow directly into the Pacific Ocean along the spectacular Wild Rivers Coast of Southern Oregon and Northern California. The legislation introduced by Wyden, Merkley, DeFazio and Huffman would prohibit new mining claims in the three areas and will require current claims to meet a rigorous validation process before mining is allowed to proceed. Both the legislation and the proposed temporary ban on new mining claims are subject to “valid existing rights,” protecting mining claims that are already in place. # # #
06.19.2015	EUGENE, OR – On Friday, Congressman Peter DeFazio celebrated the 25th anniversary of the designation of the Newberry Volcano as a National Volcanic Monument and recalled his efforts to secure the historic designation. The monument, located in Deschutes National Forest, includes more than 56,000 acres of natural wonders. The volcano is the largest in the Cascades volcanic arc. The designation was created by President George H.W. Bush in November of 1990. Congressman DeFazio, then in his second term in Congress, was instrumental in shepherding the legislation that secured the designation through Congress. Working with both Democrats and Republicans, Congressman DeFazio fought to include significant environmental protections for the site in the bill. He served as a key intermediate between local advocates and the House Committee on Natural Resources, negotiating key exemptions for local interests. And it was Congressman DeFazio’s efforts that ensured the legislation got full consideration by the House Committee on Natural Resources, which led to its swift passage. “As stewards of some of the most beautiful natural scenery in the country, Oregonians have a profound responsibility to protect our lands for future generations,” said Congressman DeFazio. “Working to preserve our public lands and natural landscapes is one of my highest honors as an elected official. I’m proud to have fought to designate the Newberry Volcano as a monument, so that its unique majesty can be enjoyed for decades to come.” ###
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today was pleased by the defeat of a trade package that would allow President Obama to push through the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a sweeping trade agreement that would cost the American economy thousands of middle-class jobs and undermine U.S. laws protecting consumer rights and the environment. “This is a victory for economic fairness, transparency, and American workers,” said DeFazio. “We now have an opportunity to improve this package to protect American workers, manufacturing, consumer rights and the environment. The Trade Adjustment Assistance bill robbed Peter to pay Paul, cutting Medicare to provide meager retraining assistance to workers who will lose their jobs as a result of this bad trade deal. Fast track would have relegated Congress to be used as a doormat, allowing no debate or amendments to the massive TPP agreement, a trade deal that repeats the same failed trade policies of the last 20 years. TPP has been negotiated in secret and will export jobs, drive down U.S. wages, and undermine U.S. sovereignty, giving multinational corporations the means to overturn U.S. laws protecting consumers and the environment.” The Fast-Track legislation would have allowed the TPP trade deal to go through Congress without any amendments, limited debate, and an up or down vote from Members of Congress. The agreement, which was negotiated in secret by government bureaucrats and corporate lobbyists, would have accounted for 40 percent of the world’s trade. Part of the package, the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), was billed as a measure to aid workers who would lose their jobs due to the trade agreement. However, the TAA was paid for using cuts to Medicare, robbing our nation’s seniors of vital healthcare resources. Also on Friday, the House passed a customs bill that stripped out many of the protections included in the Senate fast track bill, including provisions enforcing currency manipulation and combatting human trafficking. The customs bill also shamefully included a new provision prohibiting any enforceable climate change protections. Throughout his tenure in Congress, Congressman DeFazio has tirelessly fought against unjust trade policies that put our consumer safety, environmental quality, and manufacturing jobs at risk. He has repeatedly pushed back against failed policies that have endangered Americans in the name of so called “free” trade, including efforts to allow unsafe Mexican trucks to travel on American roads, as well as a repeal of country of origin labeling on meat products in the USA. ###
06.10.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement on H.R. 2393, the Country of Labeling Origin Amendments Act: “Today’s vote to repeal country of origin labeling is a vote to undercut the American people’s right to know where their food comes from. Ninety percent of Americans support country of origin labeling for meat products, yet proponents of H.R. 2393 are more concerned with appeasing foreign corporate special interests than with keeping American consumers safe. What’s worse, this is only a harbinger of things to come if the President’s trade bill passes. Should the TPP trade deal be made law, dozens of consumer protections will be rolled back in order to fulfill foreign corporations’ interests instead of the health and safety of the American public.” Congressman DeFazio previously spoke out against H.R. 2393 in May.
06.09.2015	Washington, DC - Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement on H.R. 2289, the Commodity End-User Relieft Act: “I stand in strong opposition to H.R. 2289, the so-called “Commodity End User Relief Act.” While it is critical that Congress reauthorizes the Commodity Exchange Act, passing a restrictive and onerous act that weakens the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) is not the solution. In its current state, the Commodity Exchange Act keeps American families' financial futures safe from irresponsible behavior by Wall Street speculators and hedge fund managers. H.R. 2289 rolls back key provisions of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and would allow the same reckless behaviors that brought about the 2008 financial collapse. Undermining these protections is dangerous for American families and the American economy alike, and we must find another way forward.”
05.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Oregon Congressional delegation including Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Congressmen Peter DeFazio, Greg Walden, Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici announced that the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) has taken the postal processing centers in Bend and Eugene off of the closure list and that they will remain open for the foreseeable future. This news comes after the Oregon delegation members have been repeatedly calling on the USPS to keep the Bend and Eugene processing centers open to maintain mail delivery standards and save jobs. News of the USPS changed plan comes after months of urging by the delegation as well as a recent meeting the Oregon Congressional delegation held with Deputy Postmaster General Ronald Stroman, where the delegation called on the Postal Service to keep Oregon’s remaining mail processing facilities open in light of the delayed mail delivery times. “Keeping the mail processing centers in Bend and Eugene open is the only decision that makes any sense,” said Merkley. “Today’s decision is a step in the right direction, but this isn’t a final victory and I’m committed to working with my colleagues to make sure that these centers permanently come off of the closure list. Mail sent from Bend to Bend should obviously not be shipped to Portland to be processed. We have to make sure that we don’t continue to degrade our mail delivery standard and put people out of work.” “The processing centers in Bend and Eugene are crucial to keeping open traditional and vital communication routes in rural Oregon,” Wyden said. “I’m glad the USPS has decided to postpone the closing of these centers, and it is my hope that when the Postal Service revisits this issue next year, it will decide to keep these centers open indefinitely.” “This is a promising step in the right direction,” said DeFazio. “I’m hopeful the new Postmaster General, after reviewing the problematic network consolidation plan, will come to the same conclusion that I and many others have reached. Closing the Springfield facility would be extremely detrimental to Oregon businesses, families and seniors. Small businesses distribute their goods and order supplies, seniors get their medications delivered, weekly newspapers are distributed by mail. I hope the new Postmaster General does not repeat the same mistakes as her predecessor.” “This is good news that the U.S. Postal Service will delay closing additional sorting facilities, including one in Bend,” said Walden. “Timely and reliable delivery of mail—whether for business, ballots, or medication—is essential for rural Oregonians. This is the right decision for both the Postal Service and its customers until questions have been answered as to how the closing of these sorting facilities will affect mail delivery.” “The Postal Service’s decision to not close facilities in Bend and Eugene is welcome news,” said Blumenauer. “As these facilities remain open, we can turn our attention to modernizing and improving the viability of the Postal Service, without resorting to arbitrary closures that threaten family wage jobs or delivery standards.” “Although many Oregonians are still facing increased delivery times due to the closure of the Salem Processing Facility, I am encouraged today that the Eugene and Bend facilities are shielded from closure for the time being, as their shuttering would have devastated mail delivery in many of our rural communities,” said Schrader. “However, USPS still has work to do to find a permanent solution to this problem and restore service standards in our state.” Last Friday, the USPS released an update on “network consolidation” which postponed the closure date of the Bend and Eugene plants to a time “to be determined.” Nearly half of the nation’s USPS mail processing and distribution centers were closed in 2012 – 2013 and another 30 closed in April of this year. The Salem plant closed in May, 2013 and the Pendleton plant closed this April. Approximately 50 more plants were set to close in July, including Eugene, and almost all are now on hold. ###
05.20.2015	Washington, DC—Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) today, reintroduced the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, H.R. 2462, which repeals the antiquated exemption that allows the health insurance industry to operate beyond the reach of federal antitrust laws. “It is preposterous that this anti-free market exemption is still on the books,” DeFazio said. “With this exemption, health insurance companies can, and do, collude to drive up prices, limit competition, conspire to underpay doctors and hospitals, and price gouge consumers. I continue to hear from my constituents about high insurance premiums. Our bill would protect consumers and make sure the health insurance industry plays by the same rules as virtually every other industry.” “We worked very hard when writing the Affordable Care Act to contain the out-of-control growth of healthcare costs,” said Congresswoman Slaughter. “We have been making progress on that front, slowing the growth in healthcare costs to its lowest rate in 50 years. One reason we haven’t been able to do more is that health insurance companies are exempt from anti-trust regulation, meaning that they can collude to drive up prices and limit competition. This is the primary reason so many of my constituents are still seeing their rates go up, sometimes at exorbitant speeds. These Fortune 500 corporations and their well-paid CEO’s don’t need or deserve special treatment. There is no reason the health insurance industry should be exempt from the law." Background: The McCarran-Ferguson Act, passed in 1945, exempts the business of insurance from the federal antitrust laws to limit competition. The only other industry exempt from antitrust laws is Major League Baseball. If there ever was, there is no longer any justification to exempt the insurance industry from federal government oversight. The Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act would repeal the exemption and give the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission the authority to apply the antitrust laws to anticompetitive behavior by insurance companies. This Act would not affect the ability of each state to regulate the business of insurance. Similar legislation passed the House of Representatives in 2010 with overwhelming bipartisan support in a vote of 406-19. ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Oregon’s Senator Jeff Merkley, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Senator Ron Wyden, Representative Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-04) introduced the Columbia River Basin Restoration Act. The legislation would authorize $50 million over five years for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a voluntary, competitive Columbia Basin grants program for projects that assist in eliminating or reducing pollution, cleaning up contaminated sites, improving water quality, monitoring the basin, and promoting citizen engagement. Toxins are present throughout the Columbia Basin, and are harmful to humans, fish, and wildlife. These contaminants make their way into fish tissue and can be dangerous to humans if consumed. Some of these toxins are known to cause cancer and have been linked with neurological, developmental, and reproductive problems, including birth defects and learning disabilities. “The Columbia River is an Oregon icon that is central to both our environment and our economy,” said Merkley. “A clean Columbia River is essential for the health of our communities and for the strength of our fishing and recreation industries. Congress should step up and help protect this Oregon gem.” “The Columbia River is the lifeblood of the Pacific Northwest, providing energy, food, jobs and recreation, but it’s become dangerously polluted,” said Representative Blumenauer. “We must do all that we can to protect and restore this majestic river. I look forward to working with Senator Merkley and other members of the Northwest delegation to advance this legislation to address an issue critical to Oregon and the Pacific Northwest.” “The Columbia River has served the people of the Pacific Northwest for eons as a source of food, energy, and a major highway for commerce,” Wyden said. “Dedicating funds to cleaning up the river is critical to ensuring that it is protected from pollution that harms the people and ecosystem that depend on it. It is past time to provide this support for the Columbia River Basin, and I’m proud to introduce this bill that will improve water quality and protect the river for future Oregonians.” “The Columbia River is a powerful economic force in Oregon. It helps carry goods to market, serves as a valuable source of energy, and provides food to tribal populations and others,” Congresswoman Bonamici said. “We must reduce pollution and contamination of this critical resource. I am pleased to support the Columbia River Basin Restoration Act, which includes grants for projects that help preserve and protect the waterway.” “The Columbia River is one of the most bountiful natural resources in Oregon, providing cultural, economic, and ecological benefits to many states,” said Representative DeFazio. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing a bill that will put significant federal investment behind meaningful restoration projects to improve water quality and reduce pollution of the Columbia River. Rising levels of toxins in the Columbia River Basin threaten Oregon’s salmon and the livelihood of tribal communities and other Oregonians.” The Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest, and the only large aquatic ecosystem in the United States that currently receives no dedicated funding to clean up and monitor toxic chemicals. It is 1,243 miles long and its drainage basin extends into seven states. Approximately 8 million people inhabit the Basin, including members of several Tribal nations and angling groups who frequently fish in its waters. Historically, the Columbia and its tributaries have constituted the largest salmon-producing river system in the world, with annual returns peaking at 16 million fish. This bill is supported by a diverse group of stakeholders including the Lower Columbia Estuary Partnership, Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission, Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, and Salmon-Safe. ###
05.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today criticized H.R. 2393, legislation to repeal mandatory country of origin labeling requirements for meat products as a disturbing measure that undermines the rights and health of the American people. The bill was introduced as a response to a ruling from the World Trade Organization that the labeling requirement constitutes an unfair barrier to trade for meat producers in Canada and Mexico. DeFazio pointed to the decision as a harbinger of the destructive policies in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal currently being negotiated by the Obama administration. In fact, the TPP gives countries and multinational corporations stronger rights than those granted by the WTO to challenge U.S. environmental, safety and consumer laws. “Just two weeks ago, President Obama was in Oregon and promised that no trade agreement would require the U.S. to change our laws,” said DeFazio. “He even said that critics like myself who disagree with him, were just ‘making stuff up.’ But yesterday the WTO declared that our pro-consumer Country of Origin Labeling requirement is a barrier to trade. And today Congress is preparing to overturn an important consumer law. This isn’t make-believe. It’s real and it’s disturbing.” DeFazio, top Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee also pointed to U.S. safety laws that were set aside in January, pursuant to North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to allow Mexican trucks to have access to U.S. highways without evidence that these trucks are safe. “I fought for years to prevent dangerous Mexican trucks from barreling down U.S. highways,” continued DeFazio. “I successfully delayed access but the Mexicans threatened punitive tariffs on products targeting my home state of Oregon and the home states of other opponents in order to send the message that if the U.S. didn’t play by their rules there would be consequences. Dangerous Mexican trucks were granted access to our roads in January, threatening the safety of Americans daily. It’s time for this administration to admit that U.S. trade policies undermine our domestic regulations and fight to protect the American people, rather than continue to allow other countries and corporate interests to run roughshod over our laws.” Rep. DeFazio plans to vote against H.R. 2393 and Fast Track trading authority for the Obama administration when the bills come to the floor. ###
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), together with 19 Committee Democrats, introduced H.R. 2410, the Administration’s GROW AMERICA Act, a long-term surface transportation reauthorization bill that provides robust funding and sustainable solutions to our Nation’s infrastructure crisis. Democrats offered the six-year, $478 billion bill as a framework, to provide Congress with robust investment targets. “Congress cannot continue to ignore the serious need for a long-term surface transportation reauthorization and continue to devolve Federal responsibility by default. This afternoon, I offered the Administration’s GROW AMERICA Act by request with 19 Democratic colleagues from the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Although I don’t support every provision of the bill, the legislation gets two critical issues right – the long-term length of the reauthorization and the level of investment. We can’t sit around and wait for the Ways and Means Committee to dictate how much money they will designate. We need to tell them how much investment America needs to fix our crumbling roads, bridges, and public transit systems. Congress needs to figure out how to fund it, which is why I asked for a joint hearing between the Ways and Means and the Transportation and Infrastructure Committees the week Members return. No more lip-service, no more promises, no more delays. If Congress has two months to figure out a long-term solution, every day counts and we need to begin work today,” said DeFazio. “Without a long-term transportation bill that provides predictable investments for our nation’s roads bridges, highways, and transit systems, we are slamming the brakes on the economy and jobs,” said Highways and Transit Subcommittee Ranking Member Eleanor Holmes Norton. “Short-term transportation bills continue to prevent billions of dollars in investments, not only for our transportation and infrastructure, but for other economic development projects that depend on roads, bridges, and transit. Standing with Ranking Member DeFazio and other Democrats in introducing the GROW AMERICA Act, we are putting on the table a bill that should start negotiations with our Republican friends for a six-year bill right now.” Nineteen Democrats co-sponsored the measure, including Ranking Member Norton, Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Donna Edwards (D-MD), John Garamendi (D-CA), Andre Carson (D-IN), Richard Nolan (D-MN), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Dina Titus (D-NV), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Lois Frankel (D-FL), and Julia Brownley (D-CA). The GROW AMERICA Act provides a total of $478 billion over six years, a 45 percent increase for highways, bridges, public transportation, highway safety, and rail programs. Over six years, the GROW AMERICA Act makes significant investments in: Highways – provides $317 billion for programs under the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), an increase of 29 percent over current levels. Freight – dedicates $18 billion of highway funds for a new dedicated multi-modal freight program. Transit – provides $115 billion for programs under the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), an increase of 76 percent over current levels, and significantly boosts New Starts funding. Rail – provides $28.6 billion for programs under the Federal Rail Administration (FRA). Safety – provides $6 billion for vehicle safety programs under the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), $4.7 billion for truck and bus safety programs under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and $16 billion for the Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP). Competitive Grants – provides $7.5 billion for TIGER grants and $6 billion for TIFIA that could support $60 billion in loans. Research and Innovation – provides $3.4 billion to leverage research and innovation to move people and goods more safely and efficiently, while minimizing impacts on the environment. To see video of DeFazio’s floor statement, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y4KMnNIFnQM --30--
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Today, in a hearing in the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) criticized Congress for decades of neglect when it comes to preparing for catastrophic earthquakes. The United States Geological Service (USGS) estimates that 75 million Americans live in areas of significant seismic risk across 42 states. Oregon is one of those states, and is at risk from several different types of earthquakes. “A catastrophic earthquake is not hypothetical. It is a not a question of if an earthquake will happen. It is a question of when. That’s why this Nation needs to start taking this threat seriously and begin to prepare for a major earthquake and tsunami event. Congress needs to stop operating under a tombstone mentality - only taking action after people lose their lives - and immediately begin considering serious, thoughtful, and robust actions that could literally save tens of thousands of lives, countless injuries, and billions of dollars of damage when a catastrophic earthquake hits,” said DeFazio. Oregon’s greatest risk is from the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, which stretches from northern California up into British Columbia, is the mirror image of the subduction zone off the coast of Japan that caused the magnitude nine earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011. Historically, the Cascadia subduction zone “slips” every 300 years or so causing major earthquakes. The last quake was in 1700 and evidence suggests it was a magnitude 8.7 to a 9.2. January of this year marks the 315th anniversary of the last major Cascadia earthquake. A Cascadia earthquake will likely be catastrophic with the potential of triggering a tsunami. The USGS estimates that over 22,000 people live in Oregon’s tsunami inundation zone and even more enter the zone daily for employment purposes. The next big Cascadia quake will likely cause massive damage. At the request of DeFazio, Dr. Scott Ashford, Dean of the College of Engineering at Oregon State University, testified at the hearing. Dr. Ashford indicated in his testimony that a magnitude 9.0 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would shut down all of U.S. Highway 101, all access routes from the Willamette Valley or Portland metro area to the coast, and only leave parts of Interstate 5 open. DeFazio urged his colleagues to start investing in the Nation’s infrastructure – including a West Coast early warning detection system – to ensure it can withstand seismic activity, minimize potential damages and economic disruption, and provide as much warning as possible to impacted communities. An early warning system could provide metro centers such as Portland and Seattle with three to five minutes of warning, providing critical time for hospitals, schools, manufacturers, and transportation and energy system operators, and first responders. To watch DeFazio’s opening statement and questions, click here: https://bit.ly/1dhM9At To read DeFazio’s full written statement, click here: https://1.usa.gov/1cN5ZTe BACKGROUND Last month, the Committee passed H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015. That bill includes a provision that DeFazio sponsored to encourage states to use their hazard mitigation funding in support of building a capability for an earthquake early warning system. FEMA needs to do its part to make sure states are aware that mitigation funds may be used for this purpose. Luckily, Oregonians takes the earthquake hazard seriously. The State developed the Oregon Resilience Plan, which witness Dr. Scott Ashford from Oregon State University worked on and discussed in today’s hearing. The Oregon Resilience Plan was a comprehensive look at the state’s risk from a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami. This included examining the State’s infrastructure and making recommendations to make Oregon more resilient when the next big one strikes. Much more work is needed in Oregon but other States should be encouraged to follow Oregon’s lead and examine the risk, the potential damage and develop and implement plans to address the issue. Another way to save lives, reduce injuries, and minimize infrastructure damage is to invest in an earthquake early warning system. An early warning system can send alerts to trigger automatic shutdowns of trains, manufacturing lines, close bridges, and evacuate students from unsafe schools. It can help reduce the long-term economic losses that are often excluded from damage estimates. An earthquake early warning system worked during the 2011 Japan earthquake and it can work here. --30--
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – In a joint letter today to Postmaster General Megan J. Brennan, Oregon’s congressional delegation expressed serious reservations about proposals to close mail processing centers in Bend and Eugene. “Oregon has already lost mail processing plants in Salem, Klamath Falls, and Pendleton, with two more locations in Eugene and Bend set to be consolidated this year. If these mail processing plants close, mail will have to flow through either Portland or Medford, even when their destination is in the same town it originated in,” said the letter, which was signed by U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley as well as by Reps. Suzanne Bonamici, Greg Walden, Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, and Kurt Schrader. “This causes delays in mail delivery, increases the amount of mail the Portland location must process, and forces mail carriers to cover larger distances and work longer hours. These plant closures not only put stress on the existing processing locations but also put rural jobs at risk,” the letter said. The letter was written in response to a meeting on May 13 in which six members of Oregon’s congressional delegation – Sens. Wyden and Merkley and Reps. Bonamici, Blumenauer, DeFazio and Schrader – met with Deputy Postmaster General Ronald Stroman to discuss the latest plans for reducing the Postal Service’s chronic budget deficit and specifically to learn what the impact will be in Oregon. “The proposal offered by the Postal Service is troubling in several ways,” Sen. Wyden said. “It would be felt across our state and Oregonians would endure these closures through degraded service and force them to wait longer for the delivery of crucial items ranging from mail-order prescriptions to Social Security checks. It will affect small businesses and Oregon’s vote-by-mail system. There is too much at stake and the Postal Service must consider other means of controlling costs.” “Oregonians not only rely on the postal service for jobs, connectivity, and prescription drugs, but for the mail-in ballot and voting,” Rep. Blumenauer said. “The Postal Service should reconsider closing the Eugene and Bend facilities and work with myself and my colleagues to strengthen and improve their long-term viability without resorting to damaging a critical piece of our state and national infrastructure.” “Mail delivery is a critical service, especially for Oregonians living in rural areas in my district,” Rep. DeFazio said. “Small businesses distribute their goods and order supplies, seniors get their medications delivered, weekly newspapers are distributed by mail. Closing more processing centers will have huge and devastating impact on Oregon communities, significantly delaying mail delivery. I hope the new Postmaster General will overturn these shortsighted decisions to close facilities and find more innovative ways to save money and increase efficiency.” “Oregonians are already paying too high a price for USPS’s consolidation plans with longer delivery times already being felt in the Mid-Willamette Valley following the closure of the Salem Processing Facility,” Rep. Schrader said. “Closing the Bend and Eugene mail processing facilities would be devastating to already deteriorating service standards in our rural communities and would put too much stress on the two remaining processing plants. My colleagues and I need answers before any further plant consolidation should proceed.” As noted in the letter, without mail processing plants in Eugene, Bend or Pendleton, mail will have to flow through the city of Portland causing delivery delays, increases the amount of mail the Portland location must process and force mail carriers to cover larger distances and work longer hours. The closures would also put additional stress on the Portland facility and on others the rest of the state and the negative effect hit especially hard in rural areas. The letter also asked USPS to outline “the comparative impact to the reduction in mail processing and thereby service standards in Oregon” compared to the effect that could be faced by other states. The letter requested as well that USPS clearly and thoroughly explain the steps it has taken to constrain costs and what innovations it has used – or is considering – to raise additional revenue. A full copy of the letter can be found here. ###
05.18.2015	Washington, D.C. –. Today, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) applauded the House passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015, legislation that would keep the Newport air facility open indefinitely. Due to budget cuts, the Coast Guard threatened in 2014 to close the Newport air facility-- which handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast. Last year, the Oregon congressional delegation was successful in passing a one year prohibition on closing the Newport facility and this legislation makes that prohibition permanent. “It is impossible to understate how critical having helicopters nearby is to Oregon’s fishing industry, coastal visitors and residents. Today’s legislation would keep this critical air station—which handles half the emergency calls on the Central Oregon Coast—open indefinitely. We hope the Senate takes up this legislation as soon as possible,” said Congressman DeFazio. “This is a true victory for the Newport and Coos Bay communities. With the passage of this bill, we are now able to give our coastal community more certainty about the future of their search and rescue capabilities,” said Congressman Schrader. “I appreciate Congressman DeFazio’s efforts to get this bill through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and I’m hopeful my colleagues in the Senate will take up and pass this legislation to ensure the continued safety of our commercial fishermen, recreational tourists and community members.” The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015 (H.R. 1987) authorizes Coast Guard and Federal Maritime Commission funding levels for two years, and includes provisions to improve Coast Guard mission effectiveness, help modernize the Service’s aging vessels and other assets, and reform U.S. maritime transportation laws. The bill was introduced by Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA), along with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Ranking Member John Garamendi (D-CA). Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy. DeFazio and the Oregon delegation successfully passed legislation last year that delayed the closure and keeps the U.S. Coast Guard’s air facility at Newport open through January 2016. However, additional Congressional action was necessary to keep an air facility in Newport in 2016 and beyond. --30--
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Michael Capuano (D-MA) issued the following statement in response to the horrific Pennsylvania Amtrak train derailment. “Our thoughts are with the loved ones of the victims and all those injured in the terrible train crash last night. We don’t yet know the cause of the Amtrak train derailment which tragically took the lives of at least six people, and we need to let the NTSB conduct a thorough investigation into the cause of the accident. However, we need to get serious about our transportation infrastructure. Today, the House Committee on Appropriations is marking up a bill that will cut Amtrak capital grants by $290 million compared to the FY2015 appropriations level. The Subcommittee bill provides Amtrak with a little over $1.1 billion, far from the $2 billion requested by Amtrak and the $2.5 billion requested in the President’s budget. We agree with our Republican friends, we need to let the investigation take its course, but we absolutely do not need to make deeper cuts that will increase the $21 billion maintenance and repair backlog and further jeopardize the safety of the traveling public.” Video of DeFazio’s remarks at today’s rail hearing can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3SLH0gUGNYE&feature=youtu.be
05.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – A group of House and Senate lawmakers today asked the Interior Department to limit the unnecessary releases of natural gas from oil and gas wells on public lands in light of a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report finding that federal officials have not improved natural gas capture standards despite two previous reports urging reforms. In a letter sent today, Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Reps. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore., and Raúl M. Grijalva, D-Ariz., asked Interior Secretary Sally Jewell to implement GAO recommendations – some made as long as a decade ago – that would protect the environment and secure the full market value of oil and gas production on public lands for taxpayers. A 2010 GAO report found that 40 percent of the natural gas released into the atmosphere (“vented”) or burned at the wellhead (“flared”) during oil and gas production could be economically captured and sold at market value. The GAO found that capturing natural gas in oil and gas production on federal lands, instead of venting or flaring it off, would reduce carbon emissions equivalent to taking 3 million cars off U.S. roads and save American taxpayers $23 million every year. “At our request, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently completed a review of the Department’s efforts to update its regulations for oil and gas leases, and found that despite significant progress, additional work remains to protect the environment and ensure fair returns for taxpayers,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter. “We are particularly concerned with the lack of regulations to limit venting and flaring natural gas from Federal leases, which GAO first identified as a problem over ten years ago.” The report highlights the need for Congress to provide more resources for the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) inspection and enforcement program. Oil production on federal lands has increased 45 percent since 2008, and the agency isn’t getting the funding needed to keep up with the additional activity. In 2004, the GAO reported problems with the Interior Department’s reporting of natural gas extraction from wells, noting that the federal government had been underreporting the amount of natural gas that was being flared or vented. The agency found in 2010 that actual releases of natural gas in the U.S. were up to 30 times the amount reported for onshore wells and about 6 times more than what was reported for offshore wells. Methane is about 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide as a greenhouse gas. Wyden, DeFazio and Grijalva requested the report last year. Grijalva is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, Wyden is a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and DeFazio is the former top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee. The letter to the Interior Department is attached. Read the GAO report here. ###
05.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) will be in Eugene Monday, May 4, leading a rally to oppose fast track trade authority for President Obama and the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. Later he will lead a discussion with University of Oregon students about the student debt crisis. Event details follow: WHAT: Rally to Stop Fast Track WHEN: 12:00 Noon to 12:30 PM, Monday, May 4, 2015 WHERE: Wayne Morse Free Speech Plaza Ahead of President Obama’s visit to Oregon, DeFazio will headline a rally with American workers opposing Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) for the President, also known as “fast track.” TPA would give President Obama the authority to push through major trade deals with little to no input from Congress and no enforceable protections for American workers, consumers or the environment. When a free trade agreement is submitted under fast track procedures Congress must pass it within 90 days with an up or down vote, no amendments, and limited debate. It would not be subject to normal congressional committee review and markup. It would forbid all amendments and permit only 20 hours of debate. The Obama administration is asking Congress for fast track authority in order to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership and Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, some of the largest trade agreements in history. WHAT: Save Student Aid Event WHEN: 1:00-2:00 PM, Monday, May 4, 2015 WHERE: Many Nations Longhouse, University of Oregon Campus DeFazio will be joined by students and representatives of the UofO and LCC to discuss the growing student debt crisis in our country. Total debt as quadrupled in the last decade, recently surpassing $1.3 trillion. As college tuition continues to soar and family incomes barely budge, this number will only continue to increase. This is not sustainable and it is crushing young people’s ability to find a job, invest in a home, or contribute to the economy. More than half a million Oregonians of all ages are weighed down by student debt just because they wanted a better shot. ###
05.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today joined his colleagues to introduce legislation to raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 by 2020. The bill, introduced in both the House and Senate, would also gradually eliminate the subminimum tipped wage system and index the Federal minimum wage to keep pace with the rising median wage. “The federal minimum wage should be a living wage,” said DeFazio. “It’s unconscionable that millions of Americans work full-time and live below the poverty level. States like Oregon raised the minimum wage above the federal level and put to rest the fear that the increase would lead to job loss.” In 2007, Congress enacted a law phasing in an increase in the federal minimum wage to $7.25. Since the minimum wage reached $7.25 six years ago in 2009, the minimum wage has not kept pace with inflation or the growth in the median wage, resulting in low-wage workers continuing to fall behind. In fact, the real value of today’s minimum wage is less than it was in 1956. Under the Raise the Wage Act, the Federal minimum wage would start to rise almost immediately. Beginning January 2016 or three months after the date of enactment of the Raise the Wage Act, the federal minimum wage would increase by $0.75 to $8.00 per hour, followed by $1.00 per hour increases every year until it reaches $12.00. Starting in 2021, the Federal minimum wage would keep pace with rising wages overall through automatic annual increases to keep the ratio of the minimum wage constant with the median wage. ###
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. –. Today, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) pushed for committee passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015, legislation that would keep the Newport air facility open indefinitely. Due to budget cuts, the Coast Guard threatened in 2014 to close the Newport air facility-- which handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast. The legislation permanently extends the prohibition on closing the Newport facility. “It is impossible to understate how critical having helicopters nearby is to Oregon’s fishing industry, coastal visitors and residents. Last year, the Oregon Delegation was able to step in and we prevented an immediate closure of the Newport air facility. Today’s legislation would keep this critical air station—which handles half the emergency calls on the Central Oregon Coast—open indefinitely. Kurt and I will work hard to push this legislation through the process until it is signed by the President,” said DeFazio. “The stationing of a United States’ Coast Guard helicopter in Newport is essential to protecting the lives of our commercial fishermen, recreational tourists, and community along the Oregon coast. This legislation will maintain the current number of Coast Guard rescue helicopters in Coos Bay and Newport deployed for years to come. I am proud to partner with Congressman DeFazio to get this solution in place and provide our coastal community with certainty about the future of the search and rescue helicopters so critical public safety in the region,” said Schrader. The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015 (H.R. 1987) authorizes Coast Guard and Federal Maritime Commission funding levels for two years, and includes provisions to improve Coast Guard mission effectiveness, help modernize the Service’s aging vessels and other assets, and reform U.S. maritime transportation laws. The bill was introduced by Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA), along with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee Ranking Member John Garamendi (D-CA). Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy. DeFazio and the Oregon delegation successfully passed legislation last year that delayed the closure and keeps the U.S. Coast Guard’s air facility at Newport open through January 2016. However, additional Congressional action was necessary to keep an air facility in Newport in 2016 and beyond. To see video of Ranking Member DeFazio, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wydue__ID0I --30--
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today spoke out against a provision buried in trade promotion authority (TPA) legislation that could help a government or multinational corporation attack state or national laws that require the labeling of genetically engineered foods. TPA, also known as “fast track” would give President Obama the authority to push through major trade deals with little to no input from Congress. The Obama administration is asking Congress for fast track authority in order to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), a free trade agreement with the European Union. “Call it the smoking gun,” said DeFazio. “Proof that fast track and massive free trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership are written by and for multinational corporations such as agriculture giant Monsanto. Instead of using trade deals as an opportunity to protect and strengthen consumer rights by joining the countries which require genetically engineered food to be labeled, this administration wants to benefit wealthy corporations at the expense of the public.” The provision, included in Section 2, Trade Negotiating Objectives, requires that U.S. negotiators fight for rules in trade agreements that eliminate so-called “barriers” to markets such as the labeling of genetically engineered foods. Currently 64countries require genetically engineered food to be labeled including some of our largest trading partners like Japan, China, Brazil, and the countries of the European Union. Several consumer groups joined DeFazio in criticizing the fast track bill: “Consumers coast-to-coast are fighting for the right to know what is in the food they are feeding their families, but fast track would make it even harder to get commonsense food labels,” said Wenonah Hauter, executive director of Food & Water Watch. “This approach to trade could eliminate country of origin labeling and GMO labeling and weaken imported food inspection to satisfy the corporate interests who are writing these trade deals.” “At a time when Americans overwhelmingly want a right to know what they are buying and feeding their families, it is appalling that Congress would encourage stripping other countries of their right to label genetically engineered foods,” said Colin O’Neil, Director of Government Affairs at Center for Food Safety. “Each country has justifiably required the labeling of GE foods; the only thing that cannot be justified is why consumers in the US don’t have the same right to know as consumers in 64 other countries around the world.” When a free trade agreement is submitted under fast track procedures Congress must pass it within 90 days with an up or down vote, no amendments, and limited debate. It would not be subject to normal congressional committee review and markup. It would forbid all amendments and permit only 20 hours of debate. ###
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced a pair of bills that would protect Social Security trust funds from being diverted to pay for other programs and preserve Social Security benefits for future generations. The first bill, HR 1984, the Fair Adjustments and Income Revenues (FAIR) for Social Security Act, would ensure that the Social Security Trust Fund pays beneficiaries full benefits at least through the year 2057. Central to the bill is eliminating the cap that allows the wealthiest individuals to pay a significantly lower percentage of their income into the Social Security Trust Fund. “Right now, millionaires and billionaires stop paying into the Social Security fund once their income reaches $118,500. For the wealthiest Americans, that comes with their first paycheck of the year,” DeFazio said. “By closing this glaring loophole and asking every American to pay the same tax rate as the other 94 percent of workers, we can make sure the trust fund is stable for decades to come.” The FAIR Social Security Act also improves the cost-of-living adjustments to make sure the formula accurately reflects senior citizens actual buying habits, including items such as food, prescription medication and housing. With the new formula established in the bill, an average senior at the age of 80 would see about a $43 per month increase in benefits, while the average senior at age 90 would see about a $70 per month increase in benefits. The second bill, HR 1983, the Social Security Protection and Truth in Budgeting Act, protects Social Security trust funds from being used for non-Social Security purposes. It would separate Social Security trust funds from the federal budget so they could not be used as a budget gimmick to artificially lower the deficit. The bill will guarantee that Social Security funds are only used for their intended purpose: ensuring a secure retirement for today’s seniors and tomorrow’s retirees. In endorsement letters to Congressman DeFazio supporting his legislation, advocacy organizations touted the importance of the measures. “Veterans, women, people with disabilities, children who have lost parents, and, indeed all Social Security beneficiaries, now and in the future, would all benefit from the enactment of your legislation,” said the executive leadership of Social Security Works “Together, these changes would strengthen Social Security benefits while extending solvency of the trust funds responsibly, without cutting benefits,” said Edward Cates, Chairman of the Senior Citizens League “…We believe your bill would go a long way in ensuring the retirement security that senior citizens have earned and deserve.” Fast Facts on Social Security: *Social Security is the main source of income for two-thirds of American retirees. *Without Congressional action, the Social Security Trust Fund will be depleted by 2033. The Disability fund alone is slated to run dry as soon as the end of 2016. *94 percent of American workers pay Social Security tax (FICA) on all of their income ###
04.22.2015	Thank you, Chairman. Demand for ivory and rhino horn in much of East Asia, particularly China, has skyrocketed in recent years, increasing the price of ivory from less than $5 per pound to as much as $1,500 per pound. South Africa is now experiencing their highest poaching numbers in decades. Over 100,000 African elephants were killed between the years 2010-2012, resulting in a population decline of 64%. Last year alone, more than 20,000 African elephants and over 1,200 rhinos were killed. Elephants are currently being killed faster than they can reproduce and three out of the five remaining rhinoceros species are critically endangered. There are only 4,800 black rhinos, 35 Javan rhinos, and only one male northern white rhino left in the entire world. It is truly sobering. Without drastic action soon, we will witness the destruction of these species. In addition to nearly wiping out an entire species, a very troubling aspect of the poaching and trafficking epidemic is the link to global terrorism. Numerous reports – including one to the United Nations Security Council – have shown that poaching has become increasingly systematic and militarized, often to the direct benefit of terrorist groups like al-Shabaab in Somalia, the Janjaweed in Darfur, and Joseph Kony’s Lord’s Resistance Army in Central Africa. Al-Shabaab, responsible for two recent attacks in Kenya that have left more than 100 people dead, derives 40% of its funding from illegal ivory. African countries are trying desperately to protect their remaining elephant and rhino populations, but park rangers and other law enforcement officials are outmanned and outgunned. Today’s poachers use automatic weapons, night vision goggles, and even helicopters in pursuit of their prey, making stopping them on the ground extremely difficult. While we need to continue to provide counter-poaching assistance, that will not be enough. Ivory and rhino horn traffickers are organized and sophisticated criminal syndicates that are often well connected in government and business circles. Ivory is part of a multi-billion dollar trade in illegal wildlife, brought to you by the same people who deal in drugs, guns, and people. The time has come to hold accountable those countries that facilitate poaching, turn a blind eye to ivory being trafficked through their ports, and fail to crack down on illegal trade within their borders. To that end, today I reintroduced legislation, the Targeted Use of Sanctions for Killing Elephants and Rhinoceroses Act. The TUSKER Act will force countries that the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) has identified as significant source, transit, or destination points for illegal ivory and rhino horn to immediately enter into consultations with the United States to put an end to trafficking. If any country fails, it will face trade sanctions under the Pelly Amendment, which will be far more economically damaging than loss of the illegal ivory racket. In 2013, CITES identified eight countries – including China, Thailand, and Vietnam – as instrumental to the global market for illegal ivory. The TUSKER Act will ensure that these countries, and any others identified as problematic in the future, become allies in the fight to save elephants and rhinos and fight organized crime and terrorism. I look forward to working with my colleagues, including some members of this committee, to ensure that the United States uses every tool necessary in combating the trade in illegal ivory and rhino horn. Thank you again for holding this hearing and for allowing me to share my perspective on this critical issue.
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – In recognition of Earth Day, Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation to save the world’s last remaining African elephants and rhinoceros from poachers. The bill would impose trade sanctions on countries that facilitate ivory and rhino horn trafficking. Ivory from elephant tusks and horn from rhinos contributes billions of dollars to the global illegal wildlife trade and funds organized crime and terrorist organizations. “More than 20,000 elephants and 1,200 rhinos were slaughtered in 2014 alone and over 1,000 park rangers have been killed trying to protect endangered wildlife,” said DeFazio. “The illegal wildlife trade funds the operations of gun, drug and human trafficking crime syndicates. It also funds extremely dangerous terrorist groups that threaten regional stability in Africa and national security in the United States. We need to choke off access to the market, especially in countries with the largest number of consumers such as China and Vietnam. My legislation sends a strong message—if countries permit this illegal trafficking, there will be economic consequences.” DeFazio also testified today at a hearing about the national security challenges of poaching and terrorism held by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. His statement can be found here. DeFazio’s legislation, HR 1945, the Targeted Use of Sanctions for Killing Elephants and Rhinoceros (TUSKER) Act, was named in honor of Satao, a large-tusked (or tusker) elephant that was butchered last year by poachers in Kenya. According to the UN Security Council, a number of terrorist organizations are funded in part by the sale of elephant ivory, rhino horn, and other stolen natural resources. They include, Joseph Kony and the Lord’s resistance Army in Uganda, the Janjaweed in Darfur, and the Al-Qaeda linked terrorist group Al-Shabaab. Al-Shabaab is responsible for two recent attacks in Kenya that have left more than 100 people dead. It is reported to receive as much as 40 percent of its financing from the sale of illegal ivory and other poached wildlife. The legislation is supported by many major international wildlife and conservation groups, including Born Free USA, the International Fund for Animal Welfare, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the World Wildlife Fund, and Humane Society International. Statements of support can be found below. Adam Roberts – CEO, Born Free USA: The international illicit ivory trade is being driven by dangerous organized crime syndicates in Africa and Asia and must be stopped. Elephants continue to be slaughtered at record levels; heroic park rangers are literally laying their lives on the line to keep them safe; and national security in the most vulnerable parts of Africa is made more fragile. Congressman DeFazio deserves the full support of all Members of Congress for tackling this significant issue head-on. Ginette Hemley - Senior Vice President of Wildlife Conservation, World Wildlife Fund: “We fully support the goal of this legislation, which is to ensure the integrity of countries' commitments to prevent illegal trade in ivory. With the ongoing poaching crisis devastating many of the world's remaining elephant populations, it is critical we ensure that international agreements on wildlife trade such as CITES are effective, enforceable, and include penalties for those countries that consistently fail to uphold their commitments.” Cathy Liss – President, Animal Welfare Institute: “Poaching, often orchestrated by terrorist organizations, is decimating vulnerable wildlife populations around the world while providing funds terrorists use to fuel their deadly attacks against innocent people, including children. Elephants and rhinoceroses are under serious threat as wildlife trafficking reaches unprecedented levels. We are pleased to support Rep. DeFazio in this effort to combat the poaching crisis by ensuring that countries involved in the trafficking of illicit ivory and rhino horn are held accountable and subject to trade sanctions if they fail to reduce such threats. The very survival of these animals requires strong and decisive action to stop the wanton destruction and brutality associated with the ivory and rhino horn trade.” Jeff Flocken - Regional Director, North America, International Fund for Animal Welfare: “Every 15 minutes, a poacher kills an elephant for its ivory. It’s a material that nobody—except for elephants—needs, and this new legislation from Rep. DeFazio is an important step toward ending the senseless violence and making the world safer for people and animals. The United States has the ability and the responsibility to promote conservation goals here at home and around the world, and efforts like this are crucial to protecting endangered wildlife for generations to come.” Elly Pepper – Wildlife Advocate, Natural Resources Defense Council: “The illegal wildlife trade isn’t just an environmental issue—it’s a national security issue. International thugs, organized criminal syndicates and terrorists have used the multibillion-dollar trade in wildlife parts to raise funds for their nefarious activities. And that sets up a vicious cycle with only negative results: species extinctions, detrimental ecosystem impacts, and decreased national security. This bill is an important step in breaking that dangerous cycle.” -30-
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today responded to the introduction of so-called “fast track” legislation that would give President Obama the authority to push through major trade deals with little to no input from Congress. The bill was introduced by Senators Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). When a free trade agreement is submitted under fast track procedures Congress must pass it within 90 days with an up or down vote, no amendments, and limited debate. It would not be subject to normal congressional committee review and markup. It would forbid all amendments and permit only 20 hours of debate. “Supporters of this bill will tell you it’s better than fast track deals of the past with protections for workers and the environment—don’t take the bait,” said DeFazio. “It reinforces the same failed trade policies of the last 20 years that have earned multi-national corporations record profits and shipped good paying American jobs overseas. Congress must not be used as a doormat to pass bad trade deals. It’s the same raw deal for American workers and the environment.” The Obama administration is asking Congress for fast track authority in order to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), the largest trade agreement in history involving 12 countries that control 40 percent of the global economy. TPP has 29 chapters covering issues such as pharmaceutical patents, copyright law, financial regulation, environmental policy, government procurement, food safety and more. “Without the proper protections, trade deals can give foreign governments or multinational corporations a means to circumvent U.S. laws. As Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I want to be sure we preserve strong Buy America policies in federal and local transportation projects to support American jobs and workers and ensure that policies like Buy America are not undermined in any future free trade agreement.” Fast track authority is not necessary to pass trade agreements. Despite not having fast track for six of his eight years in office, President Clinton still successfully implemented more than a hundred trade agreements. ###
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. –. Today at a hearing of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) voiced his support for the U.S. Coast Guard and its mission, and blasted stagnant budgets that have made it more difficult for the Coast Guard to meet its mission demands and improve its performance. DeFazio also pressed the Coast Guard to continue critical rescue helicopter operations for Oregon’s coastal communities. “Stagnant budgets only perpetuate the same kind of re-shuffling and redeployment of assets which led the Coast Guard to propose the ill-advised closure of its search and rescue air facility in Newport, Oregon, as well as a second air facility in Charleston, South Carolina,” said DeFazio. “Had the Oregon Delegation not stepped in last year, the Coast Guard would have lost a busy air facility that handles half of the emergency response calls on the Central Oregon Coast – which faces a cold water environment year round. That’s unacceptable.” DeFazio pressed Vice Admiral Charles Michel, Deputy Commandant for Operations for the United States Coast Guard, on the potential closure of the Newport air facility. Vice Admiral Michel said the Coast Guard “got the message loud and clear.” The Vice Admiral also reiterated the importance of search and rescue to the Coast Guard’s mission and his focus on improving it. Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy. DeFazio and the Oregon delegation successfully passed legislation last year that delayed the closure and keeping the U.S. Coast Guard’s air facility at Newport open through January 2016. However, additional Congressional action may be necessary to keep an air facility in Newport in 2016 and beyond. In March, DeFazio asked Admiral Paul Zukunft, Commandant of the Coast Guard to complete a cost-benefit analysis to show potential tradeoffs of a Newport closure. He asked Zukunft to consider how the closure would stretch the capability and reliability of air assets, lengthen flight trips and ultimately increase maintenance costs due to increased operating hours. --30--
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement after the Senate approved H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. The bill, also referred to as the “Doc Fix,” was passed by the House on March 26, and includes a provision authored by DeFazio and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) that extends the Secure Rural Schools program and provides about $180 million to Oregon counties over two years to pay for vital services such as education, law enforcement and road maintenance. The bill now goes to the President who is expected to sign it into law. “I’m pleased the Senate finally approved legislation to help Oregon’s struggling counties. The two year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program will provide funding for schools, roads and local law enforcement at a critical time. The funding ensures Oregon’s rural services don’t collapse as we continue to work on a long-term forest management solution that puts Oregonians back to work in the woods, improves forest health and reduces the risk of catastrophic wildfires, and provides revenues to counties for essential services. “I’m also pleased we are ensuring access to healthcare for all children by extending the CHIP program; investing in community health centers which provide a vital service in underserved areas; and guaranteeing continued access to Medicare for millions of America’s senior citizens by ending a decade-long cycle of annual “doc-fix” patches.” ###
04.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio joined Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley in Josephine County to celebrate the expansion of the Oregon Caves National Monument and Preserve. Thanks to legislation passed by Congress last December, the site increased nearly eightfold, from 480 acres to 4,550 acres. In addition to the land expansion, the legislation also designated the River Styx, which travels through the caves, as the first underground river in the country to be considered “scenic” under the “wild and scenic program." “More than 100 years ago, President Theodore Roosevelt’s administration first proposed expanding the boundaries of the Oregon Caves to provide greater protections for one of our state’s most geologically unique places,” DeFazio said. “It is an honor to stand here today and see that dream become a reality. This is an important moment in our state’s history and a wonderful tribute to Oregon’s legacy of responsibly managing its most precious assets and providing new recreational and economic opportunities in Josephine County.” Click here to learn more about the Oregon Caves National Monument from the National Park Service website. Additional notes on DeFazio’s work on the expansion: DeFazio first became involved in the Oregon Caves more than 20 years ago. He introduced legislation during three different sessions of Congress to expand the Oregon Caves boundary (110th Congress, 111th Congress, 112th Congress). Finally, as Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Committee in the 113th Congress, DeFazio was able to request the “Oregon Caves Revitalization Act” be included in the National Defense Authorization Act of FY15, which was signed into law in December 2014. ###
04.07.2015	Portland, OR – U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Rep. Peter DeFazio will meet Friday with advocates for the Oregon Caves to celebrate the first tourist season with added land and protections for one of the state’s most unique natural treasures. A bill passed late in the last Congress adds 4,070 acres to the 480-acre Oregon Caves National Monument, promoting recreation in Southern Oregon, boosting the local economy and improving forest health. In addition to the land expansion, the legislation also designates the River Styx, which travels through the caves, as the first underground river in the country to be considered “scenic” under the “wild and scenic program." “As Oregon heads into the spring and summer tourist season, the monument’s nearly eightfold expansion and these additional protections are very welcome news for one of our state’s most iconic natural treasures,’’ Wyden said. “This is a fantastic shot in the arm for Oregon’s tourism and recreation economy.” “The expansion of the Oregon Caves National Monument will provide an added boost to the regional recreation economy and protect one of Oregon’s most iconic locations,” said Merkley. “Now, more visitors will get to experience the natural beauty of Josephine County by visiting the River Styx, the nation’s first scenic underground river, the spectacular underground caves, and now over 4,000 acres of newly protected forest land.” “This celebration was decades in the making, so I’m immensely proud to say we were finally able to cross the finish line,” DeFazio said. “Not only will expanding the Oregon Caves provide long-term protections for one of the most geologically unique places in the Northwest, it will also expand recreational opportunities and encourage visitors to stay longer and explore more. This is a huge economic opportunity for Josephine County, which is why the expansion garnered so much local support.” WHERE: The Chateau, Oregon Caves National Monument, 19000 Caves Hwy, Cave Junction WHEN: 1 pm, Friday, April 10 ###
04.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement after the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) issued urgent recommendations that would improve safety of rail tank cars transporting hazardous materials. “For nearly 25 years, NTSB has been pushing to increase safety standards for rail tank cars carrying hazardous materials. The recommendations issued today to replace the outdated, unsafe rail cars moving hazardous materials through our communities are just common sense. I am very happy to see that they recommended thermal protection for cars carrying hazardous materials, an aggressive retrofit or replacement schedule, and a transparent, publicly available reporting mechanism to report tank car replacement. I applaud these suggestions and urge OMB to expedite the rule to increase safety and protect our communities as soon as possible.” To view the NTSB recommendation, click on the following link:https://www.ntsb.gov/safety/safety-recs/recletters/R-15-014-017.pdf ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 in a 392-37 vote. The bill, also referred to as the “Doc Fix,” includes an extension of the Secure Rural Schools program, which provides about $180 million to Oregon counties over two years to pay for vital services such as education, law enforcement and road maintenance. “Today’s bipartisan vote in the House is a huge victory for Oregon’s struggling counties, as well as children and senior citizens across the country. Not only did we secure a two-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program, we also extended the CHIP program, which ensures access to healthcare for all children; secured critical funding for community health centers and expanded a vital service in underserved areas; and guaranteed continued access to Medicare for millions of America’s senior citizens by ending a decade-long cycle of annual “doc-fix” patches. This bill required compromise, but in the end, it demonstrates a strong commitment to the people we serve. I strongly urge the Senate to approve this bill as soon as possible.” ###
03.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today praised the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) after it announced it would change the 40-mile calculation used to determine the distance between a veteran’s residence and the nearest VA medical facility. Instead of drawing a straight line “as the crow flies,” the calculation will be based on actual driving distance, allowing roughly twice as many veterans to seek care in their own communities rather than traveling to a far-off VA facility. The calculation change comes three weeks after Rep. DeFazio and his colleagues wrote a letter to the VA Secretary, urging him to change the rule. “I’m pleased to see the VA Secretary make this common sense fix. The new formula announced today will accurately reflect the time and distance of travel, which is critical to our veterans who live in rural areas and do not have easy access to a VA facility,” DeFazio said. “This is another simple yet important step toward fulfilling our commitment to the men and women who have served our country. Over the past year, Congress has worked diligently to overhaul the VA, and it’s encouraging to see the Secretary taking action to increase access to veterans’ healthcare, rather than creating new roadblocks.” ###
03.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted the House Republican budget for slashing investments in new transportation infrastructure projects and cutting family-wage, American jobs. During floor debate on the Republican budget, DeFazio slammed Republican leadership for offering a budget that would devolve much of the federal responsibility to the states. “As Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I am strongly opposed to the devastating cuts to surface transportation infrastructure investment under this plan and the resulting blow to the economy, the construction industry, the manufacturing industry, and hundreds of thousands of American workers… By slashing FY 2016 highway funding to almost zero, this Budget Resolution is one step down the road to devolution. In case you haven’t heard, devolution is a non-starter,” said DeFazio. The Republican Budget purports to “reform” the Highway Trust Fund by limiting expenditures out of the Trust Fund in FY 2016 to receipts coming in. The impacts of this misguided approach are profound. According to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), this approach would result in a 99 percent cut in new highway funding in every state [a state-by-state breakdown of Republican cuts to transportation is attached]. States would not receive any funding for new transit projects in FY 2016. FHWA estimates that nearly 90 percent of a State’s outlays in a given year are for projects obligated in a prior year. By tying expenditures out of the Trust Fund to receipts, this Budget essentially means States cannot obligate funds to new projects in FY 2016. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), over the next 10 years (FY 2016 – FY 2025), this approach would result in a 30 percent cut in new highway funds to States and a cut of 60 percent in new transit funds compared to today’s levels. A recent analysis by the American Road and Transportation Builders Association shows that, if Federal funding was effectively cut, States would have to raise their own gas taxes by anywhere from 11.5 cents to $1 per gallon. The nationwide average is 23.5 cents per gallon. “There was a time when Republicans were proud of leading the way on infrastructure investment. They were the party of Lincoln and Eisenhower. We need continued leadership to make investments in our infrastructure that will preserve our economy and quality of life for future generations. Sadly, this Budget Resolution moves backward rather than forward,” said DeFazio. Video of the speech can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h7pnI9cDjnU ###
03.24.2015	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced today he has secured a two-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS). This program is critical to Oregon’s schools, roads and local law enforcement. It will be included in the so-called “Doc Fix” bill, which the House is expected to vote on this week. “It’s not always easy to find common ground in Congress. But today, both sides came together to do what’s right for our struggling, economically depressed rural communities,” DeFazio said. “I worked with key members of the Democratic Caucus and leadership, including Leader Pelosi to secure this critical funding, and I commend my colleague Greg Walden for working with Republicans. This bipartisan effort will ensure Oregon’s rural services don’t collapse as we continue to work on a long-term forest management solution that puts Oregonians back to work in the woods, improves forest health and reduces the risk of catastrophic wildfires, and provides revenues to counties for essential services.” The Secure Rural Schools program was created to help timber-dependent counties after changes in federal timber policy dramatically reduced timber receipts to rural communities across the United States. Of Oregon’s 36 counties, 33 have received payments through the program, which help forested counties pay for vital services like sheriff’s patrols, jail beds for violent offenders, education, and infrastructure needs. The House is expected to vote on the “Doc Fix,” which expires April 1, this week. If passed by the House, the bill then goes to the Senate for a vote. ###
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Members of Congress today refuted claims that United States Trade Representative Michael Froman is making about the trade deficit. Ambassador Froman has told Members of Congress that the U.S. has a trade surplus with its free trade agreement partners, which is in direct contradiction to U.S. International Trade Commission data showing the U.S. has a large goods trade deficit with its free trade agreement partners. Their letter to Ambassador Froman can be viewed here. It was signed by Representatives Peter DeFazio, Rosa DeLauro, Keith Ellison, Jerrold Nadler, Alan Grayson, Tim Ryan, Mark Pocan and Marcy Kaptur. Several of the representatives held a press conference this morning outlining their concerns. Audio of that press conference is available here. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR), said: “Mr. Froman came to Capitol Hill this week with cherry-picked statistics in an attempt to sweet talk Congress into adopting yet another failed trade policy. I listened as he claimed the Korea trade deal was a good deal for the U.S. auto industry, but when you look at all the numbers-- not just half of them-- you see that yes, while the U.S. exported some 40,000 cars to Korea, it also imported more than one million cars. That is a trade deficit, pure and simple, and at the end of the day it means the loss of American jobs.” Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) said: “At an unclassified briefing yesterday morning, Ambassador Froman told Members of Congress that the U.S. enjoys trade surpluses with our Free Trade Agreement Partners. That is wrong. The numbers Ambassador Froman is using to substantiate this claim are plainly misleading and count goods that merely pass through the U.S. on their way to somewhere else. You do not need a PhD in economics to know this is disingenuous at best. Calling them U.S. exports is just plain wrong.” “Ambassador Froman needs to check his math on America’s trade agreements,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). “Even with numbers padded heavily with re-exports, our trade imbalances have ballooned with every new trade deal, especially in automotive manufacturing. Those deficits mean real jobs lost and wages cut for America’s working families. This is not the first time a bad trade deal has been sold to Congress and the American people on a failed promise of increased exports and jobs, but it needs to be the last.” Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) said: “I am dismayed that a Democratic Administration would mislead our Caucus to believe that we have a trade surplus with our Free Trade Agreement Partners. The data that was presented to us yesterday was distorted. There is a clear track-record of these trade agreements gutting the American workforce and industry, and all we ask for is accurate information during the ongoing debate.” Congressman Mark Pocan said: “It’s time for the U.S. Trade Representative to start telling Congress the truth and stop treating us like children sitting at the kid’s table. The misleading facts about the trade deficit Ambassador Froman presented to the Congress insults us all. Every Member has a constitutional obligation to review and approve trade agreements on behalf of our constituents and the American people deserve to hear the whole truth about trade, not the USTR’s spin on the numbers.” ###
03.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Patrick McHenry (R-TN) and Richard Neal (D-MA) are pleased to announce the House Small Brewers Caucus has been reestablished in the 114th Congress. Founded by DeFazio and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) in 2007, this bipartisan group is dedicated to issues affecting America’s small brewers and currently includes 143 members of the House. Craft brewing is a fast-growing, $34 billion+ industry that directly supports 115,000 American jobs. In order to create a better business environment for small brewers, the Caucus is backing legislation that would reduce the excise taxes on the sale of the first two million barrels of beer sold by small brewers each year. The Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce (BREW) Act would allow small brewers to use the savings to purchase more equipment and hire more workers, boosting local economies in communities across the country. “If you need an example of how craft breweries affect local economies, just look at Oregon,” DeFazio said. “Even during the recession, craft breweries experienced strong growth and today, it’s a $3 billion industry in my state. These small businesses support thousands of local jobs and provide the rest of us with a quality American product. This is exactly the kind of growth I’m proud to support.” “I am very excited to begin work with the Small Brewers Caucus and honored to serve as a co-chairman,” Kelly said. “These main street businesses contribute powerfully to their local economies and provide many thousands of jobs to hardworking Americans from coast to coast. In Pennsylvania alone, craft breweries add to the commonwealth’s economy by nearly $2 billion. I look forward to making sure national policy allows them to keep brewing, growing, and creating more American jobs.” "With over 20 small breweries in the 10th District I know the positive, job-creating impact these small businesses can have,” McHenry said. “I look forward to continuing as Vice Chairman of the Caucus as we work in a bipartisan fashion to advance their interests." “The craft brewing industry in Massachusetts is thriving because they make distinctive products for passionate consumers. These breweries are locally owned, generate economic development and create good jobs. I have been an enthusiastic supporter of these small businesses and entrepreneurs and I am proud to be a part of the leadership of this bipartisan caucus,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “The Brewers Association would like to congratulate Rep. DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Kelly (R-PA), Rep. Neal (D-MA) and Rep. McHenry (R-NC), Co-Chairs and Vice Chairs, respectively, of the House Small Brewers Caucus,” said Bob Pease, president and CEO of the Brewers Association. “They and the other 143 members of Congress who make up the Caucus recognize the economic impact that craft breweries have had over the past 25 years and continue to have in their communities across the country. More than 3,400 craft breweries are responsible for employing more than 115,000 Americans in quality manufacturing and service jobs. We thank the Chairs and Vice Chairs for their efforts, which help foster the continued growth of—and job creation by—craft breweries across the country.” ###
03.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting an examination of emergency response capabilities to handle crude oil transportation by rail. “As trains travel from oil production areas such as the Bakken in North Dakota to refineries along the Gulf, East and West Coasts, they pass through a number of states, including very rural areas. I have significant concerns that emergency responders in these states, particularly in the most remote and environmentally sensitive areas, may not be sufficiently prepared to respond to a serious rail accident involving the transportation of crude oil, such as what happened in Lac-Megantic, Quebec; Casselton, North Dakota; or Lynchburg, Virginia,” wrote DeFazio. Specifically, DeFazio asks the following: How have the railroads prepared to respond to potential incidents from transporting crude oil by rail and coordinated with state and local emergency responders, and what more could be done? I am specifically interested in: notification to State emergency response agencies, preparation and communication of spill response plans with States and local communities, and coordination of resources for responding to accidents, prepositioning of critical resources necessary to respond to spills in both urban and rural areas, including forest lands, with limited road access, prone to catastrophic fire, or at-risk due to long-term drought, prepositioning of critical resources to contain and clean-up oil spills into rivers or other water bodies, and training of rail workers and State and local emergency responders. What federal resources are available to assist emergency responders and are they sufficient to meet responders’ needs? If not, what options exist for increasing federal resources? What actions has the U.S. Department of Transportation taken to improve emergency response to potential incidents involving the transportation of crude oil by rail and what more could be done? The letter was sent the same day that DeFazio held a roundtable in Springfield, Oregon, to discuss transportation of crude oil and hazardous materials by rail and emergency response capabilities. Emergency responders, railroads, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, the State of Oregon, and the cities of Eugene and Springfield were all represented at the meeting. A copy of the full letter is below. March 12, 2015 The Honorable Gene Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Comptroller General Dodaro: The increase in domestic production of crude oil from shale and other tight formations has resulted in a significant rise in the use of rail to transport crude oil long distances across the country. Recent accidents in the United States and Canada involving trains carrying a large quantity of crude oil have underscored the increased risks posed by transporting flammable hazardous materials in this manner. As trains travel from oil production areas such as the Bakken in North Dakota to refineries along the Gulf, East and West Coasts, they pass through a number of states, including very rural areas. I have significant concerns that emergency responders in these states, particularly in the most remote and environmentally sensitive areas, may not be sufficiently prepared to respond to a serious rail accident involving the transportation of crude oil, such as what happened in Lac-Megantic, Quebec; Casselton, North Dakota; or Lynchburg, Virginia. Given these concerns, I request that the Government Accountability Office examine emergency response capabilities to handle crude oil transportation by rail. In particular, I am interested in the following: How have the railroads prepared to respond to potential incidents from transporting crude oil by rail and coordinated with state and local emergency responders, and what more could be done? I am specifically interested in: notification to State emergency response agencies, preparation and communication of spill response plans with States and local communities, and coordination of resources for responding to accidents, prepositioning of critical resources necessary to respond to spills in both urban and rural areas, including forest lands, with limited road access, prone to catastrophic fire, or at-risk due to long-term drought, prepositioning of critical resources to contain and clean-up oil spills into rivers or other water bodies, and training of rail workers and State and local emergency responders. What federal resources are available to assist emergency responders and are they sufficient to meet responders’ needs? If not, what options exist for increasing federal resources? What actions has the U.S. Department of Transportation taken to improve emergency response to potential incidents involving the transportation of crude oil by rail and what more could be done? Thank you in advance for your assistance with this matter. If you have questions, please contact Jennifer Homendy xxx of my staff at (xxx) xxx-xxxx. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO Ranking Member ###
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Eleven members of the U.S. House from the Pacific Northwest wrote today to the U.S. Forest Service urging them to hold more listening sessions on upcoming revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan. The members expressed concern that sessions are only planned for three locations: Seattle, Wash.; Portland, Ore.; and Redding, Calif. “For over 30 years, the Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions,” the members wrote. The full text of the letter is below. Led by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the letter was also signed by every member of the Oregon delegation (Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, Earl Blumenauer, and Suzanne Bonamici), five members from Washington State (Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler, Derek Kilmer, Dan Newhouse, Dave Reichert, and Suzan DelBene), and Rep. Doug LaMalfa from California. “While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate,” the members continued. In February, the Forest Service announced that the listening sessions would begin “a public conversation on the process for revising forest land management plans in the Northwest Forest Plan amendment area… The land management plans within the Northwest Forest Plan area guide how resources will be managed for 15 to 20 years. These plans are due for revision.” Jim Pena, Regional Forester Randy Moore, Regional Forester U.S. Forest Service, Region Six U.S. Forest Service, Region Five 1220 SW Third Avenue 1323 Club Drive Portland, OR 97204 Vallejo, CA 94592 Dear Regional Forester Pena and Moore: Recently, the Forest Service announced that it would be holding three public listening sessions to begin collecting public input on upcoming revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan, one each in Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; and Redding, California. While we strongly support efforts to gather public input, we are concerned by the limited number and urban focus of these listening sessions. We request the Forest Service hold additional listening sessions in rural forested communities throughout the Northwest, where the residents feel the impacts of plan changes most directly. For over 30 years, the Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions. While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate. Once again, we urge you to hold additional listening sessions in a wider variety of locations to ensure that our constituents, both urban and rural, can have their voices heard and their input considered. ###
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), joined by 76 other members of the House of Representatives, sent a letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell today asking her to support a petition to downlist the gray wolf from endangered to threatened under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) rather than removing ESA protections entirely. The letter is available at https://1.usa.gov/1ENHsbb. A peer review of the delisting rule for gray wolves in the lower 48 states found that the rule was not based on the best available science. Two separate courts recently vacated scientifically unsound rules that had delisted wolves in Wyoming and the Western Great Lakes region. “I strongly support this Administration’s efforts to protect and conserve endangered species because the Fish and Wildlife Service backs up its decisions and actions with the best science,” Grijalva said. “Unfortunately, I fear that’s not the case this time. Gray wolves are still subject to intense persecution where they are not protected. They currently inhabit only five percent of their historical range and are clearly still threatened with extinction. This downlisting is the right way to make sure they get the continued legal protection they need.” “The recovering gray wolf populations are encouraging, but their progress is fragile at best,” DeFazio said. “Allowing states to declare open season on wolves would roll back decades of science-based planning, not to mention significant federal, state and local resources. I urge Secretary Jewell to play an active role in keeping protections in place.” The petition filed by the Humane Society of the United States and a number of other conservation groups presents a scientifically and legally defensible path forward on wolf management under the ESA, downlisting the species to threatened status rather than removing all protections. This approach allows states more flexibility in managing wolves while also ensuring that wolves are allowed to recover where there is suitable habitat. ###
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – With Congress preparing to consider Trade Promotion Authority at any time, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) joined his fellow members of Congress and hundreds of American workers, including Oregon AFL-CIO President Tom Chamberlain, at the U.S. Capitol today to urge its defeat. Trade Promotion Authority would pave the way for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-country free trade agreement that would reduce U.S. wages, ship jobs overseas, roll back environmental standards and consumer protections, and threaten worker safety rules. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership is the road to ruin for U.S. manufacturing and middle-class jobs,” DeFazio said. “Twenty one years ago, Americans were promised that NAFTA would set the U.S. economy on fire and strengthen the middle class. The exact opposite happened. In the years following that disastrous trade deal, corporations set up shop in Mexico and the U.S. lost five million manufacturing jobs, including 52,000 in Oregon alone. Congress needs to stand up for the main street Americans who sent them to D.C., not the Wall Street billionaires and corporate CEOs who want to ram this trade deal down our throats.” “By using fast-tracked trade promotion authority, we’re allowing ourselves to be at the mercy of the next NAFTA,” Chamberlain said. “Oregon has seen too many jobs disappear due to free trade acts being negotiated behind closed doors. It’s time to put all the details out there, let democracy work and end a corporate-funded agenda that ignores the working people of Oregon, and of the United States.” Trade Promotion Authority would force a vote on a controversial trade deal within 90 days. It would also strip Congress of the ability to offer amendments that would protect U.S. workers. ###
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed bipartisan legislation that will provide critical investments in our Nation’s passenger rail system. H.R. 749, the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 (PRRIA) will ensure that our national passenger rail system continues its mission to connect communities – both large and small – across the country. The legislation passed 316-101. The bipartisan legislation was sponsored by the top leadership of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, including Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Chairman of the Rail Subcommittee Jeff Denham (R-CA) and Subcommittee Ranking Member Michael Capuano (D-MA). “In every region of the country, including the Pacific Northwest, passenger rail investments boost local economies and create thousands of family-wage construction, engineering, and manufacturing jobs. This bill isn’t perfect—but it was a bipartisan effort that ultimately provides critical investments and system wide improvements to increase capacity and make our railways safer. I’m glad that we were able to pass this legislation in a bipartisan way,” said DeFazio. [See video of his floor speech here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VrxwlogYtz0] The legislation includes important reforms that will increase the number of loans issued to States, local governments, railroads, and shippers to finance the development of railroad infrastructure. The legislation includes strong Buy America provisions that ensure these loans are used to buy American steel, iron, and manufactured goods, boosting American manufacturing and created needed manufacturing jobs. AMTRAK BACKGROUND Amtrak operates two long-distance trains in Oregon: the Coast Starlight, which runs from Seattle through Portland to Los Angeles; and the Empire Builder, which starts in Seattle and Portland, converges in Spokane, and continues on to Chicago. Amtrak also operates one state-supported route in Oregon: the Amtrak Cascades, which travels from Eugene to Vancouver, British Columbia. The route has grown to be one of the Nation’s highest ridership rail corridors, serving nearly 850,000 passengers in fiscal year 2014. Oregon received $19.7 million in fiscal year 2010 through the intercity passenger rail grant program to complete planning and preliminary engineering work to ready projects for construction on the route. H.R. 749 reauthorizes this important program. Since 2009, Amtrak ridership has increased by 14 percent and every day, an estimated 86,000 passengers ride Amtrak trains. Amtrak revenue has increased by nearly 38% - from $1.56 billion in 2009 to $2.15 billion in 2014. ###
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement after voting to keep the Department of Homeland Security funded through the fiscal year. “Today I voted yes on behalf of nearly 2,000 Oregonians who work day in and day out to protect our coastlines, prepare for disasters and keep our airports secure. We should never compromise our national security or ask hardworking Americans to go without a paycheck just so one party can score a political point.” ###
03.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) today announced they have reorganized the Northwest Energy Caucus and will serve as co-chairs. This bipartisan group is dedicated to the responsible management of Pacific Northwest energy resources, including the continued availability of low-cost power in the region. “The Pacific Northwest is home to a unique resource that has provided clean, reliable, cheap power and served as the economic backbone of the region for decades,” DeFazio said. “With that in mind, we all have a stake in managing the Northwest federal hydropower system wisely. As a united front, we will continue working on a bipartisan basis to enhance and protect this resource, especially as we navigate new and complex challenges such as the Columbia River Treaty, the refinement of the salmon recovery plan and the integration of renewable power into the grid.” “We owe it to the Pacific Northwest and to the rest of the country to expand an energy source that will not only lower energy costs, but create thousands of jobs – and that’s hydropower,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Through the Northwest Energy Caucus, we will continue to work across the aisle to support our region’s top priorities – including the Columbia River Treaty. Energy bills are jobs bills, and our Caucus will work to promote hydropower, our nation’s largest, cleanest, most affordable, reliable, and renewable energy source.” Current Membership in the Northwest Energy Caucus for the 114th Congress: Oregon: Peter DeFazio, OR-04 (Co-Chair) Suzanne Bonamici, OR-01 Greg Walden, OR-02 Earl Blumenauer, OR-03 Kurt Schrader, OR-05 Washington: Cathy McMorris Rodgers WA-5 (Co-chair) Suzan DelBene,WA-01 Jaime Herrera Beutler, WA-03 Dan Newhouse, WA-04 Derek Kilmer, WA-06 Jim McDermott, WA-07 Dave Reichert, WA-08 Denny Heck, WA-10 Idaho: Mike Simpson, ID-02 Montana: Ryan Zinke, MT-At Large ###
02.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – With just two days until funding runs out for the Department of Homeland Security, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today warned of the financial hit to Oregon families and the local economy. According to DHS, there are 1,888 full-time DHS employees in the state of Oregon. *1,111 are active duty members of the U.S. Coast Guard *777 are civilian employees These 1,888 employees, who protect our coastlines, respond to disasters and provide airport security, would either be furloughed or required to work without pay. The DHS funding bill has been held up by a small group of House Republicans who want to attach ideological language that would block President Obama’s executive order on immigration. “Speaker Boehner and his Republican buddies may not think it’s a big deal to go weeks without a paycheck, but to thousands of hardworking Oregonians, a paycheck can be the difference between making your mortgage payment or not. It’s outrageous that Speaker Boehner is willing to put American workers in financial straits and sacrifice our national security simply because he can’t stand up to the ultra-right wing conservatives who are trying to score a political point against the president.” Rep. DeFazio has cosponsored H.R. 1024, which would give back pay to any DHS employee affected by the pending shutdown. ###
02.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today pressed the United States Coast Guard on its decision to close the air facility in Newport, Oregon. During a House hearing, DeFazio questioned the claim that closing the Newport helicopter station will provide cost savings without jeopardizing search and rescue capabilities. “The Coast Guard is under tremendous budgetary pressure, but it is impossible to understate how critical having helicopters nearby is to Oregon’s fishing industry, coastal visitors and residents. This air facility responds to half of the emergency calls on the Central Oregon coast and without it, people in imminent danger will have to wait for a helicopter from North Bend or Astoria to rescue them. It is imperative that the Newport air facility stay open and I will do everything I can here in Washington D.C. to ensure we have a permanent resolution,” DeFazio said. (Video from this morning’s hearing here. Specific reference to Newport air station at TC 2:21.) While the Coast Guard claims that it would still be able to meet the national standard of a two-hour search-and-rescue response time, local fishermen and Central Coast residents who depend on the rescue helicopters say first-hand experience shows that closure of the base will lengthen response times and threaten the safety of local mariners. DeFazio asked Admiral Paul Zukunft, Commandant of the Coast Guard to complete a cost-benefit analysis to show potential tradeoffs of a closure. He asked Zukunft to consider how the closure would stretch the capability and reliability of air assets, lengthen flight trips and ultimately increase maintenance costs due to increased operating hours. Newport is home to one of Oregon’s three deep draft ports, the state’s largest grossing commercial fishing fleet, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Pacific Operations Center, Oregon State University research personnel and vessels, and a robust recreational and sport fishing industry that is critical to the local economy. DeFazio and the Oregon delegation successfully passed legislation last year that delayed the closure and will keep the U.S. Coast Guard’s air facility at Newport open through January 2016. However, additional Congressional action will likely be necessary to keep an air facility in Newport in 2016 and beyond. ###
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced legislation to reform our hardrock mining laws that date back to 1872. The bill would finally force corporations to 1) pay royalties for minerals extracted from public lands and 2) contribute to a fund for cleanup costs. Rep. DeFazio points to the 76-acre Formosa Mine Superfund Site in Douglas County as a perfect example of the need for reform. A Canadian company extracted copper and zinc from the mine for years until state inspectors shut it down in 1993. Since then, the mine drainage control system has failed and toxic drainage has leaked into the South Fork of the Middle Creek, degrading fish habitat and posing a threat to other wildlife. The Canadian company has since dissolved. The EPA estimates cleaning up the mine will cost U.S. taxpayers $14 million. “The Formosa Mine demonstrates everything that is wrong with our current mining laws. Foreign companies come in, tear up the earth without paying a dime, then bolt, leaving a toxic mess that devastates the environment and forces U.S. taxpayers to foot the bill to clean it all up,” DeFazio said. “The only thing that makes it worse is that this story is not unique. There are thousands of abandoned mines across the West, with an estimated cleanup tab of $54 billion. This is reckless and wrong. We need to bring our mining laws out of the 19th century and start holding companies accountable.” The Hardrock Mining Reform and Reclamation Act of 2015 Act would: Establish an 8 percent royalty on new mines and a 4 percent royalty on existing mines to bring a fair return to American taxpayers; Use those royalties and money raised by newly established pollution fees to clean up abandoned hardrock mine lands across the country; End the antiquated patenting system that allows companies to purchase mineral-containing public land for as little as $2.50 per acre; Establish strong reclamation standards and bonding requirements to make sure taxpayers don’t pay for cleanups if a company skips town or goes bankrupt; Provide clear authority to federal land managers to reject a proposed mine if it would unduly degrade public lands or resources; Protect wilderness study areas, roadless areas, and wild and scenic rivers from mining; Empower state, local, and tribal governments to petition federal authorities to withdraw certain areas from mining in order to protect drinking water, wildlife habitat, cultural and historic resources, or other important values; Exempt mining operation making less than $100,000/year of income. The bill is supported by The Wilderness Society, National Wildlife Federation, Earthworks, League of Conservation Voters, Natural Resources Defense Council, Sierra Club, the Western Organization of Resource Councils and other groups. ###
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement after Governor John Kitzhaber announced his resignation. “This is a tough day for Oregon. John has been a tireless servant for our state, but I believe he made a decision that puts the needs of Oregonians first. Now we move on.” ###
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today joined with Chef Tom Colicchio at a press event in the Capitol to introduce the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act, legislation that would require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to clearly label genetically engineered (GE) foods so that consumers can make informed choices about what they eat. “Consumers have a right to know what is in the foods they eat and parents have a right to know what they are feeding their families,” Senator Boxer said. “This legislation will direct the Food and Drug Administration to require clear information for food that has been genetically engineered.” "As a consumer and dad, I want to know whether my family is eating food that has been altered artificially in genetics-- and the American public wants and deserves to know as well,” Senator Blumenthal said. “This measure is about the right to know-- disclosure of critical information about the most widely consumed products. Consumers demand disclosure and truth- telling about food, and they're right." “We cannot continue to keep Americans in the dark about the food they eat,” Congressman DeFazio said. “More than sixty other countries make it easy for consumers to choose. Why should the U.S. be any different? If food manufacturers stand by their product and the technology they use to make it, they should have no problem disclosing that information to consumers.” “The public wants more information about the food they are buying and how it’s grown,” said Tom Colicchio, owner of Craft Restaurants and co-founder of Food Policy Action. “I applaud Sen. Boxer and Rep. DeFazio for their leadership, and urge their colleagues to join them, and stand up for the 93% of Americans who want to know if their food has been genetically modified.” The FDA currently requires the labeling of over 3,000 ingredients, additives and processes, including labels for juices made “from concentrate,” but the agency has resisted labels for genetically modified foods. In a 1992 policy statement, the FDA allowed GE foods to be marketed without labeling, claiming that these foods were not “materially” different from other foods because the genetic differences could not be recognized by taste, smell or other senses. Unfortunately, the FDA’s antiquated labeling policy has not kept pace with 21st century food technologies that allow for a wide array of genetic and molecular changes to food that can’t be detected by human senses. Common sense would indicate that GE corn that produces its own insecticide, or is engineered to survive being treated with herbicides, is materially different from traditional corn that does not. Even the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has recognized that these foods are materially different and novel for patent purposes. According to surveys, more than 90 percent of Americans support the labeling of genetically engineered foods. In fact, many consumers are surprised to learn that GE foods are not already labeled. Also, 64 countries around the world already require the labeling of GE foods, including all the member nations of the European Union, Russia, Japan, China, Australia and New Zealand. Millions of Americans have filed comments with the FDA urging the agency to label GE foods, underscoring that today’s consumers – who are used to reading labels to see if foods contain MSG, gluten, trans fats, high fructose corn syrup or aspartame – clearly want more information when making decisions for their families. The legislation would require clear labels for genetically engineered foods intended for human consumption, including whole foods, processed foods, seafood and animal-based foods to provide consumers with material information about their food and prevent consumer confusion. Under the bill, if a food has been genetically engineered, it would identified as a GE food in the ingredients list. Any product that has been genetically engineered would also not be allowed to identify itself with a “natural” label. The measure would also resolve concerns about the emerging patchwork of state labeling standards by directing the FDA to implement a federal labeling standard for all GE foods. Three states – Connecticut, Maine and Vermont – currently have mandatory GE labeling laws, and in 2013 and 2014, more than 60 bills and ballot initiatives were introduced in more than 30 states. Senator Boxer and Congressman DeFazio introduced similar legislation in the 113th Congress, and in 2012, they sent a letter with 54 Senate and House colleagues, urging the FDA to require the labeling of GE foods. The Senate bill is cosponsored by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Jon Tester (D-MT) and Cory Booker (D-NJ). Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Jared Polis (D-CO), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Don Young (R-AK), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Dina Titus (D-NV), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Michael Honda (D-CA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Gerald Connolly (D-VA) are the cosponsors of the House bill. The Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act has broad support from organizations and businesses, including the Center for Food Safety, Consumers Union, Environmental Working Group, Just Label It, the National Farmers Union, Stonyfield Farms, Consumer Federation of America, AllergyKids Foundation, National Cooperative Grocers Association, New England Farmers Union, Northwest Atlantic Marine Alliance, Center for Environmental Health, Chefs Collaborative, Label GMOs, Alaska Trollers Association, Ben & Jerry’s, Clif Bar & Company, Lundberg Family Farms, Nature’s Path, Annie’s Inc. and many others. A full list of organizations and businesses endorsing the bill can be found here. ###
02.11.2015	Washington, DC- After the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid failed to respond to a request to delay a rule that negatively impacts rural ambulance service, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) has cosponsored bipartisan legislation that will force the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to do so. With only one month’s notice to Oregon’s rural ambulance providers, the rule reclassified certain rural zip codes as urban areas, which reduced reimbursement rates by roughly nine percent. Reducing reimbursement rates makes it very difficult for ambulance providers to serve rural areas without losing money. Affected areas in Rep. DeFazio’s district include: Albany, Blogett, Brownsville, Cascadia, Foster, Halsey, Lyons, Mill City, Shedd, Tangent, Harrisburg, Wolf Creek, Grants Pass, Merlin, Murphy, Selma and Wilderville. “This bill is about ensuring equal access to medical services whether you live in a big city or in a small town,” DeFazio said. “While it’s important to use Medicaid and Medicare resources wisely, CMS botched the rollout of this new rule and gave ambulance providers zero time to adjust. Ultimately, this puts our rural populations at risk of losing life-saving and life-sustaining services.” The bipartisan bill, called the Fairness in Ambulance Reimbursement Act of 2015, will delay the rural to urban zip code reclassification for the rest of 2015 and will require CMS to adjust future payments to offset the losses. Any future reclassification will require an adequate comment period. ###
02.10.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement today to highlight the week the country’s millionaires will finish paying their Social Security payroll taxes for the year. “This week, Americans making more than one million dollars a year will get a tax break. Not because Congress approved one, but because they’ve already reached the maximum amount of income that is subject to the Social Security tax. That’s right – those making more than one million dollars have already reached the income cap of $118,500, and we’re not even six weeks into the year. “This gaping loophole allows billionaire hedge fund managers and corporate CEOs to pay a lower percentage of their income into Social Security than teachers, police officers and healthcare workers. Ninety-four percent of American workers pay Social Security tax on all of their income. But the wealthiest six percent are exempt from doing the same. By closing this loophole, we can make sure that every American pays exactly the same percentage of their income into Social Security. “Ending this tax racket for the wealthy also ensures that Social Security will continue paying full benefits to every single American who pays in. We have a choice: we can tell our children and grandchildren that their Social Security benefits will be cut in order to maintain a regressive tax that benefits only the richest six percent, or we can close this loophole and guarantee that if you pay into the program, you will receive the full Social Security benefits you were promised. “Unfortunately, this is not the conversation that has dominated Washington, DC in recent years. Instead, some of my colleagues in Congress would prefer to manufacture a crisis in order to privatize the entire system, leaving seniors’ benefits at the mercy of Wall Street power brokers. They want you to think the system cannot be fixed and that Social Security as we know it is doomed. We can prove them wrong. If every American pays their fair share into the system, we can make sure the government fulfills its obligation to America’s seniors.” For more on DeFazio’s plan to preserve Social Security, click here. ###
02.05.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to introduce a bill that addresses the ever-increasing problem of abusive patent litigation, commonly referred to as “patent trolls.” Patent trolls use broad patents to threaten companies with lawsuits in hopes of forcing a quick settlement. This type of lawsuit costs American companies tens of billions of dollars every year. “Patent trolls don’t contribute to the American economy. They don’t build things, provide services or keep our country moving – rather, they prey on our small businesses and innovators by manipulating patent laws and extorting billions of dollars each year from them. It’s time for Congress to drive these litigious leeches to extinction.” Rep. DeFazio is credited with drawing attention to the issue in Congress three years ago, after he spoke with the owner of a small software company is his district that had been targeted. The business owner told DeFazio that they were forced to delay a product launch and put off hiring in order to pay off a patent troll. Jake Weatherly, the CEO of SheerID, Inc., a small technology business in Eugene, Oregon, has worked extensively with Rep. DeFazio on the patent troll issue. Weatherly said he has seen the disruptive effect of patent trolls first-hand. “Letters from patent trolls are like ransom notes,” Weatherly said. “We live in a world where hard-working individuals are being held hostage by frivolous attempts to extract money in the form of ransom. I believe that patent trolling can be disrupted or even eliminated if the patent trolls know they will be responsible for all legal fees if the merits of their claims are shown to be unfounded. I believe strongly in United States Small businesses for many reasons, and the more that small business can be fostered, supported, and protected, the faster we will see job growth, economic growth, and innovation take place.” Today, House Speaker John Boehner said the bill would be among the top legislative priorities for the 114th Congress. The first hearing on H.R. 9 is scheduled for next week. Background on H.R. 9, Innovation Act: Bill introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA); DeFazio is lead Democrat cosponsor. There are 18 original cosponsors of the bill. Requires plaintiffs to disclose who the owner of a patent is before litigation, so that it is clear who the real parties behind the litigation are. This will ensure that Patent Trolls cannot hide behind a web of shell companies to avoid accountability for bringing frivolous litigation. Requires plaintiffs to actually explain why they are suing a company in their court pleadings. Requires courts to make decisions about whether a patent is valid or invalid early in the litigation process so that patent trolls cannot drag patent cases on for years based on invalid claims. This prevents invalid patents from being used to extort money from retailers and end users. When parties bring lawsuits or claims that have no reasonable basis in law and fact, the Innovation Act requires judges to award attorneys’ fees to the victims of the frivolous lawsuit. The bill allows judges to waive the award of attorneys’ fees in special circumstances. This provision applies to both plaintiffs and defendants who file frivolous claims. Requires the Judicial Conference to make rules to reduce the costs of discovery in patent litigation, so that patent trolls cannot use the high costs of discovery to extort money from small businesses and entrepreneurs. Creates a voluntary process for small businesses to postpone expensive patent lawsuits while their larger sellers complete similar patent lawsuits against the same plaintiffs, to protect customers who simply bought the product off-the-shelf. Requires PTO to provide educational resources for those facing abusive patent litigation claims. The Innovation Act previously passed the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 325-91. That legislation was supported by a wide range of groups that include stakeholders from all areas of our economy representing businesses of all kinds from every corner of our country including independent inventors and innovators. ###
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Inspector General Calvin L. Scovel, III requesting a full audit of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) pipeline and hazardous materials safety programs. The request comes on the same day that DeFazio highlighted PHMSA’s failure to address longstanding pipeline and hazardous materials safety issues, including new design standards for DOT-111 tank cars, in a Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee hearing. “In multiple pipeline accident investigations over the last 15 years, the NTSB has identified the same persistent issues, most of which PHMSA has failed to address on its own accord. Each and every time, Congress has been forced to require PHMSA to take action, most recently in the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011. Three years later, almost none of the important safety measures in the Act have been finalized,” wrote DeFazio. DeFazio also highlights PHMSA’s failure to issue a long-delayed rule dealing with the design of rail tank cars. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has raised concerns about the “high incidence of failure” of DOT-111 tank cars since 1991. In fact, the NTSB has investigated or been made aware of 12 accidents involving the transportation of crude oil and other flammable materials in DOT-111 tank cars over the past decade. Despite repeated NTSB recommendations and a 2011 industry-organized petition to adopt new standards, PHMSA failed to act until a train transporting crude oil in DOT-111 tank cars killed 47 people in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, in 2013. A notice of proposed rulemaking was issued two months later; PHMSA has yet to issue a final rule. It does not expect to issue a final rule until May 2015. In the hearing, DeFazio asked rail experts about PHMSA’s failure to issue new rail tank car safety standards. In his letter to the IG, DeFazio requested the IG evaluate the agency’s effectiveness in addressing: congressional mandates, and National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), Government Accountability Office (GAO), and Office of Inspector General (OIG) recommendations in a timely manner; the process PHMSA utilizes for implementing such mandates and recommendations; the sufficiency of PHMSA’s efforts to coordinate with the modal administrations and address safety concerns raised by those administrations; and any impediments to agency action. The full letter to IG Scovel is below: February 3, 2015 The Honorable Calvin L. Scovel III Inspector General U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, DC 20590 Dear Inspector General Scovel: Recently, I sent the enclosed letter to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) expressing my concerns regarding the failure of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to address longstanding pipeline and hazardous materials safety issues, including new design standards for DOT-111 tank cars. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has raised concerns about the “high incidence of failure” of DOT-111 tank cars since 1991. In fact, the NTSB has investigated or been made aware of 12 accidents involving the transportation of crude oil and other flammable materials in DOT-111 tank cars over the past decade. Despite repeated NTSB recommendations and a 2011 petition from the Association of American Railroads to adopt new standards, PHMSA failed to act until a train transporting crude oil in DOT-111 tank cars killed 47 people in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, in 2013. A notice of proposed rulemaking was issued two months later; we still do not have a final rule, and PHMSA does not expect one until May 2015. PHMSA’s failure to address significant safety issues does not end there. In multiple pipeline accident investigations over the last 15 years, the NTSB has identified the same persistent issues, most of which PHMSA has failed to address on its own accord. Each and every time, Congress has been forced to require PHMSA to take action, most recently in the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (P.L. 112-90). Three years later, almost none of the important safety measures in the Act have been finalized. Finalizing these rules is imperative; our Nation’s vast 2.5 million-mile pipeline network is aging. According to PHMSA, more than 50 percent of these pipelines were constructed in the 1950s and 1960s. The potential for catastrophic accidents is not a matter of if, but when. DOT must be prepared to address any pipeline or hazardous material safety deficiencies now, not just when we mandate action. For these reasons, I am concerned with the agency’s ability to address significant safety issues and am requesting an audit of PHMSA’s pipeline and hazardous materials safety programs. Specifically, I request an evaluation of the agency’s effectiveness in addressing: congressional mandates, and NTSB, Government Accountability Office, and Office of Inspector General recommendations in a timely manner; the process PHMSA utilizes for implementing such mandates and recommendations; the sufficiency of PHMSA’s efforts to coordinate with the modal administrations and address safety concerns raised by those administrations; and any impediments to agency action. If you need additional information or have questions regarding this letter, please have your staff contact the Committee staff at (202) 225-3274. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO Ranking Member ###
01.28.2015	Washington, DC- In order to ensure better healthcare for our nation’s veterans, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) has signed on as an original cosponsor of the Veterans Access to Community Care Act of 2015. This bill would improve upon recent reforms to the Veterans Administration, by making two critical clarifications: *Clarify the 40-mile rule to mean forty miles of driving rather than as the crow flies. This common sense solution addresses a common complaint among veterans who use rural roads and/or travel through mountain passes, which can add significant mileage to travel. *Allow veterans to receive local care if their closest VA facility is insufficient, meaning it lacks the equipment or specialists needed to provide the appropriate care. “One of the best things Congress did last year was to adopt badly-needed reforms to the Veterans Administration, but clearly, our work was not finished,” DeFazio stated. “This new legislation makes common sense fixes to the VA’s overly bureaucratic application of the law. Our veterans should never be kept from the best possible care just because of where they live. I will continue to support legislation that improves access to the quality healthcare veterans deserve.” There is a companion bill to the Veterans Access to Community Care Act of 2015 in the Senate. Background: In response to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) wait time manipulation and failure to provide timely, quality healthcare to veterans, Congress passed the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act (VACAA) in July 2014 with the purpose of improving transparency at the VA and providing veterans the choice to access health care outside the VA when timeliness and distance put their well-being at risk. The passage of VACAA would permit veterans to access non-VA, community care if they live more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility or their wait time for an appointment was more than 30 days. The bill introduced in the 114th Congress is intended to improve and clarify the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014. ###
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx, urging him to take immediate action to address rail tank car safety and other significant pipeline and hazardous materials safety hazards. “Despite numerous incidents involving the transportation of crude oil and other flammable materials by rail, subsequent NTSB safety recommendations, and an industry petition for new tank car design standards, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) failed to take action until a train transporting crude oil in DOT-111 tank cars in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, killed 47 people and completely destroyed the town center,” said DeFazio. “Here we are almost 15 months later, and we still do not have a final rule.” DeFazio also takes issue with PHMSA’s failure to address longstanding, significant safety issues that extend to pipelines. In multiple pipeline accident investigations over the last 15 years, the NTSB has identified the same persistent issues–most of which DOT has failed to address. Each time, Congress has been forced to require PHMSA to take action, most recently in the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011. Yet three years later, almost none of the important safety measures in the Act have been finalized, including requirements for pipeline operators to install automatic shutoff valves and to inspect pipelines beyond high-consequence areas. “For these reasons, I will soon be sending a letter to the DOT Inspector General (IG), requesting a thorough audit of PHMSA’s pipeline and hazardous materials safety program, including an evaluation of the agency’s effectiveness in addressing significant safety issues, congressional mandates, and NTSB and IG recommendations in a timely manner; the process PHMSA utilizes for implementing such mandates and recommendations; the sufficiency of PHMSA’s efforts to coordinate with the modal administrations and address safety concerns raised by those administrations; and any impediments to agency action, such as resource constraints.” DeFazio urges DOT to take immediate action to address these serious safety issues. He writes that the tens of millions of Americans who rely on the Federal Government to protect their safety and health and our nation’s natural resources rightly deserve more than proposed rules that languish in the Federal bureaucracy. The full letter to Secretary Foxx is below: January 22, 2015 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary of Transportation U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: I write to express my serious concerns with the repeated failure of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to address longstanding and undisputed pipeline and hazardous materials safety issues. The rule regarding Enhanced Tank Car Standards and Operational Controls for High-Hazard Flammable Trains is a prime example. The DOT maintains finalizing this rule remains one of its highest priorities, yet the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) now reports that publication of a final rule is not anticipated until May 12, 2015. In fact, the DOT has not even transmitted a draft final rule to the Office of Management and Budget for review. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has raised concerns about the “high incidence of failure” of DOT-111 tank cars since 1991. In fact, over the last 10 years, the NTSB has investigated or is currently investigating seven accidents involving the transportation of crude oil and other flammable materials in DOT-111 tank cars, including an October 2006 train derailment in New Brighton, Pennsylvania, which caused the release of 485,278 gallons of ethanol that ignited and burned for almost 48 hours; an October 2007 ethanol train derailment in Painesville, Ohio; a June 2009 ethanol train derailment and fire in Cherry Valley, Illinois, which killed one person, injured nine others, and resulted in a mandatory evacuation of about 600 residences within a half-mile radius of the accident site; an October 2011 ethanol train derailment in Tiskilwa, Illinois; a July 2012 mixed freight train derailment in Columbus, Ohio, which released 53,000 gallons of ethanol; a December 2013 train derailment and fire in Casselton, North Dakota, which resulted in the release of 476,000 gallons of crude oil and the evacuation of 1,400 residents; and, an April 2014 train derailment in Lynchburg, Virginia, which spilled 30,000 gallons of crude oil in and around the James River. The NTSB has been made aware of (but is not investigating) five additional train accidents that occurred between August 2008 and February 2014 in the U.S., which involved the release of crude oil, causing significant environmental damage and fires. In March 2011, the Association of American Railroads petitioned PHMSA to conduct a rulemaking on new tank car design standards, which seemingly languished in the bowels of the agency until 2013, when a train transporting crude oil in DOT-111 tank cars in Lac-Megantic, Quebec, killed 47 people and completely destroyed the town center. Coincidentally, two months later, PHMSA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) on new tank car design standards. Here we are almost 15 months later, and we still do not have a final rule. Frankly, I am concerned that opposition to the more contentious portions of the rule will only lead to further delays, possibly even litigation. That will end up postponing implementation of a final rule while the concerns of States and local communities are growing. Moreover, these delays have significant implications for rail car manufacturers. It will take time for them to adjust to the standards proposed in the rule, which in turn will have a rippling effect on shippers who are putting off purchases of new tank cars until the new design standards are finalized. As I have said before, I believe that you should seriously consider severing this rule and propose one rule on stronger tank car design standards and another rule to address the operational changes proposed in the NPRM. That is sure to move this issue forward and address the more immediate dangers posed by the current DOT-111 tank cars. Additionally, my concerns regarding PHMSA’s failure to address longstanding, significant safety issues extend to pipelines, as well. In multiple pipeline accident investigations over the last 15 years, the NTSB has identified the same persistent issues, most of which DOT has failed to address on its own accord. Each and every time, Congress has been forced to require PHMSA to take action, most recently in the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (P.L. 112-90). Yet, three years later, almost none of the important safety measures in the Act have been finalized, including requirements for pipeline operators to install automatic shutoff valves and to inspect pipelines beyond high-consequence areas. For these reasons, I will soon be sending a letter to the DOT Inspector General (IG), requesting a thorough audit of PHMSA’s pipeline and hazardous materials safety program, including an evaluation of the agency’s effectiveness in addressing significant safety issues, congressional mandates, and NTSB and IG recommendations in a timely manner; the process PHMSA utilizes for implementing such mandates and recommendations; the sufficiency of PHMSA’s efforts to coordinate with the modal administrations and address safety concerns raised by those administrations; and any impediments to agency action, such as resource constraints. In the interim, I urge you to take immediate action to address these serious safety issues. The tens of millions of Americans who rely on the Federal Government to protect their safety and health and our nation’s natural resources rightly deserve more than proposed rules that languish in the Federal bureaucracy. If you need additional information or have questions regarding this letter, please have your staff contact Jennifer Homendy of my staff at 202-225-3274. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO Ranking Democratic Member ###
01.20.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, released the following statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address: “As the president made clear tonight, middle class economics work. It is time to restore the policies that expand opportunity and ensure that every American feels the economic recovery that’s been underway the past several years. “Step one to restoring our middle class is to rebuild our roads, rails, bridges and transit systems. As the Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I was encouraged to hear the president’s call to invest in our infrastructure. I look forward to working with my Republican colleagues, and the Administration, to pass legislation this year that will create good-paying American jobs, drive economic growth, and bring our aging transportation infrastructure into the 21st century. “Step two is closing tax breaks for the wealthy. For far too long, our country’s tax policies have been backward. They penalize those who work hard while rewarding those who simply move money around on Wall Street and gamble with taxpayer money. This is wrong. “While I appreciate the president’s proposals to bolster the middle class through modest tax relief and an affordable college education, I am vehemently opposed to his continued push for yet another job-killing trade deal. The secretive Trans-Pacific Partnership would be a disaster for U.S. jobs, not to mention for the environment, prescription drug prices and worker protections. I have opposed every free trade agreement, including NAFTA, because despite promises to the contrary, they ultimately lead to more jobs shipped overseas.” ###
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, members of the Oregon Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy encouraging the Obama Administration to use a portion of the federal funds allocated for dredging at Oregon’s ports. Representatives Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader and Suzanne Bonamici, along with Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, urged the Administration to make these investments to keep our ports open and safe, and to ensure Oregon’s coastal communities are able to thrive. “Safe, navigable Oregon ports enhance regional and local economic development and support local job growth. In fact, one out of every six Oregon jobs is directly or indirectly tied to cargo, recreation, industrial, commercial or other activities at Oregon’s ports. These jobs contribute over $4.5 billion in wages to the state’s economy thereby helping thousands of working Oregon families maintain a good quality of life,” the members wrote. In 2014, Congress allocated $329,500,000 to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for Operations and Maintenance activities at Corps-authorized projects – including $42,500,000 for small ports. In the letter, they ask the Administration to use a portion of this funding to ensure that Oregon’s coastal ports receive the dredging dollars they need. A copy of the letter is included below. January 16, 2015 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army – Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: Congress allocated $329,500,000 (including $42,500,000 for small ports) to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the FY2015 Omnibus Appropriations Bill for Operations and Maintenance (O&M) activities at Corps-authorized projects – including small ports – that were not included in the Administration’s request. We are writing to encourage you to use a portion of this funding to ensure that Oregon’s coastal ports receive the dredging dollars they need. Oregon’s ports are heavily impacted by severe Pacific storm fronts and strong fluvial runoff that inundate these ports with sediment. Consequently, they require ongoing maintenance dredging to ensure they are safe and operational. Simply put, many of Oregon’s ports and harbors, which are the lifeblood of Oregon’s coastal communities, would not exist if not for regular maintenance dredging. Safe, navigable Oregon ports enhance regional and local economic development and support local job growth. In fact, one out of every six Oregon jobs is directly or indirectly tied to cargo, recreation, industrial, commercial or other activities at Oregon’s ports. These jobs contribute over $4.5 billion in wages to the state’s economy thereby helping thousands of working Oregon families maintain a good quality of life. Oregon ports also support Federal agency activities, such as the U.S. Coast Guard and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Oregon’s coastal ports have long been underfunded. To make matters worse, many of these ports and harbors have been “zeroed out” in the Administration’s budget request to Congress. This is why the Oregon delegation fought to include a provision in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) specifying that ten percent of annual Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) revenue be used for dredging and jetty maintenance at ports and harbors that transport less than 1,000,000 tons of commerce annually. But more work and investment are needed. Thank you for your consideration of this urgent request. These federal funds are essential to keep our ports open and safe, and to ensure Oregon’s coastal communities are able to thrive. Sincerely, Ron Wyden Jeff Merkley U.S. Senator U.S. Senator Peter DeFazio Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Member of Congress Kurt Schrader Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, and Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced bipartisan legislation to allow physicians full access to the most up-to-date educational materials like textbooks and journals so they may deliver the best care. The Protect Continuing Physician Education and Patient Care Act, H.R. 293, is in response to the Physician Payment Sunshine Act’s unintended consequence of over-burdensome reporting requirements that made access to educational materials for physicians difficult to obtain. The Sunshine Act was intended to make payments to physicians more transparent. The bill, which was a part of the Affordable Care Act, included 12 specific exclusions from the reporting requirement in order to ensure that medical practices and patient care would not be harmed. But in recent rules, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) determined that both continuing medical education events and the distribution of medical textbooks and peer-reviewed journals were subject to reporting, making them less accessible to physicians. This bill will minimize the negative impacts of the Sunshine Act by making these important materials exempt from reporting requirements. “As someone who practiced medicine for nearly 30 years, I can attest that the assessments, treatments and procedures I learned in medical school were outdated by the end of my career with new advances in medicine,” Burgess said. “As doctors, we are constantly studying new treatments and learning about new illnesses that did not exist even a few years ago. Without access to these materials, it could mean the difference between life and death of our patients. As a physician, I cannot allow that to happen. Our bill ensures it doesn’t have to.” “This bipartisan bill is about putting patients first,” DeFazio said. “While the Sunshine Act that Congress passed in 2010 is an absolutely essential tool to shine the light on the relationship between the pharmaceutical companies and physicians, our bill ensures the Sunshine Act won’t restrict a physician’s access to the latest medical research and training. This common sense fix is a win for America’s doctors and continuing medical education, but most importantly, for patients.” The Protect Continuing Physician Education and Patient Care Act has been supported by 128 different organizations. “Specialty physicians depend on the latest medical journals and peer-reviewed data to ensure quality care and positive patient outcomes, Dr. Alex Valadka from the Alliance of Specialty Medicine said. “We thank Congressman Burgess for introducing legislation to ensure that the Affordable Care Act will not hamper access to independent educational materials, which clearly benefit the patients we treat.” ###
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C.--Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted the House Republican Leadership for passing legislation that bypasses federal agencies to allow construction on the controversial Keystone XL pipeline. DeFazio helped lead Democratic opposition to the controversial legislation, which has been considered by the House ten times. “Under this legislation, TransCanada gets the profits; they pay nothing into the spill recovery Trust Fund; the American people get the bill if there’s a spill; and the rights of individual Americans to access the legal system are limited – all to benefit a foreign company. Welcome, to the new Republican Congress, America,” said DeFazio. Like the last Keystone bill Congress considered, this legislation fails to require TransCanada, a foreign company, to pay an excise tax that all other oil and pipeline companies are required to pay to help finance an Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund that helps cover the costs of cleaning up oil spills. Democrats tried to amend the bill to force TransCanada to contribute to the spill fund like every U.S. oil and pipeline company, but Republicans rejected the measure. The legislation would pave the way for the Canadian corporation to use eminent domain, to begin seizing private property if the landowner is unwilling to sell to TransCanada. DeFazio highlighted a letter in which TransCanada threatens that they will “commence the legal process of eminent domain to obtain [the land],” from landowners unwilling to sell. “I do find it particularly ironic that today, on the same day that the House read the Constitution, Republicans passed a bill that would give a foreign corporation the right to take private property from American citizens. I’m not aware of any other time, that Congress has voted to give a foreign entity the right to take the private property of a U.S. citizen,” said DeFazio. The bill ignores the major environmental risks associated with tar sands oil and the pipeline—including increased carbon pollution, depredation of natural resources, and the potential for catastrophic spills. In Canada, irreplaceable, boreal forests and water resources are being destroyed in order to extract the oil. Tar sands oil emits 81 percent more greenhouse gas than average crude, reversing carbon pollution reductions and environmental and safety improvements achieved in the United States. ###
01.09.2015	Washington, DC- University of Oregon alumnus Rep. Peter DeFazio and Ohio Congressman Tim Ryan today placed a friendly bet on the 2015 College Football Playoff National Championship game. If the University of Oregon captures its first national title Monday night, Rep. Ryan agreed to give DeFazio a gallon of famous Jeni’s Splendid Ice Cream from Columbus, Ohio. If The Ohio State University wins, Rep. DeFazio agreed to give Ryan a bottle of Oregon pinot noir. The two Congressmen will appear together before the National Championship Game on MSNBC’s Ed Show Monday, January 12, to discuss their wager during the 5pm ET/2pm PT hour. “Ohio State has a great program, but as we just saw in the Rose Bowl, Oregon is at the very top of its game right now. This team is fast, well-coached and lead on the field by Heisman Trophy winner Marcus Mariota. I predict Monday night will be extra sweet as I celebrate Oregon’s national title along with a bowl of Ohio ice cream,” Rep. DeFazio said. “I am excited to see the Ohio State Buckeyes take on the Oregon Ducks to decide the National Championship. Urban Meyer, the Ohio State coaching staff and players have proven they are in the top echelon of college football and I am confident on Monday the Buckeyes will bring their 8th National Championship title home to Columbus. I look forward to drinking a celebratory glass of Oregon wine Monday night,” Rep. Ryan said. Go Ducks! ###
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Erik Paulsen (MN-03) and Richard Neal (MA-01) today led a bipartisan group of Members in introducing legislation to reduce the tax burden on America’s small brewers. Joining Paulsen and Neal in the introduction of the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce (BREW) Act were Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Rep. Patrick McHenry (NC-10), and Rep. Patrick Meehan (PA-07). The bill reduces the excise taxes on the sale of the first 2 million barrels of beer sold by small brewers each year. “The rise in the popularity of craft brewing is a quintessential American success story,” said Paulsen. “Many of these brewers start out enjoying a hobby, but end up growing businesses that create jobs and provide a product that people enjoy. The tax code needs to catch up to the nature of the brewing industry and not penalize the nation’s small brewers.” "As someone who represents many small brewers in Massachusetts, I can attest that craft breweries are locally owned, generate economic development and create good jobs” said Congressman Neal. “They also make distinctive products for passionate consumers. I have been a vigorous supporter of the industry, and today, in a bipartisan manner, we are introducing legislation that gives these small brewers a substantial tax break. Our bill rightfully recalibrates the beer excise tax for America's craft brewers, allowing them to grow and reinvest in their businesses. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this initiative approved by the House of Representatives during this session of Congress." “Small brewers have an outsized impact on Oregon’s economy, with hundreds of craft breweries, and thousands of employees,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “It’s no surprise that with great hops, pure water, and Oregon’s local ethic, Oregon brewers produce some of the finest beers around. I’m proud to support them with the Small BREW Act and reduce their tax burden as they are starting out.” “Our nation’s burgeoning craft brewing industry is a testament to the strength and importance of small business,” said Congressman DeFazio. “In my district alone, there are more than two dozen craft breweries. Each one contributes to the local economy, which is why I’m happy to advocate for policies that allow small business owners to flourish, create jobs and continue making great beer. In the end, we all win.” “Small brewers – long an important part of American culture and history – have enjoyed a tremendous growth in popularity in recent years,” said Congressman Meehan. “But while our brewing industry has evolved, our tax code hasn’t evolved with it. Outmoded federal excise taxes inhibit the growth of small brewers and make it harder for fledgling businesses to survive and prosper. This legislation will ease the tax burden on small brewers like Victory Brewing in Pennsylvania and help them expand and create jobs.” The text of the Small BREW Act is available here. ###
01.07.2015	Washington, DC- In a speech on the House Floor today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) praised the passage of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici’s bipartisan Tsunami Warning, Education, and Research Act, highlighting how the bill will help Oregon’s coastal residents prepare for a tsunami and better protect their lives and property. He also called for increased investment in the West Coast Early Warning System with offshore technology. This effort is supported by West Coast research facilities, including the University of Oregon, as it would begin to bring U.S. early warning capabilities on par with other nations. (See Rep. DeFazio’s Floor Speech here.) The bill was among the first pieces of legislation passed by the 114th Congress. It comes just two weeks after the 10th anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami in the Indian Ocean that killed more than 200,000 people and devastated communities in more than a dozen countries in Southeast Asia. The legislation will update the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) tsunami detection, warning, research, and mitigation system and support community-specific outreach and hazard resilience planning. Rep. DeFazio, who represents Oregon’s Southern Coast, is an original cosponsor of the Rep. Bonamici’s bill. “Whether you live, work or take trips on the Oregon coast, we all have a stake in preparing our communities for major events such as a tsunami by improving local coordination and updating the technology,” Congressman DeFazio said. “There is no excuse for the U.S. to lag so far behind the rest of the world when it comes to protecting our coastlines. I’m proud to support this bill because it’s another step toward saving lives and mitigating disaster.” After passing unanimously in the House, H.R. 34 now moves to the Senate for further consideration. ###
12.31.2014	Washington, DC- Three leading House Democratic lawmakers called on Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH) to use regular order for consideration of controversial legislation to approve construction of TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline. In a letter sent yesterday, Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), and Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), ranking members-elect on the House Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and Commerce, and Natural Resources, respectively, urged Boehner not to bypass committee process to force a premature vote on an issue of such magnitude. The three committees have jurisdiction over Keystone XL pipeline legislation. “It is our understanding that you may schedule the House of Representatives to vote on a bill to approve TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline during the first two weeks of the 114th Congress. Given the magnitude of this issue, we urge you not to bypass the committee process and regular order for consideration of this controversial legislation. This past November, 61 new Members of Congress were elected by the American people to represent their interests in the House. These new Members, and in fact all Members of the House, should have the opportunity to consider, debate, and propose their own ideas on this legislation through committee hearings and markups, before it is scheduled for House Floor consideration,” the members write. Additionally, the members highlight several key issues with the Keystone XL pipeline that should postpone any premature legislative action. The proposed route was declared null and void by the Nebraska District Court in February 2014. If Congress considers legislation in the next few weeks, Members of Congress would be asked to vote for approval without knowledge of the route. The members also highlight the need to evaluate potential economic impacts of the pipeline. The letter cites a December 2014 petroleum marketing report issued by the Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy, which found that crude oil prices in the U.S. are the lowest they have been since 2010. The significant decrease in the price of gasoline in the United States illustrates the changed circumstances. The letter requests that the House has an opportunity to learn more about these changed circumstances as they weigh the economic costs and benefits of the pipeline. In addition, the letter asks that new and returning Members of Congress have the ability to debate the short- and long-term effects of approving a project that could reverse the carbon pollution reductions and environmental and safety improvements achieved in the United States. The letter adds, “Mr. Speaker, a new Congress represents new beginnings. We urge you to use this opportunity to recommit to the value of thoughtful deliberation. We urge you not to bypass the committee process and regular order for consideration of this controversial legislation.” A copy of the letter is below. December 30, 2014 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker of the House H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker: It is our understanding that you may schedule the House of Representatives to vote on a bill to approve TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline during the first two weeks of the 114th Congress. Given the magnitude of this issue, we urge you not to bypass the committee process and regular order for consideration of this controversial legislation. This past November, 61 new Members of Congress were elected by the American people to represent their interests in the House. These new Members, and in fact all Members of the House, should have the opportunity to consider, debate, and propose their own ideas on this legislation through committee hearings and markups, before it is scheduled for House Floor consideration. Moreover, the bill should be subject to a rule allowing for an open amendment process on the Floor. While past congresses have debated legislation to approve the pipeline, this new Congress has not had the opportunity to be a part of the process, a process that the Republican Leadership has vowed to uphold. Just five months ago, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy published an op-ed in the Washington Post promising, on the first day of his new job, to return to the committee process and regular order. He stated: “In Congress, committees act as idea factories for policies from both sides, and as majority leader I will commit to the committee process and regular order.” He added a renewed commitment to work with Members on both sides of the aisle to pass legislation, stating “…a sense of mutual respect is necessary for constructive dialogue.” We urge you to uphold this commitment. In addition, we believe the committee process will provide Members with new information that has come to light since Congress previously considered Keystone XL legislation. First, the proposed route of the Keystone XL pipeline remains unclear in the state of Nebraska. In February 2014, the Nebraska District Court declared that the Nebraska Governor’s Keystone XL pipeline siting decision violated the Nebraska Constitution and, as such, the proposed route was null and void. The Nebraska Supreme Court is considering this issue on appeal and is expected to issue its decision in the coming weeks. We hope that we can all agree that Members of Congress deserve to know the route of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline prior to casting a vote on whether to approve it. Second, over the past five years, production of crude oil in the United States has skyrocketed. As a result of this increased production, together with tempered global demand, crude oil prices have fallen precipitously. According to a December 2014 petroleum marketing report issued by the Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy, crude oil prices in the U.S. are the lowest they have been since 2010. The significant decrease in the price of gasoline in the United States illustrates the changed circumstances. On December 22, AAA announced that gasoline prices declined for a record 88 days straight and 85 cents per gallon in the last year. Members of Congress should have an opportunity to learn more about these changed circumstances as they weigh the costs and benefits of TransCanada’s proposed Keystone XL pipeline. Third, expansion of oil sands production in Canada, with or without the Keystone XL pipeline, is now uncertain. Alternative transportation methods have raised considerable challenges for producers, and a number of pipeline expansion projects have been halted due to significant opposition in the U.S. and Canada. While the Keystone XL pipeline continues to be the producers’ preferred option for the delivery of oil sands, concerns regarding carbon pollution, impacts on natural resources and land use, and safety remain. New and returning Members of Congress should have the right to debate the short- and long-term effects of approving a project that could reverse the carbon pollution reductions and environmental and safety improvements that we have worked so hard to achieve in the United States. Mr. Speaker, a new Congress represents new beginnings. We urge you to use this opportunity to recommit to the value of thoughtful deliberation. We urge you not to bypass the committee process and regular order for consideration of this controversial legislation. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, PETER A. DEFAZIO FRANK PALLONE, JR. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA Ranking Member-Elect Ranking Member-Elect Ranking Member-Elect Committee on Transportation Committee on Energy Committee on and Infrastructure and Commerce Natural Resources cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader The Honorable Kevin McCarthy, Majority Leader The Honorable Steny H. Hoyer, Democratic Whip The Honorable Bill Shuster, Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure The Honorable Fred Upton, Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce The Honorable Rob Bishop, Chairman-Elect, Committee on Natural Resources ###
12.24.2014	Washington, DC- Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Greg Walden have called on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to delay a rule – scheduled to take effect next month - that could have a devastating impact on emergency medical services in rural communities across Oregon. In the letter to CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner, Reps. DeFazio and Walden brought attention to a possible technical error that reduces reimbursement rates to ambulance providers by reclassifying some rural areas as urban. Reducing these rates makes it very difficult for ambulance providers to serve rural communities without losing money. DeFazio and Walden have requested that CMS delay any reimbursement changes for one year so errors can be identified and ambulance providers have sufficient time to prepare for changes. The letter from DeFazio and Walden states: “These payments allow ambulance services in rural areas to continue providing life-saving and life-sustaining services. We agree that as population demographics change over time, the designation of rural status should be updated. However, it is critically important that ambulance services, whose margins are on average negative without the add-ons, be given sufficient time to prepare for a change that could reduce their overall Medicare revenues by as much as 9 percent.” The full letter to CMS is below. December 23, 2014 Marilyn Tavenner Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Administrator Tavenner, We are writing to express our concern about the Final Ambulance Fee Schedule for Calendar Year 2015, and the devastating impact it will have on rural transports in our state and across the country. We are particularly concerned about the final changes to the designation of ambulance service from “rural” to “urban.” In the preamble to the proposed rule, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) indicated that only 122 ZIP codes (less than 0.3 percent) would change from rural to urban. Subsequently, in the final rule, issued in the Federal Register on November 13, the Agency indicated that the status of more than 3,000 ZIP codes would switch from rural to urban. This drastic change was alarming to our local ambulances due to the severe cut they would face come January 2015. Following inquiries from local stakeholders and concerned Members of Congress, the Agency found a technical error in its calculations and issued a revised list of ZIP codes that would change from rural to urban. As a result about 1,500 zip codes that would have changed to urban will remain rural. While we appreciate the effort the Agency put into making these updates, we are still concerned that rural ambulances in the remaining 1,600 ZIP codes still do not have adequate time to prepare for the change. In addition, we did not see any formal communication by CMS notifying ambulance service providers of the revised list. So while we are aware of it, a vast majority of ambulance services providers likely are not. It is crucial that ambulance service providers, especially those in the affected areas, be notified of such a significant change well prior to implementation. We also believe that some of these ZIP codes may still be incorrectly designated as urban. For example, in Josephine County, Oregon, there are five ZIP codes identified as urban even though the population did not change significantly in those ZIP codes and apparently changed only because neighboring Grants Pass was designated as a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA). Additionally, as Members of Congress representing Josephine County, our experiences with local economies and demographics lead us to question this urban designation. We do not know if this mistake is due to a technical error or an unfitting definition of “urban,” but we do believe that the designation is incorrect and further time is needed to assess these changes. The designation of rural status is extremely important to ambulance services. The GAO has recognized in two reports that the current Medicare rates without the add-ons reimburse ambulance services below the costs they incur to provide care. Congress has consistently recognized the need to increase the current payment rates, especially for rural ambulance services, through the extension of the ambulance add-ons. These payments allow ambulance services in rural areas to continue providing life-saving and life-sustaining services. We agree that as population demographics change over time, the designation of rural status should be updated. However, it is critically important that ambulance services, whose margins are on average negative without the add-ons, be given sufficient time to prepare for a change that could reduce their overall Medicare revenues by as much as 9 percent. CMS has simply not provided sufficient notice for the change to take effect in Calendar Year 2015. We appreciate that CMS believes that stakeholders would have had access to the data necessary to determine the impact of the proposed change and that the Agency revised the change for 1,500 ZIP codes. However, the preamble to the proposed rule was misleading at best. Any provider or supplier that took the Agency at its word would have seen no need to engage in further analysis of the proposal because the preamble clearly stated there would be no change in the status of rural providers or suppliers. Therefore, we strongly urge you to delay implementation of the changes for those zip codes which would switch from rural to urban until Calendar Year 2016. This delay will allow CMS and other stakeholders to assess the changes and make sure that the changes are indeed appropriate. Additionally, it will provide a path for ambulance service providers and suppliers to adjust to the changes from rural and urban status if that change is found to be warranted. Access to ambulances can be the difference between life and death in rural areas. It is crucial to protect beneficiary access to ambulance services, which are a critical component of our health care system. We look forward to working with you on this issue and thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, _________________________________ Peter DeFazio Member of Congress _________________________________ Greg Walden Member of Congress ###
12.18.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has awarded a grant totaling $1,636,645 to Kids & Company of Linn County. Congressman DeFazio strongly supports Head Start programs such as Kids & Company of Linn County, which ensure that children get the support and resources they need to succeed in the classroom. “Study after study confirms just how important early childhood education, nutrition, healthcare and family support services are for our nation's youth,” DeFazio said. “I've had the opportunity to visit a number of Head Start programs and it's easy to see what a valuable difference they make in children's lives. The programs are good for families, for communities and ultimately, the U.S. economy, which benefits from educated and healthy citizens.” In addition to Head Start, Congressman DeFazio supports increased federal funding for programs such as the Childcare Development Block Grant, and the Individuals with Disabilities (IDEA) Infants and Families and Preschool grants. ###
12.12.2014	Washington, DC- On Thursday, December 11, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement after voting no on H.R. 83, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015, legislation to fund the government through the end of fiscal year 2015. “Only six years after reckless Wall Street gambling nearly brought the U.S. economy to its knees, some of my colleagues in Congress just voted to give Wall Street an early Christmas present. By repealing a key provision of Dodd-Frank as part of the so-called CROmnibus, this Republican-led House will open the door to Wall Street gambling with taxpayers covering the losses, the very same behavior by Wall Street that tanked our economy in 2008. This Congress demonstrated that it is working for the richest and most powerful citizens, and has no interest in protecting regular people from the reckless ways of Wall Street. This is an insult and an injustice to the millions of Americans who were hammered by the financial collapse. Another provision in the bill increasing campaign contribution limits enables the Wall Street robber barons to buy even greater access, further underscoring the misplaced priorities of this Congress. “As if favors for the rich and powerful weren’t enough, this bill actually punishes low-income Americans by slashing the Pell grants that make a college education and a shot at the middle class possible. The bill also underfunds critical transportation investments, which we should be using to spur economic development and put hundreds of thousands of Americans back to work. “I am also extremely disappointed that an extension of vital Secure Rural Schools payments was not included in this package. This is devastating for Oregon’s timber-dependent counties on the brink of financial disaster. SRS is a critical lifeline that has kept sheriff’s deputies on patrol and dangerous criminals in jail. Extending SRS must be a top priority when Congress reconvenes in January, and I will work with the delegation to ensure SRS is extended so our counties remain solvent.” ###
12.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Following their repeated calls to ensure the safety of residents in coastal areas, Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Representatives Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, Earl Blumenauer and Suzanne Bonamici today announced the Congress has passed legislation that will keep the U.S. Coast Guard’s air facility at Newport open through the coming year. The Oregon lawmakers worked to include language in the Coast Guard reauthorization bill that would keep the Coast Guard’s air stations open through January 1, 2016—including the Newport facility. The Senate passed the short-term Coast Guard reauthorization bill earlier today, and the House of Representatives passed it tonight. “This bill buys us some much-needed time to keep fighting for Newport, for the air facility and for the continued safety of residents living and working along the Oregon coast,” Wyden said. “I will continue working with my Oregon colleagues to pursue every avenue to keep this facility in Newport.” “The passage of this bill is a literal lifesaver for our coastal communities,” Merkley said. “It’s essential to the safety of fishermen, recreational boaters, and tourists on our coast that we have lifesaving facilities nearby when the distress call comes. This is a huge win for the safety of our communities and the health of our economy. I’m determined to keep the Newport helicopter right where it belongs: in Newport.” “It is impossible to understate how critical this air station is not only to the hardworking men and women of Oregon’s fishing industry, but for all coastal visitors and residents,” DeFazio said. “While I’m encouraged that the Oregon delegation was able to keep the lights on for one more year in Newport, clearly we will need to keep up the fight in the coming months in order to ensure a permanent resolution.” “I know folks often get frustrated with Washington, DC for not getting things done that matter to them,” Schrader said. “But this critical safety issue on our coast is an example of how a community, working with its elected officials can really make a difference, just like we did with NOAA and get something done. I’m proud to be on a team with my colleagues in the House and Senate to make sure this helicopter remains in Newport.” “The Newport Coast Guard Air Facility is critical to the safety and security of a key region of Oregon’s coastal economy,” Blumenauer said. “Closing this facility will harm Oregon’s tourism, research, and fishing industries and create longer response times in life or death situations.” “Without this helicopter, far too many Oregonians who earn a living on our coast or enjoy its beautiful beaches would be at risk,” Bonamici said. "I’m glad to see that the air facility and its helicopter will remain in Newport for the next year, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on a permanent solution.” In a letter last month, the Oregon lawmakers, along with South Carolina Senators Tim Scott, R-S.C. and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Representatives Mark Sanford, R-S.C., and Tom Rice, R-S.C., and Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., urged the Department of Homeland Security to reverse the Coast Guard’s decision. This letter came on the heels of a letter that Oregon lawmakers sent to the Commandant of the Coast Guard urging him to keep the helicopter in Newport. While the Coast Guard claims that it would still be able to meet the national standard of a two-hour search-and-rescue response time, local fishermen and Central Coast residents who depend on the rescue helicopters say first-hand experience shows that closure of the base will lengthen response times and threaten the safety of local mariners. Newport houses National Oceanic and Atmospheric vessels and Oregon’s largest commercial fishing fleet, in addition to research vessels from Oregon State University. In response to repeated calls from Oregon lawmakers, the Coast Guard announced it would delay the December 1 closure of the Newport facility until December 15. ###
12.09.2014	Washington, DC- Today, the House passed legislation from Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR), that would consolidate tribal lands and eliminate bureaucratic red tape for Western Oregon tribes. The DeFazio legislation, the Western Oregon Indian Tribal Lands Act (H.R. 5701), establishes land bases for the Coos and Cow Creek tribes and gives the Coquille Tribe the same forest management authority that all other tribes have across the nation. The legislation also streamlines federal rules to eliminate unnecessary delays that have unfairly burdened the Siletz and Grand Ronde tribes when dealing with the Department of the Interior. “For too long, federal policies have unfairly disadvantaged Indian tribes in Western Oregon. Chaotic federal policy has deprived Oregon tribes of their land bases, diminished a tribe’s sovereignty over its forest, and created unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles for tribes dealing with federal agencies. This legislation is a long overdue, common sense bill that will go a long way in helping resolve some of the problems the Federal government and its haphazard policy shifts have created for the Western Oregon tribes. Passing this unique, Oregon specific tribal package is a big deal for Oregon Indian Country and I am hopeful that Senators Wyden and Merkley can quickly pass it in the Senate before the close of session,” said DeFazio. (Video of Rep. DeFazio’s House floor speech here.) BACKGROUND H.R. 5701, the Western Oregon Indian Tribal Lands Act, is a long overdue, no-cost, common sense, bill that will go a long way to helping resolve some of the problems the Federal government and its haphazard policy shifts have created for the Western Oregon tribes. This package also enjoys bipartisan, bicameral support. This legislation clarifies on-reservation land-into-trust procedures for the Grand Ronde and Siletz Tribes so the tribes don’t have to face egregious delays in dealing with the Department of the Interior. The bill also makes good on decades-old promises to restore land bases for the Coos and Cow Creek Tribes, and it puts the Coquille Tribe’s forest on equal footing with those of other Indian tribes nation-wide. ###
12.03.2014	Washington, DC- Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced the inclusion of several critical Oregon-focused bills in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). A package of natural resources measures was included in the NDAA after negotiations involving the Chairs and Ranking Members of the House Natural Resources and Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committees in an effort to clear a years-long backlog. In addition to provisions sponsored by more than two dozen of his House Democratic colleagues, DeFazio secured the inclusion of the REFI Act, legislation that will save West Coast fishermen millions of dollars by refinancing expensive, high-interest federal loans. DeFazio also included legislation to expand the Oregon Caves National Monument which will boost Southwest Oregon’s economy, and increase tourism and the recreation economy in the area. The NDAA is expected to be approved by the House later this week. REFI DeFazio was able to add the bipartisan H.R. 2646, the REFI Act, to NDAA. DeFazio has been working for five years on the issue, and first sparked interest in refinancing unfair government “pay day” loans to West Coast fishermen with a letter to the Secretary of Commerce in 2009. DeFazio helped draft H.R. 2646, is an original co-sponsor, and earlier this year offered the bill as an amendment to Magnuson-Stevens legislation. H.R. 2646 is sponsored by Representatives Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) and Jared Huffman (D-CA). “The West Coast buyback loan has been an albatross around fishermen’s necks. Fishermen have been charged an excessively high interest rate and the tab skyrocketed after their repayment plan was delayed through no fault of their own. The original terms of the loan were bad and implementation was worse. The passage of this bill will allow the fishermen to refinance, save money, and keep the fishery competitive—and the American taxpayers will get a fair shake. This is great news for the entire West Coast. After five years of hard work, I am grateful that it was included in the NDAA authorization to get it across the finish line,” said DeFazio. Oregon Trawl Commission Director Brad Pettinger, who testified before the House Natural Resources Committee in April in support of the REFI Act, commended DeFazio for his work to pass this legislation. “I want to thank the entire Northwest Delegation for this bipartisan effort to help West Coast fishermen and their families. This is a big deal. In particular, I want to single out Peter DeFazio. His tireless efforts and advocacy for our fishermen has made the difference in getting this legislation – this relief – through Congress. We are grateful for his leadership,” said Pettinger. Additional background on REFI can be found here. OREGON CAVES DeFazio also secured legislation that will expand the Oregon Caves National Monument, which will boost the local economy with additional tourist dollars and create needed jobs in southern Oregon. The legislation, pushed by DeFazio and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), expands the Oregon Caves National Monument by 4,070 acres and designates the River Styx –the underground stream running through Oregon Caves- as the first subterranean Wild and Scenic River in the nation. The expansion will also allow for additional activities, including hiking and other recreational opportunities. “The Oregon Caves National Monument is a special place that pumps millions of dollars into the local economy. This expansion will ensure we protect this incredible caves system, from the rustic and charming 1930s Chateau, to the miles of trails with unforgettable views of the Siskiyou Mountains. This legislation will expand the monument to attract more visitors and support local businesses, and protect the first underground river under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. I congratulate the more than fifty local businesses, and the community members who worked so hard on this expansion,” said DeFazio. More than 70,000 tourists visit Oregon Caves each year, generating $4.8 million in local revenues and supporting 70 local jobs in economically hard-hit Josephine County and Cave Junction. Additional background can be found here. ###
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell, requesting that he stop a coyote and wolf hunting derby planned on public National Forest System (NFS) lands until proper environmental analysis can determine the impact on gray wolf populations. Last December, a group called “Idaho for Wildlife” organized a two-day Coyote and Wolf Derby, with prize money for the largest wolf killed. Unlike the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the Forest Service did not require a permit or environmental review before allowing the sport killing on public lands. “I urge the Forest Service to require the organizers of the aforementioned killing contest to apply for a special use permit or other permit before considering whether the contest should take place on NFS land, as the BLM has required for the same activity on land it manages. I also urge the Forest Service to prohibit the event from taking place on NFS land this year, to ensure there is time to conduct an Environmental Impact Statement of the event and permit application,” DeFazio writes. In 2013, despite the fact that much of the derby was to occur within the NFS, the Forest Service determined that the contest was not a commercial event and that no special use permit was required. In his letter, DeFazio questions that determination and asks that Tidwell revisit it. The Federal government has spent millions of dollars to recover wolf populations in the United States, and DeFazio has repeatedly question the rationale for allowing Federal lands and resources to be used to once again decimate the species. Last week, the Department of the Interior’s BLM revoked a special use permit it had issued to Idaho for Wildlife to conduct the killing Derby on BLM land because the agency’s Environmental Assessment (EA) of the permit was inadequate. The BLM has determined that the event requires a permit and also warrants development of a thorough environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act to assist in evaluating the permit application. DeFazio’s letter can be found below. December 2, 2014 The Honorable Tom Tidwell Chief United States Forest Service 1400 Independence Ave. Washington, DC 20250 Dear Chief Tidwell: I am writing today to express serious concerns about the U.S. Forest Service’s stewardship of wildlife resources on lands under the Committee’s jurisdiction. Last December, a group called “Idaho for Wildlife” organized a two-day Coyote and Wolf Derby, with separate prize money for the largest wolf killed. Despite the fact that much of the hunting was to occur within the National Forest System (NFS), the Forest Service determined that the contest was not a commercial event occurring on NFS land, and, therefore, no special use permit was required. This determination was questionable at the time, and I ask that you revisit it in light of recent events. Specifically, the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM) recently revoked a special use permit it had issued to Idaho for Wildlife to conduct the killing Derby on BLM land because the agency’s Environmental Assessment (EA) of the permit was inadequate. BLM’s experience shows not only that such an activity require a permit, but also that it warrants development of a thorough environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to assist in evaluating the permit application. I urge the Forest Service to require the organizers of the aforementioned killing contest to apply for a special use permit or other permit before considering whether the contest should take place on NFS land, as the BLM has required for the same activity on land it manages. I also urge the Forest Service to prohibit the event from taking place on NFS land this year, to ensure there is time to conduct an Environmental Impact Statement of the event and permit application. Thank you for your attention to this matter. If you have questions, please contact Matt Strickler on the House Natural Resources Committee Democratic Staff at (202) 225-6065. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Ranking Member House Committee on Natural Resources
11.19.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement after his selection as Ranking Member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee in the 114th Congress: “For far too long, Congress has taken the easy way out when it comes to investing in our nation’s transportation infrastructure, relying on short-term patches for long-standing problems. But we can’t afford to merely kick the can down the road yet again. We are approaching a critical juncture concerning transportation issues in our country, and with that in mind, I am especially honored to have the strong support of my colleagues to lead the caucus as the new Ranking Member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “While the jurisdiction of the Committee includes areas of great importance to my home state of Oregon - including the Coast Guard, highways and transit, water resources, railroads, aviation and economic development – every state and territory in our country is profoundly affected by the decisions made in this committee. After all, transportation infrastructure is at the heart of the U.S. economy. Our communities and our businesses, both big and small, depend on safe and efficient roads, rails, ports, planes, pipelines and mass transit. Millions of American jobs are directly tied to infrastructure. It is not acceptable to keep shortchanging future generations by allowing our infrastructure to deteriorate to third world status. There are nearly 150,000 structurally deficient and functionally obsolete bridges on our roads today; trucks are being rerouted because of weight restrictions; and people are wasting time and gasoline in traffic. The U.S. must do better. “As Ranking Member, I will be a tireless advocate for the kind of infrastructure investment that results in job creation, increased efficiency and strategic growth. Two key vehicles for this investment include the Federal Aviation Administration and surface transportation authorization bills, both of which I plan to tackle immediately in a bipartisan fashion with Chairman Bill Shuster. Together, we can lay the groundwork for infrastructure investment that delivers for generations to come. “As I take this position, I’d like to thank Congressman Nick Rahall of West Virginia for his leadership and 38 years of service to this committee and our country. I look forward to continuing his legacy of bipartisanship by working closely with all members of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee.” BACKGROUND Both the Steering and Policy Committee and the Democratic Caucus voted unanimously today to recommend DeFazio for the Ranking Member position. DeFazio has served as a member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee since he first entered Congress in 1987. During his time on the Committee, he has served as Chairman or Ranking member of four of the six subcommittees: Aviation, Coast Guard, Highways and Transit, and Water Resources and Environment. DeFazio has taken a lead role on several multi-billion dollar surface transportation and FAA reauthorization bills, and worked to strengthen Buy America standards. Earlier this year, DeFazio served as a conferee to reconcile difference between the House and Senate versions of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, where he successfully secured funding for America’s small ports. DeFazio currently serves as the Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, where he advocates for the economic security and sustainability of rural communities in Oregon and across the U.S., offers common-sense solutions to promote forest health and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and champions legislation to protect some of the country’s most incredible natural treasures. ###
11.06.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) has awarded a $100,000 grant to mAbDx Inc., an early stage Eugene-based technology firm founded by former University of Oregon science researcher, Michael Marusich, Ph.D. The company is on the forefront of biomarker research and immunoassay development and conducting several important projects, ranging from aquaculture to cancer research. (Read more about mAbDx here.) This grant supports efforts to provide Northwest hatchery managers real-time feedback to prevent shellfish losses and is part of a larger $18 million program NIFA awards to small businesses nationwide through its Small Business Innovation Research program (SBIR). Winners are identified as having high-quality, advanced research and development that will lead to technological innovations and solutions for American agriculture. Prior to founding mAbDx, Marusich co-founded MitoSciences, another UO spinout company and the leading developer of anti-mitochondrial antibodies, mitochondrial assays, and products and services for mitochondrial toxicity screening. MitoSciences and mabDx were incubated in the UO’s Riverfront Research Park. “Small businesses like mAbDx Inc. are integral to developing the groundbreaking research that makes America a global academic leader and an economic powerhouse,” Rep. DeFazio said. “I am proud to support our nation’s innovators, and I’m especially proud to see this kind of work associated with the University of Oregon and Oregon State University. Our research universities play a critical role in spurring innovation.” “We congratulate mAbDx on this well-deserved grant, which will help Dr. Marusich’s second startup company take groundbreaking discoveries from our region to the next level,” said Charles Williams, the UO’s associate vice president for innovation. “The collaboration between Dr. Marusich and OSU on this SBIR is further evidence that the South Willamette Valley offers a robust regional community where locally developed innovations and UO spinout companies like mAbDx can succeed, contributing to the economic vitality of Oregon, the United States, and global society,” Williams added. Housed in a private, custom-built biotechnology lab in the Lewis Integrative Science Building at the University of Oregon as part of company incubator space sponsored in part by Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI), mAbDx will conduct work on a rapid simple test to detect bacterial contamination in shellfish hatcheries. “OSU applauds mAbDx for winning this highly competitive award from NIFA, and we are excited to continue our partnership with this company through Dr. Mark Leid in our College of Pharmacy and Dr. Claudia Hase in the College of Veterinary Medicine,” said Brian Wall, assistant vice president for research, commercialization, and industry partnerships for Oregon State University. “Through the OSU Advantage, we are allocating an additional $10,000 in support of this important work at OSU to ultimately provide Northwest hatchery managers real-time feedback to prevent shellfish losses.” Since 1983, the SBIR program has awarded more than 2,000 research and development grants to American-owned, independently operated, for-profit businesses with 500 employees or fewer. UO and OSU support projects at university-related start-up companies like mAbDx through the University Venture Development Fund (UVDF), a state supported program stimulating donor giving to innovation and research efforts. The Oregon Legislature will consider renewal of the UVDF during the 2015 legislative session. ###
10.29.2014	Springfield, OR- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today joined approximately 75 McKenzie-Willamette Medical Center workers on the picket line during day two of a 72-hour strike. Rep. DeFazio strongly supports the workers’ call for a fair contract with the for-profit hospital. The contract dispute arose after McKenzie-Willamette management proposed increasing employee healthcare costs even as the hospital posted a 31 percent increase in profits between 2012 and 2013. At the same time, McKenzie-Willamette ranked second to last for spending on care for the neediest Oregonians. McKenzie-Willamette is owned by Tennesse-based Community Health Systems, which owns 206 hospitals across 29 states and reported nearly $13 billion in net revenues in 2013. “I came out to the picket line today because our country needs more leaders who go to bat for the average American worker,” DeFazio said. “Right here, in my hometown of Springfield, we have a for-profit medical company that is experiencing significant growth and paying its CEO $8.6 million a year. Yet the corporation wants to force workers making between 11 and 15 dollars an hour to dig deeper into their own pockets to pay more for healthcare coverage. I met a woman today who has worked here seven years, but at $12 an hour, she said it will be a huge hardship to pay increased healthcare costs for her and her children. This is hugely symbolic of what’s wrong with corporate America today. I’m outraged. Anyone who believes in the need for a thriving middle class in America should be outraged.” ###
10.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley joined today with Oregon Representatives Kurt Schrader, Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer and Suzanne Bonamici to call on the U.S. Coast Guard to hold off on its abrupt decision to shut down its Newport Air Facility and to keep open this important piece of the coastal safety net through the busy crabbing season. The Coast Guard with little notice announced this month that it plans to close the Newport Air Facility by December 1. At a community meeting earlier this week in Newport, residents voiced their strong objection to that sudden decision and its life-and-death impact. “The lack of notice has harmed the ability of local emergency response services to prepare plans that do not rely on the USCG helicopter’s presence in Newport. First-responders need the opportunity to evaluate what they will need to do to protect the public and what risk their operations run with the USCG helicopters stationed further away,” Oregon lawmakers wrote in a letter to Admiral Paul Zukunft, commandant of the Coast Guard. The lawmakers noted that commercial fisherman, steep terrain loggers, and recreationalists working in the treacherous waters and cliffs along the Oregon Coast all depend on the nearby Coast Guard helicopter. And they asked the Coast Guard for a six-month delay in its decision to close the Newport facility. “While we continue to believe that you should permanently reverse this decision per our letter of October 8—and while we will continue working to keep these assets in Newport—we urge you, at a minimum, to delay its implementation until after Newport’s coming crabbing season,” the lawmakers wrote, calling the short notice of the closure ”unacceptable.” “Our goal remains keeping a USCG helicopter in Newport permanently,” they concluded, “and we hope that a delay will provide us an opportunity to continue working with the USCG to make that a reality. ###
10.21.2014	Washington, DC- Oregon Congressman Peter DeFazio joined Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley today to urge VA Secretary Bob McDonald to oversee the selection of the next director of the VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS). Because of long-standing concerns about management, unacceptable delays in care, and allegations of unethical practices at VARHS, the Oregon lawmakers asked in a joint letter that the VA Secretary personally “oversee a critical hiring decision.” In their letter to Secretary McDonald, the Oregon lawmakers noted that high-level attention is warranted because of concerns from local veterans, veterans groups, as well as current and former VAHRS employees who have been unable to get adequate response from regional VA management, known as Northwest Health Network, or VISN20. “We have heard repeatedly from veterans and employees who have perceived dismissive management attitudes at VARHS and were unable to get help from VISN20 on these matters,” the letter to Secretary McDonald states. It continued: “When you addressed the American Legion Convention in August, we found agreement in your assessment that ‘too many VA leaders failed to take ownership of the problems facing their facilities and employees; failed to identify shortfalls in resources and take action to obtain the additional resources they needed, and they failed to set the standard for honesty and integrity and quash the culture of self-protection and retaliation.’” Secretary McDonald, who assumed his position at the VA in late July, has stated that one of his highest priorities is to change the culture and climate at VA facilities across the country in the wake of revelations of secret waiting lists and short staffing. The Oregon lawmakers’ letter continued: “We urge you to bring that change to Roseburg. In your American Legion Convention address, you listed these institutional values: integrity, commitment, advocacy, respect, and excellence. Please provide an ongoing review of the VARHS hiring process to guarantee the new VARHS director is guided by those ideals.” The former director of VARHS, Carol Bogedain, stepped down earlier this month. The full text of the letter to Secretary McDonald is below. --------- The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary US Department of Veterans Affairs Washington DC 20420 We are seeking your involvement in the selection of a new director for the VA Roseburg Healthcare System (VARHS). In light of long-standing concerns about management, unacceptable delays in care, and allegations of unethical practices at VARHS, we urge you to oversee this critical hiring decision. Local veterans, veteran groups, and current and former VAHRS employees have contacted our offices for years with concerns about the lack of leadership, patient care, and customer service at VARHS. Many of these concerns have been validated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA Office of the Inspector General (OIG) audited VARHS in 2010, for example, and concluded that VARHS did not schedule and report medical exams as required. The OIG report also identified problems with VARHS staffing and quality care and also found planning to be inadequate. In a 2014 letter to Congressman DeFazio, our Veterans Integrated Service Network, VISN 20, noted that VARHS remained backlogged and continued to struggle with staffing levels. The VISN also described veterans’ concerns about health care services at VARHS as “significant obstacles.” We have attached that letter for your reference. We have heard repeatedly from veterans and employees who have perceived dismissive management attitudes at VARHS and were unable to get help from VISN20 on these matters. When you addressed the American Legion Convention in August, we found agreement in your assessment that “[t]oo many VA leaders failed to take ownership of the problems facing their facilities and employees; failed to identify shortfalls in resources and take action to obtain the additional resources they needed, and they failed to set the standard for honesty and integrity and quash the culture of self-protection and retaliation.” VARHS clearly needs a strong and dynamic leadership team that is willing and able to work with local veterans. This will require the new administrators to engage all local stakeholders, including VARHS employees, to rebuild the trust that has been eroded over the last several years. We expect the new VARHS director to manage change while minimizing disruptions, to achieve results and, above all, to be an advocate for veterans. We know that one of your highest priorities is to change the culture and climate at VA facilities across the country, and we urge you to bring that change to Roseburg. In your American Legion Convention address, you listed these institutional values: integrity, commitment, advocacy, respect, and excellence. Please provide an ongoing review of the VARHS hiring process to guarantee the new VARHS director is guided by these ideals. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Ron Wyden Jeff Merkley Member of Congress Senator Senator ###
10.01.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) is applauding the first-ever release of data detailing the financial relationship between doctors and the prescription drug and medical device industries. In 2008, Rep. DeFazio introduced The Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which became a provision in the Affordable Care Act known as the Open Payments Program. The provision requires prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to publicly report gifts and payments to doctors for trips, meals, speaking fees and honoraria. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) reported during the last five months of 2013, there were 4.4 million payments valued at nearly $3.5 billion, attributable to 546,000 physicians and 1,360 teaching hospitals. “Every year, pharmaceutical companies and medical device manufacturers spend billions of dollars promoting their products,” DeFazio said. “However, there’s a difference between educating doctors on the uses and effects of new drugs and devices, versus enticing healthcare professionals with lavish gifts. When you have one surgeon in Texas receiving $7 million, almost all of it from one company, it’s bound to raise a few eyebrows. Thanks to the Open Payments Program, patients and doctors will have a better understanding of what these companies are paying for. This provision keeps the pharmaceutical and medical device industries honest.” CMS plans to issue reports annually, and will include 12-month data beginning in June 2015. The Open Payments dataset is available at www.cms.gov/openpayments. ###
09.29.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce the U.S. Department of Education has awarded two grants that will promote arts education in local schools. Springfield School District will receive $545,783 under the 2014 Arts in Education Model Development and Dissemination Program. The AEMDD program is an important tool to help staff strengthen and integrate art into elementary and middle school curriculum. Lane County School District will receive $321,529 under the 2014 Professional Development for Arts Educators Program. The PDAE program helps bring music, dance, drama, media arts and visual arts into high-poverty schools. “Study after study shows art and music can vastly improve a child’s academic achievement, social and emotional development, and civic engagement. Unfortunately, during lean budget times, schools have been forced to cut back on arts education, or eliminate it altogether,” DeFazio said. “But our children deserve every opportunity to succeed in life. It’s encouraging to see our local schools getting this important investment.” ###
09.29.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded a $2.4 million grant to Southwestern Oregon Community College in Coos Bay. The competitive grant will support job-driven training for careers in the healthcare and natural resources industries. In its grant application, SWOCC identified a regional need for qualified community health workers, which can be hard to find in rural communities such as Coos County. SWOCC proposed revising programs to specifically address this public health need. In addition, SWOCC plans to use the grant to develop a CTE (Career and Technical Education) certificate for GIS, forestry and natural resources technicians. “This $2.4 million grant is a solid investment for our region. Not only does it help students obtain skills for 21st century jobs, it simultaneously helps local businesses find the skilled employees they need to compete,” DeFazio said. “I’m proud to support programs that offer real solutions to put Oregonians back to work.” In total, the Department of Labor awarded $450 million to nearly 270 community colleges across the country today, marking the final installment of a four-year, $2 billion initiative. In 2013, Linn-Benton Community College received a $2.7 million grant. For more information on the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training grants, click here. ###
09.24.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce that Oregon will receive $2.6 million a year for seven years to help low-income students in Oregon’s rural communities prepare for college. The federal grant supports the Oregon GEAR UP program, which facilitates college visits, after-school tutoring, parent engagement and financial aid awareness for 36 middle and high schools. Twenty of the schools that competed to participate in the GEAR UP program are located in Congressman DeFazio’s District. “Over the years, I’ve met many students involved in the GEAR UP program and I can tell you first-hand this program makes a difference. The students I met prove that given the opportunity, every child in Oregon has the potential to get a college degree and contribute to our increasingly sophisticated and knowledge-based economy. The GEAR UP program is not only good for Oregon families but also for our country’s economic future.” Schools involved in GEAR UP include: Bandon Senior High, Harbor Lights Middle School, Illinois Valley High, Lorna Byrne Middle School, Cottage Grove High, Kennedy High School, Lincoln Middle School, McKenzie High School, McKenzie Elementary, Gold Beach High School, Riley Creek Elementary, Lebanon High, Seven Oak Middle School, Pioneer School, Hamilton Creek School, Lacomb School, Lowell Junior/Senior High, South Umpqua High School, Coffenberry Middle School, Oakridge High, Oakridge Junior High The GEAR UP program, authorized under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, is designed to significantly increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. *GEAR UP is an acronym for Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs.
09.22.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded two grants totaling more than $1.5 million to Lane and Douglas counties’ transit programs. In Lane County, the $1,064,145 grant awarded to the Lane Transit District will be used to replace a paratransit vehicle and to increase security on buses. In Douglas County, the $576,000 grant awarded to UTrans will be used to replace five buses. “Transit systems both large and small provide an invaluable resource for our communities. They provide mobility to our neighbors who could not otherwise get around, and reduce congestion and pollution by providing an alternative to cars,” DeFazio said. “These grants enable a safer and more effective fleet that helps senior citizens, people with disabilities and those who just need a ride to their job, which is always a worthwhile investment.” Both grants are part of the U.S. Department of Transportation’s 5309 Bus and Bus Facilities Program (Ladders of Opportunity Initiative). ###
09.17.2014	The following statement was submitted for the record in the U.S. House of Representatives on September 17, 2014. There is no doubt that the terrorist organization known as the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) is a growing regional threat that presents greater instability and turmoil across the Middle East. Today ISIL does not pose a credible strategic threat outside of the Middle East. So the U.S. response must reflect that reality. We cannot allow the Dick Cheneys of the world to use the horrific beheadings by ISIL as a call to war, just like the Gulf of Tonkin incident or the alleged weapons of mass destruction capabilities of Saddam Hussein. I am voting against this authorization to equip and train as yet unknown, perhaps non-existent “moderate” Syrian opposition forces to combat ISIL. The three most successful ground forces fighting in Syria are ISIL who has ties with Saudi Arabia, the Syrian army backed by Iran, and Al Nusra which has ties to Hezbollah. The alliances between these forces are constantly shifting. One day ISIL and Nusra make common cause against the Syrian army and the other day they are all fighting each other. These sectarian wars are based on thousands of years of history and the U.S. has no role in sorting them out. Congress is being asked to vote today on arming Syrian rebels that are yet to be vetted by the U.S. In fact, the text of this authorization requires the administration to report to Congress within 15 days on the plan for providing this assistance. Congress should know what the plan is before we vote on it. We should come back in 15 days or however long it takes for the administration to determine the scope and plan of this operation and who it is that the U.S. is going to arm in Syria. It is an abdication of our constitutional duties to vote on a vague authorization today instead of waiting and passing judgment on a more detailed assessment on this operation and an updated authorization for use of military force (AUMF). If you turned to any of my colleagues today and asked the basic question who are the 5,000 fighters that the U.S. will train and equip in Syria, they could not give you an answer. Not even our intelligence agencies know who we can trust. Before granting authorization, Congress should at least know who it is we are giving U.S. weapons to and what their ideology and political goals are. This is a complex mess of various actors, many of whom cannot be considered trustworthy allies. The Syrian opposition is made up of hundreds of thousands of fighters from various factions that are also fighting amongst each other. In Iraq, the U.S. is looking to form an alliance with a new government whose current Prime Minster has yet to prove he will bring Sunnis back to their proper place in an inclusive society. At the moment the Iraqi army barely exists on paper. It is extremely disturbing that the main Iraqi force currently fighting ISIL, Asaib Ahl al-haq, is incredibly hostile to the U.S. and was attacking our troops up to the last day of the U.S. occupation of Iraq. That is why it is so critical that Congress be presented with a detailed plan of this “train and equip” operation including who it is that we are arming before we vote and this amendment fails to do that. Most importantly what we are voting on today is a small part of President Obama’s larger strategy to go to war with ISIL. No President can declare war without Congressional authorization. If the U.S. is going to war with ISIL as it appears that we are, then my colleagues need to stay here and debate and vote on an AUMF. It is our constitutional duty and to leave town without a vote on the overall military strategy is disgraceful. The American people did not elect us to punt the responsibility for matters of war and peace to the President. The purpose of an AUMF is to lay out in detail the scope, plan, purpose, and duration of a military operation and to provide both classified and non-classified briefings to Congress and allow them to debate and express their opinions on the merits of this. Absent an AUMF from Congress, we are committing ourselves to an open ended war, declared by the President about which we have little to no details. Lastly, history has shown that U.S. involvement in sectarian as well as civil wars raging in the Middle East does not benefit our interests. ISIL would not exist today if it were not for the unnecessary U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, which I voted against. ISIL is a regional threat and it is time for Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Jordan, and other so-called “partners” to step up and fight this war themselves. They have no incentive to do it if we keep fighting it for them. Additionally, arming Syrian rebels could drag the U.S. into the Syrian civil war. General Martin Dempsey said yesterday in his testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee that he would put U.S. troops on the ground if he felt it was necessary despite the President’s numerous statements that he would not put boots on the ground. Already you can hear the march to war. In fact, it is easy to argue that continued U.S. military actions in the Middle East only create more hatred directed at our nation and increase the risk of terrorism both here and abroad.
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. –Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) introduced legislation that would impose trade sanctions on countries that facilitate ivory trafficking. Ivory from elephant tusks contributes billions to the global illegal wildlife trade and funds organized crime and terrorist organizations. “As many as 40,000 elephants were slaughtered in 2013 alone for their tusks and over 1,000 park rangers have been killed trying to protect endangered wildlife. The illegal wildlife trade funds the operations of gun, drug and human trafficking crime syndicates. It also funds extremely dangerous terrorist groups that threaten regional stability in Africa and national security in the United States. We need to choke off the access to the market. My legislation sends a strong message-- if countries permit this illegal trafficking, there will be economic consequences,” said DeFazio. DeFazio’s legislation, the Targeted Use of Sanctions for Killing Elephants in their Range (TUSKER) Act, was named in honor of Satao, a large-tusked (or tusker) elephant that was recently butchered by poachers in Kenya. According to the UN Security Council, a number of terrorist organizations are funded in part by the sale of elephant ivory and other stolen natural resources. They include, Joseph Kony and the Lord’s resistance Army in Uganda, the Janjaweed in Darfur, and the Al-Qaeda linked terrorist group Al-Shabaab. Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for a June terrorist attack that killed 58 people in Kenya and the deadly mall attack last year. It is reported to receive as much as 40% of its financing from the sale of illegal ivory and other poached wildlife. The legislation is supported by many major international wildlife and conservation groups, including Born Free, the International Fund for Animal Welfare, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the World Wildlife Federation, and Humane Society International. Statements of support can be found below. Adam Roberts – CEO, Born Free USA: The international illicit ivory trade is being driven by dangerous organized crime syndicates in Africa and Asia and must be stopped. Elephants continue to be slaughtered at record levels; heroic park rangers are literally laying their lives on the line to keep them safe; and national security in the most vulnerable parts of Africa is made more fragile. Congressman DeFazio deserves the full support of all Members of Congress for tackling this significant issue head-on. Jeff Flocken - Regional Director, North America, International Fund for Animal Welfare: “Every 15 minutes, a poacher kills an elephant for its ivory. It’s a material that nobody—except for elephants—needs, and this new legislation from Rep. DeFazio is an important step toward ending the senseless violence and making the world safer for people and animals. The United States has the ability and the responsibility to promote conservation goals here at home and around the world, and efforts like this are crucial to protecting endangered wildlife for generations to come.” Elly Pepper – Wildlife Advocate, Natural Resources Defense Council: “The illegal wildlife trade isn’t just an environmental issue—it’s a national security issue. International thugs, organized criminal syndicates and terrorists have used the multibillion-dollar trade in wildlife parts to raise funds for their nefarious activities. And that sets up a vicious cycle with only negative results: species extinctions, detrimental ecosystem impacts, and decreased national security. This bill is an important step in breaking that dangerous cycle.” Ginette Hemley - Senior Vice President of Wildlife Conservation, World Wildlife Fund: “We fully support the goal of this legislation, which is to ensure the integrity of countries' commitments to prevent illegal trade in ivory. With the ongoing poaching crisis devastating many of the world's remaining elephant populations, it is critical we ensure that international agreements on wildlife trade such as CITES are effective, enforceable, and include penalties for those countries that consistently fail to uphold their commitments.” ###
09.11.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement concerning President Obama’s plan to confront ISIL. “As the President stated in his address, ISIL is a growing regional threat that must be dealt with or we risk even greater instability and turmoil across the Middle East. Going forward, it will be critical that Congress vote on any military action in adherence to the War Powers Resolution of 1973 and the U.S. Constitution. There is no immediate threat, or mushroom cloud as Dick Cheney might say, that precludes Congress from debating the most effective response to ISIL. Congress needs to hear from our Middle East allies about their level of commitment, and it must weigh the proposed actions, military and diplomatic, with regards to the Assad regime, Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the Kurds, and the Sunni and Shia tribal factions in Iraq. Any authorization Congress provides the President should be limited in scope and duration and include constant consultation with Congress. This is a complex mess of various actors, many of whom cannot be considered trustworthy allies.” ###
09.10.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce that Southwest Oregon Regional Airport in North Bend has been awarded a $588,000 federal grant to improve safety. The grant will facilitate the purchase of an aircraft rescue and fire-fighting vehicle, as well as associated safety equipment. This grant is in addition to a $1 million grant the airport received in July to help pay for a new terminal building. Rep. DeFazio has long advocated for funding to improve Southwest Oregon Regional Airport. In past years, he secured at least $5 million dollars for improvements that included the air traffic control tower and an instrument landing system upgrade. Rep. DeFazio, a senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, applauded the most recent federal investment in aviation infrastructure. “Airports such as Southwest Oregon Regional connect our communities and spur economic growth, so it is critical to keep them in good working order,” DeFazio said. “I applaud the federal government for investing in America’s infrastructure and the safety of the traveling public.” The grant comes from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which provides funding for the planning and development of public-use airports. ###
09.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted House Republicans for ignoring the wildfire funding crisis and instead wasting time on pointless legislation that undermines the Endangered Species Act. “The West is on fire, and the Forest Service has notified us that they will run out of money to fight these fires in the very near future. What this means is they will borrow from their fuel reduction accounts and stop projects that mitigate, prevent, or lessen the severity of future fires. There is bipartisan, bicameral legislation that is supported by the President of the United States—rarer than any of the species we are talking about today. This legislation would fix the way we deal with these fires to give agencies the tools they need over time. This committee has not seen fit to hold a single hearing on this issue—not one. But here we are, at yet another hearing on bills that gut the ESA and are going nowhere in the Senate. I just spent five weeks out in the real world, and now I’m back inside the Beltway. I’m assuming my colleagues who are cosponsors of that bipartisan bill to fix wildfire were also back in the real world. Why haven’t these cosponsors signed onto the Discharge Petition to force a vote on this bill they claim to support, over the objections of Republican leadership? Yes, the Endangered Species Act needs updating. But none of the bills discussed in today’s hearing are real or thoughtful approaches,” said DeFazio. You can access the video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRaosETY8sY&list=UUB6LGE5-_i-xxtZxk1_SeTg BACKGROUND DeFazio, along with Representatives Scott Peters (D-CA) and Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), has led Democratic efforts in the House to force a vote on a stalled bipartisan, bicameral bill that would treat extreme wildfires as disasters and end the need to borrow from fire prevention efforts to pay to fight fires. House Democrats are using a discharge petition to try and bypass Speaker Boehner and Republican leadership to allow a quick vote on the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (H.R. 3992), introduced by Reps. Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR). Democrats began to gather signatures on the petition in July and need 218 signatures to bring the stalled legislation to the floor for an up or down vote. The petition currently stands at 196 signatures and needs just 22 more to force the vote. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act currently has 104 co-sponsors, including 52 Republicans. The legislation would end the cycle of fire-borrowing by treating catastrophic wildfires like similar major disasters such as floods and hurricanes. Under the bill, routine wildland firefighting costs, which make up about 70% of the cost of wildfire suppression, would be funded through a normal budgeting process. The true emergency fire events, which represent about 1% of wildland fires but eat up 30% of the budgeted funds, would be treated like similar major natural disasters. The proposal would immediately free up as much as $412 million, which could be used for a variety of programs to reduce fire risk and remove hazardous fuels. Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Mike Crapo (R-ID) are the original sponsors of the Senate legislation (S. 1875). In April, House Natural Resource Committee Democrats released a report that shows that deep budget cuts have hindered efforts by the U.S. Forest Service (Service) and the Department of Interior (DOI) to fight catastrophic wildfires in the last few years. The report found that fire suppression funding for the Service was slashed nearly in half over the last few years, from $1.4 billion in FY2010 to $850 million in FY2012. These cuts have forced the Service and DOI to “borrow”, or transfer funds, from other fire prevention and restoration programs to respond to the extreme wildfires of recent years and fill shortfalls in suppression funding. The Forest Service in 2013 alone redirected more than $500 million to firefighting from other programs, while the Interior Department redirected more than $34 million. In just 2013, the Service borrowed from many important programs, including the following: $183 million from Restoration of Forest Lands and Improvements; $40 million from the National Forest System; $30 million from Brush Disposal; and $30 million from Improvements and Maintenance. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would fix the “fire-borrowing” issue. ###
09.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Wilderness Act, landmark legislation that has protected and preserved nearly 110 million acres of irreplaceable wilderness. He also called for Congress to act on dozens of stalled wilderness designation bills. Under Republican leadership, the 112th Congress was the first Congress since 1966 that failed to pass a single wilderness bill. Only one has passed in the 113th Congress. “For fifty years, Republicans and Democrats have come together to protect some of our most iconic and treasured lands under the Wilderness Act. Because of this landmark, bipartisan law, nearly 110 million acres of irreplaceable wilderness areas have been preserved for our kids and our grandkids. Unfortunately, like so many previously bipartisan issues, wilderness bills have fallen victim to the partisan morass plaguing this Congress. With only twenty-seven legislative days left in the 113th Congress, I urge my colleagues to allow us to vote on the dozens of languishing wilderness bills, and grant protections for these incredible lands,” said DeFazio. KEY STATS The Wilderness Act of 1964 was signed into law on September 3, 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson. The Wilderness Act created the National Wilderness Preservation System, and gave Congress the authority to designate wilderness areas. Currently, there are 759 wilderness areas, totaling nearly 110 million acres, in 44 states. In Oregon, some of our most iconic spaces have been protected as wilderness areas, including Eagle Cap, Three Sisters, Mount Hood, the Steens Mountains, Wild Rogue, and Copper Salmon. Oregon enjoys 47 wilderness designations, protecting over 2.5 million acres. Table 1. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System Congress Number of Lawsa Number of States Number of New Areas (Additions)b Acres Designatedc 88th 1 13 54 (0) 9,125,721 89th 0 0 0 (0) 0 90th 5 4 5 (1) 792,750 91st 3 13 25 (0) 303,612 92nd 9 7 8 (1) 913,337 93rd 4 22 35 (0) 1,271,535 94th 8 23 35 (0) 2,428,327 95th 7 18 28 (5) 4,680,519 96th 7 10 71 (11) 60,753,605d 97th 6 6 7 (0) 83,309 98th 21 21 177 (49) 8,530,657 99th 5 5 11 (2) 99,153 100th 7 8 22 (4) 1,422,730 101st 5 5 68 (3) 3,501,160 102nd 2 2 6 (4) 426,290 103rd 2 2 79 (14) 8,272,871 104th 2 2 1 (2) 29,970 105th 1 1 0 (1) 160 106th 8 7 18 (1) 1,081,465 107th 5 5 18 (13) 529,590 108th 2 2 15 (0) 801,784 109th 6 7 25 (11) 1,030,748 110th 1 1 1 (0) 106,000 111th 1 9 50 (27) 2,096,150 112th 0 0 0 0 113th 1 1 1 ~33,000 Total 118 44 759 (149) 109,511,966 Source: Congressional Research Service a. Excludes laws with minor boundary and acreage adjustments (less than 10 acres of net change). b. The first number indicates the number of new wilderness areas; the parenthetical number indicates the number of additions to existing wilderness areas. c. This total differs from the total of the column because of acreage revisions. d. This includes 56.4 million acres that were designated wilderness through the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA: P.L. 96-487). ###
08.01.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce the Brookings Airport will receive a $231,568 federal grant to install a wildlife perimeter fence. In February, Rep. DeFazio’s office was notified that nearly two dozen elk frequented the airport operations area, a potential hazard for airplanes. DeFazio staff worked with Curry County Commissioners and the Federal Aviation Administration to quickly resolve the issue. “Sometimes the best solutions are the easiest ones, such as building a fence that will make the Brookings Airport safer and keep wildlife out of harm’s way,” DeFazio said. “This is great example of how federal and local governments can work together.” The grant comes from the FAA. ###
08.01.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) announced his town hall schedule for the August 2014 recess. Rep. DeFazio will travel the district to meet with constituents to discuss jobs and transportation legislation, the federal budget, Social Security, Medicare, port dredging and other issues relevant to Oregon’s Fourth Congressional District. The town hall meetings will also give constituents an opportunity to share their opinions and have Rep. DeFazio answer their questions about federal issues. Meetings are open to members of the public as well as the media. Rep. DeFazio kicked off his town hall series with a telephone town hall on July 21. The rest of the schedule is as follows: Tuesday, August 12: Reedsport 10:30-11:30 AM Community Building, Reedsport City Hall 451 Winchester Ave. Bandon 3:30-4:30 PM Bandon City Library, Sprague Room 1204 11th St. SW Gold Beach 6:00-7:00 PM Gold Beach City Hall Council Chambers 29592 Ellensburg Ave. Wednesday, August 13 Brookings 10:00-11:00 AM Chetco Activity Center, Rooms A&B 550 Chetco Lane Port Orford 1:30-2:30 PM Port Orford City Hall 555 W. 20th St. Coos Bay 5:15-6:15PM Coos Bay City Hall Council Chambers 500 Central Ave. Thursday, August 14 North Bend (Focused on Veterans Issues) 11:30-12:30PM North Bend High School, Hall of Champions 2323 Pacific St. Springfield 6:00-7:00PM Willamalane Center for Sports and Recreation, Ken Long Room 250 S 32nd St. Monday, August 18 Cottage Grove 10:00-11:00AM City Hall 400 E Main St. Grants Pass 5:30-6:30PM Anne Basker Auditorium 604 NW 6th St. Tuesday, August 19 Myrtle Creek 1:00-2:00PM South Umpqua High School Auditorium 501 Chadwick Lane Roseburg 5:30-6:30PM Roseburg City Hall 900 SE Douglas Ave. Wednesday, August 20 Lebanon 12:00-1:00PM Lebanon Public Library, Community Meeting Room 55 Academy St. Albany (Focused on Veterans Issues) 2:30-3:30PM American Legion Post 10 1215 Pacific Blvd. SE Corvallis 5:15-6:15PM Corvallis Public Library 645 NW Monroe Ave. Thursday, August 21 Florence 11:00-12:00PM Suislaw Public Library 1460 9th St. Veneta 4:00-5:00PM Veneta City Hall 88184 8th St. Monday, August 25 Eugene (Focused on Seniors Issues) 1:30-2:30PM Petersen Barn 870 Berntzen Rd. Eugene 6:30-7:30PM Hilyard Community Center 2580 Hilyard St. ###
08.01.2014	Washington, DC- With just weeks before a final decision is to be made, 50 members of Congress, led by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-Maine), are calling on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to reject new GE herbicide-resistant crops and the subsequent use of extraordinarily potent weed-killer designed to kill the “superweeds” that have adapted to withstand Monsanto’s RoundUp. The herbicide, Dow’s Enlist Duo, contains 2, 4-D, the same compound used in Agent Orange that sickened many Vietnam veterans. Members are concerned EPA and USDA have failed to properly analyze the potentially devastating health and environmental effects of allowing the use of this next generation of herbicide-resistant crops. As the letter to the EPA and the USDA states, the scientific community warned about the dangers of exposure to 2, 4-D for decades. 2, 4-D is linked to cancer, decreased sperm count liver disease and Parkinson’s disease. A recent report shows thousands of schools would be next to spray zones. “Right now, we are witnessing agribusiness attempt to wield its powerful influence over federal regulators. They want EPA and USDA to rubberstamp another set of genetically engineered crops rather than listen to the scientific community,” DeFazio said. “We must stop this toxic treadmill because the health of our children and our environment is at stake.” "The introduction of Roundup Ready GE crops in the 90s sparked a frightening increase in the amount of herbicides in this country. There's no reason to think that the deregulation of 2,4-D resistant plants will be any different," said Pingree. "The overuse of these powerful herbicides has led to superweeds that require an even stronger cocktail of toxic chemicals to control. When will it end? Today, it's Enlist 'Duo.' Tomorrow, it could be 'Triple' or 'Quintet.' The federal government needs to take a hard look at ending this destructive cycle." The full letter to EPA and USDA is below. July 31, 2014 The Honorable Thomas J. Vilsack Secretary, Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20250 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Secretary Vilsack and Administrator McCarthy, We write to you to express our grave concerns regarding your agencies’ proposed decisions to register the Enlist Duo herbicide as well as deregulate new varieties of genetically engineered (GE) crops engineered to withstand exposure to the active ingredients glyphosate and 2,4-D. We believe that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) have failed to thoroughly analyze and address the risks of Enlist Duo and the multiple adverse human health, environmental, agronomic, and socioeconomic harms that approval of 2,4-D crops will likely cause. We currently stand at an agricultural crossroads. The first generation of “Roundup Ready” GE crops increased herbicide use by 527 million pounds between 1996 and 2011, triggering an epidemic of glyphosate-resistant “superweeds” which now infest over 61 million acres across 36 states. 2,4-D crops are among the “next-generation” of GE crops engineered to withstand applications of older, more toxic herbicides. While they are often touted as a solution to herbicide-resistant weeds, even the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) recognizes in its draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) that deregulating 2,4-D crops will spur the further evolution of 2,4-D resistant weeds and cause a three to seven fold increase in 2,4-D use. The scientific community has sounded alarms about exposure to 2,4-D for decades. 2,4-D has been linked to multiple adverse health effects including cancer (especially non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma), decreased sperm count, liver disease and Parkinson’s disease. Further, exposure has also been shown to negatively impact the hormonal, reproductive, neurological and immune systems. In addition, EPA has reported that 2,4-D is the seventh largest source of dioxins in the United States. Dioxins are extremely toxic chemicals, and their bioaccumulation in the food chain may potentially lead to dangerous levels of exposure. We are also concerned that EPA failed to thoroughly examine all of the significant health and environmental risks of 2,4-D including that of inhalation and aggregate exposure; the risks of 2,4-D exposure to threatened and endangered species; and the risks posed by shifts in use patterns of 2,4-D as a result of the GE cropping systems. Most alarming is EPA’s failure to apply the additional safety factor of 10x, as mandated under the Food Quality Protection Act, to protect children, who are especially susceptible to harm from pesticide exposure. The 10-fold safety factor is required by law to safeguard against the potential health risks for young children and infants that would result from the widespread use of 2,4-D on GE crops. In deciding to prepare a DEIS before proceeding, USDA APHIS recognized that its proposed approval of Dow’s 2,4-D crops will likely cause significant environmental, agronomic and socioeconomic harms. Despite acknowledging these significant harms, in the DEIS, APHIS alleges it “must” approve the proposed crops pursuant to the Plant Protection Act (PPA), because they do not create “plant pest” harms. However in so doing APHIS has narrowly constrained its interpretation of its regulation. This overly narrow and arbitrary interpretation of APHIS’s authority is contrary to common sense and good governance principles, as well as contradicts prior acknowledgments by APHIS that its GE crop review is “considerably broader” than its review of “traditional” plant pests. Rather, APHIS has authority over broadly defined harms to agriculture and the environment that it must apply to Dow’s crops and their acknowledged adverse impacts. Surveys of state pesticide regulators establish that 2,4-D drift is already responsible for more episodes of crop damage than any other pesticide. Vastly increased use with approval of 2,4-D crops would correspondingly increase crop damage, putting farmers of sensitive crops at grave risk. Wild plants, waterways and wildlife – including pollinator – habitat would also be threatened. 2,4-D is a quite potent plant-killer, even at levels typical of drift. EPA tests show that 2,4-D is over 400 times more toxic to emerging seedlings and 12 times more toxic to growing plants than glyphosate. While APHIS admits that transgenic contamination because of its proposed action is possible, even likely, it refuses to analyze it. We believe that contamination will occur and it will result in significant economic harm to conventional, organic and even some growers of the first generation of glyphosate-resistant GE crops. Yet, the agency wrongly puts the entire burden on non-2,4-D crop farmers to attempt to avoid contamination. We request that USDA and EPA fully review the facts, law, and science in this case. As the over 400,000 public comments indicate, the risks of approving 2,4-D crops are simply too great and benefits too few to jeopardize public health, the environment and the long-term sustainability of our food supply. We therefore request EPA not register Enlist Duo for use on 2,4-D crops and USDA maintain the regulated status for 2,4-D resistant crops. Sincerely, __________________________ ___________________________ Peter DeFazio Chellie Pingree Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ John Conyers Jr. Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Louise Slaughter Nita Lowey Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Rosa DeLauro James Moran Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Maxine Waters Sam Farr Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Betty McCollum Michael Michaud Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Jerrold Nadler Anna G. Eshoo Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Bobby Rush Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Earl Blumenauer James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Eleanor Holmes Norton Bill Pascrell Jr. Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Barbara Lee Grace Napolitano Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Jan Schakowsky Mike Honda Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ James Langevin Adam Schiff Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Stephen Lynch Raul Grijalva Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Tim Ryan Gwen Moore Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Debbie Wasserman Schultz Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Keith Ellison Jackie Speier Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Charles Rangel Carol Shea-Porter Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Ann McLane Kuster Gerald Connolly Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Jared Polis Paul Tonko Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Mike Quigley Judy Chu Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ David Cicilline Alan Grayson Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Dina Titus Matt Cartwright Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ ___________________________ Jared Huffman Alan Lowenthal Member of Congress Member of Congress __________________________ Mark Pocan Member of Congress ###
07.31.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), a senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, today took to the floor to blast Republican leadership for refusing to consider the Senate’s short-term fix for the Highway Trust Fund. The Senate version, which passed with bipartisan support, would’ve provided a path for Congress to take up a long-term, sustainable transportation bill before the end of the year. “We are forgoing an incredible boost to our economy that could put hundreds of thousands of Americans back to work and put our country back on track for world-class infrastructure,” DeFazio said. “Instead, we kicked the can down the road once again. States still face the same uncertainty, long-term projects remain idle and an incredible mechanism to create jobs remains untapped.” To see DeFazio’s full floor speech, click here. Last month, DeFazio introduced H.R. 4848, the Repeal and Rebuild Act. This long-term funding bill would repeal the federal gas tax and replace it with a modest tax on a barrel of oil. DeFazio’s bill would raise more than $100 billion, enough to fund highway and transit programs for the next six years, thereby creating and saving hundreds of thousands of jobs. A recent Standard & Poor’s report found each $1.3 billion investment creates $2 billion in real economic growth, reduces the federal deficit by $200 million and creates at least 29,000 jobs. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, DC-Rep. Peter DeFazio is calling for full accountability and possible disciplinary actions at the VA Roseburg Medical Center and the VA Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center in White City after a survey conducted by the VA suggested employees manipulated patient wait times and kept wait lists secret. The Veterans Health Administration data was based on anonymous surveys of VA employees. Thirty percent of surveyed employees at Roseburg, and 50 percent of surveyed employees at White City, indicated that they had been asked to manipulate appointment dates. The next step will likely be an in-depth investigation conducted by the Inspector General to determine details, including who is responsible. “I’ve worked for years to remedy the systemic issues at the Roseburg VA, including poor leadership, staffing shortages and unacceptably long wait times,” DeFazio said. “But nothing could possibly make me more outraged than the possibility that employees were actually pressured to manipulate data, playing a dangerous game with the lives of veterans. Anyone found responsible should be immediately fired.” Months before learning of the survey, Rep. DeFazio became a cosponsor of legislation that would give the new VA Secretary greater flexibility to immediately fire any senior executive who is not delivering the highest quality service to our veterans. The bill also creates new tools to hire and retain much-needed doctors and nurses, which would alleviate long wait times at VA facilities around the country, and allocate $10 billion to allow any veteran who has to wait more than 30 days for an appointment to get care at a non-VA facility if they prefer. Today, H.R. 3230 was approved by the House of Representatives on a vote of 420 to 5. DeFazio voted for the legislation. It now goes to the Senate for approval. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, DC- Today, the House Natural Resources Committee passed legislation from Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) that would protect and expand the Oregon Caves National Monument. The legislation would expand the monument by 4,070 acres and designate the River Styx –the underground stream running through Oregon Caves- as the first subterranean Wild and Scenic River in the nation. The legislation is now eligible for consideration by the full House of Representatives. If passed, the bill will go to President Obama’s desk for his signature and become law. “The Oregon Caves National Monument is a special place and very deserving of expansion. From the incredible caves system, to the rustic and charming 1930s Chateau, to the miles of trails with unforgettable views of the Siskiyou Mountains, Oregon Caves is a place worth visiting and revisiting. This bill would expand the monument to attract more visitors and support local businesses, direct the Park Service to complete necessary hazardous fuel work, and protect the first underground river under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. This legislation is supported by more than fifty local businesses, it’s supported by community members, and today the House Natural Resources Committee passed it without objection. I will continue to fight to bring it to the House floor when Congress returns in September and get it signed into law as quickly as possible,” said DeFazio. More than 70,000 tourists visit Oregon Caves each year, generating $4.8 million in local revenues and supporting 70 local jobs in Josephine County and Cave Junction. An expansion is expected to draw even more visitors to the monument, who will spend more money at Josephine County motels, restaurants, gas stations, gift shops, and other small businesses. The 4,070 acre expansion will be managed as a National Preserve, which will allow the National Park Service (NPS) to preserve hunting and fishing access for the public. Recently, NPS confirmed in a written letter to DeFazio that hunting and fishing access will be preserved under both the House and the Senate legislation. The expansion includes a key watershed important to the unique hydrology of the caves and the source of drinking water for 70,000 annual visitors. The legislation also provides for the voluntary donation of grazing permits within and near the monument to be permanently retired. The NPS and scientists have expressed concerns about the impact of grazing on the watershed, cave system, and drinking water supply. Oregon Caves is the longest marble cave (3.5 miles) open to the public west of the Continental Divide. Oregon Caves National Monument was established in 1909 by President Howard Taft. At the time, the Secretary of the Interior proposed a monument of 2,500 acres but President Taft settled on 480 acres. Expansion has been proposed by the NPS on multiple occasions, first in 1939, again in 1949, and most recently in 1999. The NPS supports S.354/H.R. 2489 and testified in support of the legislation. A companion bill was passed by the Senate this month. More than fifty stakeholder groups, many of which are small, local businesses in Cave Junction and Josephine County, have publicly supported the legislation. Their letters of support can be found here. ###
07.29.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) made the following statement after the Environmental Working Group released a report that shows the food industry spent $9 million in the first quarter of the year on efforts to defeat GMO labeling legislation. “It’s very telling that corporate food manufacturers are pouring millions of dollars into defeating GMO labeling efforts, including my bill that would create a national labeling standard. This spending spree is a desperate attempt to derail solid legislation that is supported by an overwhelming number of Americans who just want to know what’s in the food they eat. I urge my colleagues in Congress to start listening to their constituents and not the mega-food companies that are using money to influence Congress and drown out the voice of average Americans.” Rep. DeFazio introduced H.R. 1699, the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act, on April 24, 2013. ###
07.23.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted Republican leadership for failing to act on bipartisan, House and Senate legislation that would treat extreme wildfires the same as other natural disasters and end the need to borrow from fire prevention efforts to pay to fight fires. Dozens of fires have burned over 800,000 acres in the Pacific Northwest alone this year and the federal agencies tasked with fighting the fires anticipate they will run out of money in the next month. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (H.R. 3992), introduced by Reps. Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and co-sponsored by DeFazio, would provide immediate funding to fight wildfires and ensure that agencies can continue to perform other important fire prevention and restoration activities. DeFazio has recently led Democratic efforts in the House to force a vote on the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act. Using what’s called a discharge petition, DeFazio and others are trying to bypass Speaker Boehner and Republican leadership to allow a quick vote on the legislation. The petition must reach 218 signatures to force the up or down vote. Currently, 182 Democrats have signed the petition. No Republicans have signed yet. “What has this House of Representatives done while the bone-dry West has gone up in flames? Nothing. Not even a hearing on this bipartisan, common sense legislation to fix our wildfire funding crisis. They blather on endlessly about all sorts of things—wasting time on dozens of meaningless conspiracy theory driven investigations. Can Congress take some action on the forest fire crisis that is staring us in the face right now? The House needs to wake up, smell the smoke and pass this bipartisan, bicameral reform that will help us fight and prevent wildfires,” said DeFazio. See DeFazio’s floor speech here. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act currently has 104 co-sponsors, including 52 Republicans. The legislation would end the cycle of fire-borrowing by treating catastrophic wildfires like similar major disasters such as floods and hurricanes. Under the bill, routine wildland firefighting costs, which make up about 70% of the cost of wildfire suppression, would be funded through a normal budgeting process. The true emergency fire events, which represent about 1% of wildland fires but eat up 30% of the budgeted funds, would be treated like similar major natural disasters. Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Mike Crapo (R-ID) are the original sponsors of the Senate legislation (S. 1875). The proposal would immediately free up as much as $412 million, which could be used for a variety of programs to reduce fire risk and remove hazardous fuels. In April, House Natural Resource Committee Democrats released a report that shows that deep budget cuts have hindered efforts by the U.S. Forest Service (Service) and the Department of Interior (DOI) to fight catastrophic wildfires in the last few years. The report found that fire suppression funding for the Service was slashed nearly in half over the last few years, from $1.4 billion in FY2010 to $850 million in FY2012. These cuts have forced the Service and DOI to “borrow”, or transfer funds, from other fire prevention and restoration programs to respond to the extreme wildfires of recent years and fill shortfalls in suppression funding. The Forest Service in 2013 alone redirected more than $500 million to firefighting from other programs, while the Interior Department redirected more than $34 million. In just 2013, the Service borrowed from many important programs, including the following: $183 million from Restoration of Forest Lands and Improvements; $40 million from the National Forest System; $30 million from Brush Disposal; and $30 million from Improvements and Maintenance. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would fix the “fire-borrowing” issue. FIRE STATS 19 large uncontained fires have burned more than 500,000 acres in Oregon. Oregon’s wildfires have burned more than 916 square miles, nearly the size of Rhode Island. 7 large uncontained fires have burned more than 320,000 acres in Washington In total, dozens of fires have burned over 800,000 acres in the Pacific Northwest. 12,800 firefighters and support personnel have been dispatched to Pacific Northwest to fight these fires Both Washington & Oregon have declared states of emergency. In the last 24 hours, lightning has caused 25 new small fires in Oregon All of these fires are not only costly to fight, but have caused irreparable harm to the local economies with evacuations in place resulting in losses of much needed tourism revenue during the peak of summer vacation season, and losses to the resource based economy like the timber industry whose already dwindling resources are going up in smoke. --30--
07.22.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce two airports in his Congressional district will receive federal grants totaling $2.3 million. The city of North Bend will receive $1 million from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to help reimburse the city for a portion of the cost of the new terminal building at Southwest Oregon Regional Airport. Rep. DeFazio has long advocated for funding to improve the airport in North Bend. In past years, he secured at least $5 million dollars for improvements that included the air traffic control tower and an instrument landing system upgrade. In addition, today the FAA awarded the city of Roseburg $1.3 million to make repairs at the Roseburg Regional Airport. The grant will be used to fix existing apron and taxiway pavement that has reached the end of its useful life. Rep. DeFazio strongly supports increased investment in our nation’s infrastructure, including airports. “Both the Southwest Oregon Regional Airport in North Bend and the Roseburg Regional Airport are important access points not only for the cities in which they operate, but also for the surrounding rural communities. I’m pleased to see the federal government investing in these important upgrades,” DeFazio said. “Ultimately, these grants will make the airports safer and more efficient, while also boosting the local economies. This is exactly the kind of investment that puts Americans back to work and makes our country stronger.” The grants come from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which provides funding for the planning and development of public-use airports. ###
07.15.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), a senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, today criticized Republican leadership for bringing to the floor a transportation bill that fails to create jobs and falls far short of addressing long-term needs. H.R. 5021, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act, is a stopgap measure that simply provides funding to continue highway and transit programs through May 2015. The bill passed 367-55. DeFazio ultimately voted for the bill in order to prevent the Highway Trust Fund from going bankrupt within a few weeks. However, earlier in the day he took to the House Floor to urge his colleagues to immediately pursue a bill to provide long-term funding. (Video of that speech can be found here.) In a statement following the vote, DeFazio said, “H.R. 5021 is nothing more than a Band-Aid bill that will do little to create jobs or address the problem of our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. Furthermore, a nine-month extension does little for states that need to plan long-term infrastructure projects. While it was important today to prevent the Highway Trust Fund from running dry, we cannot forget that failing to consider a long-term solution is a missed opportunity to create hundreds of thousands of American jobs, make communities safer and ease congestion. Over the coming weeks and months, I will continue to push my colleagues to address transportation funding head-on.” In June, DeFazio introduced H.R. 4848, the Repeal and Rebuild Act. This long-term funding bill would repeal the federal gas tax and replace it with a modest tax on a barrel of oil. DeFazio’s bill would raise more than $100 billion, enough to fund highway and transit programs for the next six years, thereby creating and saving hundreds of thousands of jobs. A recent Standard & Poor’s report found each $1.3 billion investment creates $2 billion in real economic growth, reduces the federal deficit by $200 million and creates at least 29,000 jobs. ###
07.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Representatives Scott Peters (D-CA) and Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) led Democratic efforts in the House to force a vote on a stalled bipartisan, bicameral bill that would treat extreme wildfires as disasters and end the need to borrow from fire prevention efforts to pay to fight fires. House Democrats are using a discharge petition to try and bypass Speaker Boehner and Republican leadership to allow a quick vote on the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (H.R. 3992). Democrats began to gather signatures on the petition this morning and need 218 signatures to bring the stalled legislation to the floor for an up or down vote. “What is this Republican leadership doing? They are passing repeat legislation that will do nothing to help average Americans, wasting precious time while the bone-dry West goes up in flames. We requested multiple drought hearings—we were ignored. We asked them to consider this legislation—but they refused. So today, Democrats tried to force the Republican leadership to actually act. Our agencies are running out of money and we have a bipartisan, bicameral solution on the table. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership is content to allow funding to lapse while the West is on fire. They need to wake up and smell the smoke,” said Rep. DeFazio. DeFazio also spoke at a press conference this morning in support of the wildfire funding legislation (see his speech here). Video of a floor speech in support of the legislation can be found here. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act currently has 104 co-sponsors, including 52 Republicans. The legislation would end the cycle of fire-borrowing by treating catastrophic wildfires like similar major disasters such as floods and hurricanes. Under the bill, routine wildland firefighting costs, which make up about 70% of the cost of wildfire suppression, would be funded through a normal budgeting process. The true emergency fire events, which represent about 1% of wildland fires but eat up 30% of the budgeted funds, would be treated like similar major natural disasters. The proposal would immediately free up as much as $412 million, which could be used for a variety of programs to reduce fire risk and remove hazardous fuels. Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Mike Crapo (R-ID) are the original sponsors of the Senate legislation (S. 1875). In April, DeFazio released a report that shows that deep budget cuts have hindered efforts by the U.S. Forest Service (Service) and the Department of Interior (DOI) to fight catastrophic wildfires in the last few years. The report found that fire suppression funding for the Service was slashed nearly in half over the last few years, from $1.4 billion in FY2010 to $850 million in FY2012. These cuts have forced the Service and DOI to “borrow”, or transfer funds, from other fire prevention and restoration programs to respond to the extreme wildfires of recent years and fill shortfalls in suppression funding. The Forest Service in 2013 alone redirected more than $500 million to firefighting from other programs, while the Interior Department redirected more than $34 million. In just 2013, the Service borrowed from many important programs, including the following: $183 million from Restoration of Forest Lands and Improvements; $40 million from the National Forest System; $30 million from Brush Disposal; and $30 million from Improvements and Maintenance. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would fix the “fire-borrowing” issue.
07.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) was joined by 19 other Democrats in introducing the Hardrock Mining and Reclamation Act (H.R. 5060), legislation that would reform the General Mining Act of 1872 to protect taxpayers and the environment and bring hardrock mining into the 21st Century. DeFazio’s legislation builds off of a 2007 bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support. “For over 140 years, the federal government has allowed mining companies to extract hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of valuable publically owned minerals from our public lands without paying American taxpayers a single dime. Adding insult to injury, the current law has allowed these mining companies–many of them foreign owned–to carve up our lands and abandon the toxic, hazardous mess for taxpayers to clean up. My legislation will ensure the mining industry pays its fair share, meets modern environmental standards, and addresses its legacy of contamination throughout the West,” said DeFazio. DeFazio’s legislation would: Put hardrock mining on a level playing field with coal, oil, and gas by requiring mining operations to pay the American public for minerals removed from public lands. The legislation places an 8% royalty on new mines and a 4% royalty on existing mines. A new report by the Committee’s Democrats estimates that the owners of 46 of the nation’s top-producing hardrock mines would have paid $380 million in royalties in 2012 and 2013 had the DeFazio legislation been law. Devote those royalties, as well as money raised from a fee on material displaced by hardrock mining, to the cleanup of abandoned hardrock mine lands across the country—a cleanup that has been estimated to cost American taxpayers as much as $72 billion. Permanently end the antiquated and unfair patenting system that allows companies to purchase mineral-containing public land for $2.50 - $5 per acre. Establish strong reclamation standards and bonding requirements to ensure the American people aren’t on the hook to clean up a mine if a company skips town or goes bankrupt. Provide clear authority for federal land managers to say no to a proposed mine if it would unduly degrade public lands or resources. Protect special places, such as wilderness study areas, roadless areas, and wild and scenic rivers, from mining. Empower state, local, and tribal governments to petition the federal government to take certain areas off limits in order to protect drinking water, wildlife habitat, cultural and historic resources, or other important values. Provide new legal tools to assist “good Samaritans”, such as sportsmen or environmental groups or other volunteers, who want to help clean up the toxic environmental legacy of abandoned mines. Exempt small miners–those with less than $100,000 in mining income–from having to pay royalties. DeFazio also released a report that found 46 of the largest mines in the U.S. produced roughly $9.6 billion of royalty-free hardrock minerals from federal public domain lands over the past two years. The owners of these mines would have paid royalties of over $380 million if the DeFazio legislation had been law. Twenty-one of these mines are foreign owned. The report can be found here. BACKGROUND Signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant, the General Mining Act of 1872 was passed to spur development and settlement in the western United States. The law allowed companies to stake mineral claims on any public lands, pay a minimal fee to purchase that land, and extract billions of dollars’ worth of oil, gas, shale, gold, coal and other hardrock minerals without paying a dime to American taxpayers. The 1872 law also contains no environmental standards or financial assurance requirements, and makes hardrock mining the preeminent use of public lands, allowing it to trump other uses such as grazing, hunting, and recreation. Over time, Congress has recognized that this system shortchanges the American people that own these minerals, and reformed the Mining Law to exclude oil, gas, coal, phosphate, and other minerals. The federal government issues leases for those minerals and rightfully collects a royalty off what is produced. But companies mining valuable metals like gold, silver, and copper still operate under the 1872 law. Congress has tried to change the law on multiple occasions. In 1993 and 2007, the House passed legislation on a bipartisan basis to assess a royalty on hardrock minerals and reform the mining process. However, on neither occasion could such legislation clear the Senate. DeFazio’s legislation builds on these bipartisan reform efforts.
07.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter urging Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell to create critical buffer zones to protect endangered gray wolves in or around our National Parks. In 2011, Congress legislated a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposal to prematurely delist the gray wolf in Idaho, Montana, parts of Oregon and Washington when that proposal failed to pass muster in the courts. Since then numerous wolves have been killed just outside park borders. In the letter, DeFazio writes, “Even with the delisting rule, killing or trapping wolves is prohibited inside Yellowstone National Park. However, gray wolves do not respect invisible park boundaries and once the wolves cross out of the park and onto bordering lands, there are myriad inconsistent state regulations that allow hunters to kill wolves on sight; in some instances without limit. As a result, the Yellowstone wolves are being shot and killed right outside the borders of the park.” For over three years, the population of gray wolves in Yellowstone has steadily decreased as a result of hunting-related deaths. According to wildlife biologists, Yellowstone’s wolf population dropped 25% between 2011 and the end of 2012. The National Park Service reports that as of March 1, 2013, 12 Yellowstone National Park wolves were legally harvested just outside the park borders. To highlight one specific case, in late 2012, the New York Times reported that the renowned alpha wolf, 832F, was shot and killed just 15 miles outside park boundaries in Wyoming. In the letter, DeFazio requests that the Department of the Interior (DOI) undertake a concerted and coordinated effort to work with the states to establish a uniform wolf safety zone or buffer around Yellowstone National Park. He also asks DOI to establish an Interagency Wolf Task Force for the purpose of coordinating across the federal and state agencies to protect park wolves from adverse effects of trophy hunting and other causes of human-induced mortality in all National Parks with wolf populations. Today, DeFazio also sent a letter to Director of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) Dan Ashe, questioning his defense of the science used to justify the Service’s recent proposal to remove critical protections for endangered gray wolves in the remaining lower 48 states. In March, DeFazio led a bipartisan letter co-signed by 73 House members urging Secretary Jewell to withdraw the flawed proposal. The letter came on the heels of an independent peer review that found the Service failed to use the “best available science” when it drafted the proposed rule that would remove Endangered Species Act (ESA) protections for gray wolves in the continental United States. “In press accounts, you have indicated you have no second thoughts on the delisting proposal and dismissed the peer review as being too technical, despite the fact that the peer reviewers answered the questions that the Service put to them. It is remarkable that we would spend 20 years or more committed to the recovery of this species only to see it vanish well before the job has been completed. That is not only irresponsible, it is shameful, and I do not believe it is the goal of the ESA. In short, I find the morphing explanation based upon science which has failed a peer review to be unworthy of your agency,” DeFazio wrote to Director Ashe. The Service’s proposed rule to delist in the lower 48 has generated over 1 million comments since 2013. DeFazio recently led a CREDO Mobile petition to urge the Service to rescind the rule that generated nearly 160,000 signatures. A copy of the Jewell letter can be found here. A copy of the Ashe letter can be found here. Background on DeFazio’s actions on gray wolf issues, click here.
06.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted Republicans for the passage of H.R. 4899, “Drill Everywhere” legislation that will mandate drilling off our coasts and public lands, and erode key environmental review. The legislation, which was last passed in 2013, will do nothing to lower gas prices for American consumers. It was approved by the House on a mostly party line vote 229-185. “Well, you’ve heard of Christmas in July. For Congress, it’s Groundhog Day on energy in June. The legislation passed today is the same, stale proposal they passed last year, and the year before that, and the year before that. Just like those previous years, they make the false promise that it would immediately drop prices at the pump. In reality, this bill will give oil companies the ability to put drilling rigs up and down the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. It will destroy environmental protections throughout the West, threatening our hunting and fishing grounds, our wilderness and our parks. It will make it nearly impossible for communities to fight back against drilling where they don’t want it. It will line the pockets of Big Oil fatcats so they can buy another yacht, or private jet, or influence Congressional elections. The one thing this bill won’t do-- lower gas prices. Once again, Republicans wasted time with legislation that will go nowhere in the Senate,” said DeFazio. Video of DeFazio’s statement on the legislation can be found here. Since the Republican majority first brought this bill to the Floor after taking the House back in 2011, U.S. oil production has gone from 5.6 million barrels a day to 8.3 million barrels a day—nearly a 50 percent jump. President Obama is presiding over record production levels and plummeting imports, while the exact opposite happened under President Bush. The Energy Information Administration is projecting record levels of offshore production by 2016. Recently, BP put out their latest statistical review, and they said the US had “one of the largest single year increases in oil production in the history of the world.” The United States is producing 62 percent more oil than it did back in 2008—however gas prices have remained unchanged. Currently, gasoline and diesel exports have reached over a half billion barrels a year, nearly quadruple the amount in 2007. The United States has such an abundance of oil right now, the American Petroleum Institute has made it their mission to overturn the ban on exporting crude so producers can start shipping American oil to India and China. H.R. 4899 would just make it easier for hugely-profitable oil companies to access more American oil that they’ll try to send overseas for higher prices. For bill background information, key energy production statistics, and graphs detailing production levels, click here.
06.24.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce the Eugene Airport will receive a $7.4 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to expand its terminal. The 19,000 square foot expansion will improve facilities and make the security checkpoint area more efficient. Rep. DeFazio strongly supports increased investment in our nation’s infrastructure, including airports. “The Eugene Airport is a critical access point for the South Willamette Valley and an important part of our economy. It serves hundreds of thousands of people and businesses in the surrounding communities,” DeFazio said. “As someone who uses the Eugene Airport on a weekly basis, I know first-hand how security lines can extend all the way to the baggage claim. This FAA grant will improve efficiency and result in a better passenger experience.” In addition, the FAA awarded a $150,000 grant to the Port of Gold Beach for the Gold Beach Municipal Airport. The grant will pay for the installation of a vertical visual guidance system, including runway lights and improved approaches to the runway ends. The grants come from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which provides funding for the planning and development of public-use airports. ###
06.12.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today introduced legislation that would save the Highway Trust Fund from insolvency. HR 4848,“The Repeal and Rebuild Act,” is a long-term solution that would create American jobs, fix the nation’s crumbling infrastructure, and finally break the transportation funding impasse that has plagued Congress for years. “America’s economic competitiveness is at stake. While Congress hems and haws over how to deal with the dwindling Highway Trust Fund, the rest of the world is moving full-speed ahead,” DeFazio said. “I introduced a real proposal today because I’m tired of Congress being all talk and no action. It seems like every politician says creating jobs is their priority. Here’s a chance for members to do just that by investing in our nation’s infrastructure. Let’s get this done.” (Rep. DeFazio made additional comments at the Rally for Roads event in front of the U.S. Capitol. See his speech here.) “The Repeal and Rebuild Act” would: *Repeal the federal gas tax (18.4 cents per gallon) *Increase the tax on a barrel of oil that is processed into gasoline to $6.75 and index it to construction cost inflation and fleet fuel economy *Index the diesel tax to construction cost inflation and fleet fuel economy *Bond the new revenue to backfill the Highway Trust Fund shortfall *Support a $324 billion six-year reauthorization In the first year the barrel tax would raise less than the 18.4 cent gas tax, providing potential short-term relief to consumers. The barrel tax would be indexed to DOT’s National Highway Construction Cost Index and to CAFE standards to account for less fuel consumption attributed to those standards. The tax would not be applied to aviation, rail, or home heating fuel. A two-pager on “The Repeal and Rebuild Act” is available upon request. ###
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), a senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, today applauded successful passage of his and Rep. Lynn Westmoreland’s (R-GA) amendment to H.R. 4745, the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act. The amendment would prohibit the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) from approving Norwegian Air International’s foreign air carrier permit unless it complies with protections included in the U.S.-EU Open Skies Agreement. In doing so, the amendment would help protect American jobs from unfair competition by Norwegian Air International which plans to register its aircraft in Ireland, a country with less stringent labor laws and regulation, and outsource pilots and crew to countries with a cheaper, less experienced workforce, which will undermine safety. Norwegian Air International has applied for a permit to operate in the U.S. “With this amendment, the House put its foot down on companies that ‘nation-shop’ to find the lowest-possible standards in order to save a few bucks,” DeFazio said. “We have fought far too long and far too hard to make air travel as safe as possible in this country. By taking action, we will uphold the safety standards we’ve all come to expect from the airlines. We also ensure that U.S. airlines are not at a competitive disadvantage against foreign-owned companies that seek out the lowest-paid workers who possess a minimal amount of training.” Rep. DeFazio ultimately voted no on H.R. 4745 because the bill contains inadequate funding to rebuild our nation’s roads, bridges, transit or passenger rail, and it cuts funding for housing programs to assist some of our most vulnerable citizens, including the homeless. H.R. 4745 would slash the budget of TIGER grants and Amtrak, among other things. Background on the NAI Amendment: Norwegian Air International, which has applied for a foreign air carrier permit to operate in the U.S., is attempting to get around labor, tax and regulatory laws by registering its aircraft in Ireland. This is similar to a practice in the maritime industry in which ships are registered (or flagged) in countries with less stringent environmental and labor standards in order to cut costs. These “flag of convenience” ships are notorious for poorly trained and paid crews, and poorly maintained ships. Behind the NAI application is a global outsourcing business model for its pilots and flight attendants that will put U.S. airlines and their employees at a competitive disadvantage. This airline, bearing the name “Norwegian,” has established itself in Ireland where labor and regulatory rules are weaker, but it will not fly to or from Ireland, and is expected to hire much of its crew on individual employment contracts under Singapore law and base them in Thailand in order to cut expenses. This operating model directly violates Article 17 bis of the U.S.-EU Open Skies Agreement, which states that “the opportunities created by the Agreement are not intended to undermine labour standards or the labour-related rights and principles contained in the Parties’ respective laws.” It would allow NAI to drastically undercut U.S. carriers who are following U.S. regulations and threaten the competitive balance of the transatlantic aviation marketplace. This bipartisan amendment reinforces that the DOT must follow the treaty and U.S. law to protect the viability of the U.S. airline industry and its workers, as well as the safety of U.S. passengers. ###
06.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement after it was announced that gray wolf OR-7 has found a mate and produced offspring: “After two years and over 3,000 miles of searching, OR-7 is a lone wolf no longer. Not only has OR-7 found a mate, today it was announced he has fathered at least two pups—the first wolf pups in southern Oregon in decades. This is great news, but the critical federal protections that have allowed OR-7 to start his new pack are in jeopardy. As we celebrate OR-7 and his new family, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is threatening to disregard science and take the gray wolf off the Endangered Species list. If the Service delists the gray wolf, states could declare open season on gray wolves like OR-7, his mate, and these new pups. For over a year, I have fought to keep these critical federal protections for gray wolves and will continue to do so until Fish and Wildlife Service makes their final decision later this year.” BACKGROUND In 2013, the Fish and Wildlife Service recommended removing protections for gray wolves across most of the lower 48 states. In January 2014, a peer review from an independent, objective panel of top wolf scientists evaluated the proposed delisting and the science behind it. The reviewers unanimously found the Service did not use the “best available science” when they decided to remove the gray wolf from protections under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). DeFazio has sent multiple bipartisan letters to U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell, urging them to continue protections for the gray wolf under the ESA. The Service’s proposed delisting has generated over 1 million comments since 2013. DeFazio recently led a CREDO Mobile petition to urge the Service to rescind the delisting rule that generated nearly 160,000 signatures. For copies of the letters, and additional background, click here: https://democrats.naturalresources.house.gov/issue/gray-wolves --30--
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Rep. Peter DeFazio released the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency announced new actions to cut carbon pollution 30 percent by 2030: “Today, we can stop arguing with the climate change deniers and start protecting our atmosphere, our planet, and most importantly, our children. “We know climate change is real. In Oregon, we’re experiencing severe droughts, devastating wildfires and ocean acidification. We need concrete steps to combat these human-caused changes, and so I applaud President Obama and the EPA for getting serious about ways to cut carbon pollution at our nation’s power plants. It demonstrates that America is willing and ready to lead on this issue. “The EPA’s plan will reduce emissions by setting firm state-level goals and giving states great flexibility in how to meet these goals. Experts believe this will reduce power bills by roughly eight percent because of increased efficiency and reduced demand on the electricity system. The EPA plan will also lead to innovation in the energy sector. “In the coming days, I look forward to gaining further insight and analysis of the new rule to understand its framework and to look for areas of improvement. I want to make sure we achieve the greatest possible outcomes.”
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. –On Thursday, the House passed an amendment sponsored by Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Representative Jared Huffman (D-CA) and Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) that will save West Coast fishermen $2.4 million. Their amendment would suspend for a year, the collection of a cost recovery fee in the West Coast Trawl Rationalization Program and provide some relief to groundfish fishermen who are facing mounting costs at a time when they are already struggling to make ends meet. “West Coast fishermen already face major financial obstacles, including paying off the high interest buyback loan and costs of carrying mandatory observers on board at all times. Without action from Congress, a $2.4 million ‘recovery fee’ that began this year would continue to be assessed at a time when family fishermen can ill afford it. This bipartisan amendment delays the fee to provide much needed relief to struggling fishermen, allows regulators to improve the rules governing the West Coast catch share program, adopts electronic monitoring, and gives Congress the opportunity to refinance the high-interest buyback loan – one of my top legislative priorities,” said DeFazio. “The economies of communities up and down California’s North Coast depend on the success of our local fishermen, but additional costs and mounting fees are putting them on increasingly tenuous financial footing. Recent events have made it worse: it is becoming increasingly difficult for fishermen to repay the interest and principal on a decade-old federal loan, and without Congressional action, they would face an additional $2.4 million ‘recovery fee’ beginning this year,” Huffman said. “I was happy to work with Ranking Member DeFazio and Congresswoman Herrera Beutler to provide relief to fishermen and the small businesses that rely on them.” “Many fishing businesses from my district in the West Coast groundfish fishery are struggling to pay high interest rates on federal loans and fees on their catch,” said Herrera Beutler. “In order to provide some much needed economic relief to these small businesses, I am pleased to support this bipartisan solution that puts money back into the local fishing industry. By waiving fees and planned expenditures for one year, we’re taking a fiscally responsible, commonsense step toward helping the economic engine of our coastal communities.” The West Coast groundfish industry has been rebuilding its stocks for several years. In order to ensure the long term sustainability of the fishery, they have been forced to make hard decisions and cut costs. The rebuilding plan included the adoption of a catch share program to prevent overfishing and depleted stocks. To cover the costs associated with this management plan, the federal government began collecting a fee this year. This bipartisan amendment would suspend the collection of the fee for a year, to allow time for the refinancing of the high-interest loan to go into effect. It would also allow time for new electronic monitoring programs to go into effect that would lower observer costs for fishermen. The new fee would come at the same time that the industry continues to pay a very high interest rate for a Federal loan they willingly undertook to buy out excess capacity in the industry and speed the rebuilding process. DeFazio and Huffman are co-sponsors of Herrera Beutler’s REFI Act (HR 2646), bipartisan legislation that would save West Coast fishermen additional millions by refinancing these unfair, expensive federal loans. The Refi Act was passed out of the House Natural Resources Committee yesterday.
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) released the following statement: “As someone who has fought VA bureaucracy on behalf of the veterans in my own district, I’m disappointed but not surprised to learn about widespread problems. We need to show our veterans we are serious about fulfilling our promise to the men and women who put their lives on the line for our country. That is why I’m asking Secretary Shinseki to resign. It’s time to clean house at the VA, and that starts at the top.” ###
05.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) passed bipartisan legislation that would save West Coast fishermen millions by refinancing unfair, expensive, high-interest federal loans. H.R. 2646, the REFI Act, is sponsored by Representatives Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) and Jared Huffman (D-CA). Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) is an original co-sponsor of the legislation and helped draft the bipartisan bill. DeFazio was able to add the provisions of the Refi Act to H.R. 4742, the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act that was passed by the House Natural Resources Committee today. “The West Coast buyback loan has been an albatross around fishermen’s necks. Fishermen have been charged an extortionate interest rate and the tabs skyrocketed after their repayment plan was delayed. The original terms of the loan were bad and implementation was worse. This is a common sense bill that would refinance the loan, save fishermen and their families’ money, and keep the fishery competitive. And it still makes sure that American taxpayers get a fair shake. This is a bipartisan, bicameral bill, and it is supported by members of Congress representing the West Coast, from California to Alaska. I am glad we are moving forward in the legislative process and will continue fight for passage out of the full House,” said DeFazio. BACKGROUND Back in 2000, the West Coast Groundfish Fishery was declared a federal fishery disaster due to low stock abundance, overfishing, and an overcapitalized fleet. In 2003, Congress authorized a $36 million loan to finance a capacity reduction program to buyout 91 vessels and 239 fishing permits. The program was key to making the fishery sustainable. The fishermen who remained in the fishery are tasked with repaying the debt of buying out these vessels and permits. The original loan was set up with a repayment rate of five percent ex-vessel value of all fish harvested, a 30-year repayment period, and a 6.97 percent interest rate – which was two points over the prime rate at the time. Under this legislation, the repayment rate would not exceed three percent ex-vessel value of all fish harvested, the repayment period would extend to 45-years, and the interest rate would be the treasury rate. To add insult to injury, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) Financial Services department did not establish a mechanism to collect loan payments until 2005 – 18 months after the loan was authorized. Over $4 million of interest accrued before the fleet was able to begin paying down the loan. That was unacceptable and put the loan in trouble from the very beginning. The federal government makes a $700,000 profit each year on West Coast fishermen and, under current loan conditions, is expected to collect $93 million on a $36 million loan. ###
05.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded House passage of legislation that will ease federal restrictions on Oregon State University’s (OSU) Hermiston Agricultural Research & Extension Center (HAREC). Sponsored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) in the House, and Senators Wyden and Merkley in the Senate, the legislation will give OSU the flexibility to better meet the center’s agricultural mission, local and regional agricultural needs, and boost economic benefit for the regional economy. Rep. DeFazio issued the following statement in response: “OSU’s Agricultural Research & Extension Center provides invaluable cutting edge information and research to the Northwest’s unique agricultural community. This legislation would help ensure the university is able to continue that mission. This is a win-win situation for OSU, the local economy, and the agricultural community throughout the region. I applaud Rep. Walden for this legislation and look forward to working with him and Senators Wyden and Merkley to get this legislation on the president’s desk.” BACKGROUND In 1954, 240 acres near Hermiston, Oregon was conveyed by the federal government to the State of Oregon for the creation of an agricultural experiment station. The site is now home to Oregon State University’s (OSU) Hermiston Agricultural Research & Extension Center (HAREC). HAREC provides state-of-the-art crop research and leadership that has increased economic returns in rural Eastern Oregon communities. Currently, federal restrictions, known as a “reversionary clause,” could prevent OSU and the City of Hermiston from responding to regional growth. The reversionary clause prohibits relocation of the OSU facility, which is currently located within Hermiston city limits. Walden’s legislation, HR 3366, will ease these restrictions to give OSU and the community greater flexibility in managing the property. Similar legislation has been introduced by Senator Wyden in the U.S. Senate. ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell for awarding a grant to the Phoenix School of Roseburg as part of the Department of Interior (DOI)’s Youth Initiative. According to the DOI, the grant will allow Douglas County youth to gain critical skills and training that will prepare them for careers in the natural resource industry. “This grant is great news and a great investment. The summer youth employment rate continues to be near record lows, which robs kids of the opportunity to acquire valuable skills and experience that will help prepare them to succeed in the workforce as adults. The DOI’s Summer Youth Initiative grant will provide a great opportunity for youth in Douglas County to gain practical experience working in the woods, and will help train the next generation of lands stewards,” said DeFazio. Launched in 2013, DOI’s youth initiative seeks to use public, private, and non-profit partnerships to engage the next generation and encourage them to play, learn, serve and work in our great outdoors. To learn more about the program, click here. DOI’s description of the grant and the program is below: Umpqua Resource Pathway Phoenix School of Roseburg USFS Funds: $45,223 Matching Funds: $46,033 Total Project Funds: $91,256 “The Phoenix School of Roseburg will expand upon their 20+ year partnership with the Oregon Youth Conservation Corps, through partnerships with the BLM Roseburg District, USFS Umpqua National Forest, Umpqua Community College, Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, and Umpqua Watersheds, Inc., to train and employ 12 youth through a program entitled Umpqua Natural Resources Pathway during the summer of 2015. A multi-year, tiered pathway will allow youth in Douglas County to gain career-specific skills in the natural resources field while progressing through a gradually more rigorous course of training and education. Youth crews will work as a team to broaden their skills on several projects with local and regional professionals on the Umpqua National Forest lands. These activities will have dual benefits: 12 youth will gain life-changing experiences in natural resources technology as they assemble important ecological data and will also offer a pathway to higher educational opportunities in natural resources though a partnership with Umpqua Community College. The outcome of the program is to ensure a pathway towards natural resources careers for at-risk youth through a “Learn, Earn, and Serve” model of education, skillset development, and work opportunities.” Project Location: Umpqua Basin, Douglas County, Oregon. ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC--House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today applauded President Obama’s designation of the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument near Las Cruces, New Mexico. President Obama is establishing the Organ Mountains as a National Monument using powers granted by Congress under the 1906 Antiquities Act. In January, DeFazio led 109 Democrats on a letter to the president, requesting he use these powers to protect iconic landscapes jeopardized by Congressional inaction. DeFazio issued the following statement in response: “Since 1906, both Republican and Democratic presidents have used the authority granted to them by Congress to protect some of our most iconic and treasured national lands. The Grand Canyon, Grand Teton, Zion, Olympic, the Statue of Liberty, and the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal were protected with the same presidential designation that President Obama is using to protect the Organ Mountains today. I fully expect the House Republicans, who have been openly hostile to the preservation of public lands, to ignore the overwhelming community support for this monument, start crying crocodile tears, and oppose this designation. For years, bipartisan Senate and House bills to protect the Organ Mountains have been stalled in this dysfunctional Congress. If Congress actually did its job and passed good conservation bills that incorporated years of local input, presidential designation wouldn’t be our only option. I applaud President Obama and Secretary Jewell, and urge them to continue their good work to protect our irreplaceable open spaces.” BACKGROUND For more than 100 years, the Antiquities Act has been an important tool that has led to the protection of some our most iconic landscapes and valuable cultural resources, including the Grand Canyon and the recently enacted Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Monument. The 112th Congress was the first Congress in 40 years that failed to permanently protect any of America’s treasured landscapes. FACTS Sixteen of the 19 Presidents since 1906 created 137 monuments, including the Grand Canyon, Grand Teton, Zion, Olympic, the Statue of Liberty, and the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal. President Franklin Roosevelt used his authority the most often—on 28 occasions. President George W. Bush proclaimed the most monument acreage, virtually all in marine areas, including the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, with approximately 89 million acres; the Marianas Trench Marine National Monument, with 60.9 million acres; the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, with 55.6 million acres; and the Rose Atoll Marine National Monument, with 8.6 million acres. The latter three areas form the largest protected ocean area in the world. Out of the 137 Monuments created since 1906, 32 have been redesignated as National Parks. Three Presidents had the opportunity to use the Antiquities Act but chose not to (Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan & George H.W. Bush). Although President Reagan was one of three Presidents not to use the Antiquities Act, he signed 43 wilderness bills into law designating a net total of 10.6 million acres. During the dedication ceremony of the new National Geographic Headquarters, President Reagan said, “What is a conservative after all but one who conserves, one who is committed to protecting and holding close the things by which we live…. And we want to protect and conserve the land on which we live — our countryside, our rivers and mountains, our plains and meadows and forests. This is our patrimony. This is what we leave to our children. And our great moral responsibility is to leave it to them either as we found it or better than we found it.” -- June 19, 1984 ###
05.20.2014	Washington, DC- Oregon’s small ports are a step closer to millions of dollars in new dredging funds, after House lawmakers overwhelmingly approved the Water Resources Reform & Development Act of 2014. The final vote was 412 to 4. The bill, which authorizes funding for Army Corps of Engineers navigation, flood control and environmental restoration projects, now advances to the Senate for final passage before it is signed into law. Rep. Peter DeFazio successfully fought for a provision that guarantees the nation’s small ports, including those in Southwest Oregon, will receive annual funding for dredging for the next eight years. In recent years, the budget for small ports was zeroed out due to a lack of funding. Rep. DeFazio expects his set-aside will generate at least $90 million each year for the nation's small ports. “This bill is a shot in the arm for coastal economies. By restoring funds to dredge Oregon’s ports, we will create jobs and make it safer for commercial and recreational fishermen to operate. As I’ve long argued, infrastructure investment is the single best thing the federal government can do to put Americans back to work, something Congress should be doing more of.” Video of Rep. DeFazio’s House floor speech is here.
05.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on legislation from Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) that would protect and expand the Oregon Caves National Monument. DeFazio’s legislation, The Oregon Caves Revitalization Act (HR 2489), would expand the monument by 4,070 acres and designate the River Styx –the underground stream running through Oregon Caves- as the first subterranean Wild and Scenic River in the nation. More than 80,000 tourists visit Oregon Caves each year, supporting jobs and local businesses in Josephine County and Cave Junction and pumping money in the local economy. An expansion is expected to bring a much-needed economic boost to Josephine County and the surrounding area. “The Oregon Caves National Monument is a special place and very deserving of expansion. From the incredible caves system, to the rustic and charming 1930s Chateau, to the miles of trails with unforgettable views of the Siskiyou Mountains, Oregon Caves is a place worth visiting and revisiting. Unfortunately, when the monument was first designated over 100 years ago by President Taft the 480 acre designation wasn’t enough to protect the unique hydrology of the caves and the water supply for future visitors. Grazing and possible fires in dry Southern Oregon have exposed the Marbled Halls of Oregon to serious risk. This bill would expand the monument to attract more visitors and support local businesses, reduce grazing in and near the monument, direct the Park Service to complete necessary hazardous fuel work, and protect the first underground river under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act,” said DeFazio. Video of DeFazio’s statement of support for the Oregon Caves expansion can be found here. The 4,070 acre expansion will be managed as a National Preserve, which will allow the National Park Service (NPS) to preserve hunting and fishing access for the public.. The expansion includes key watershed important to the unique hydrology of the caves and the source of drinking water for 80,000 annual visitors. The legislation also provides for the voluntary donation of grazing permits within and near the monument to be permanently retired by the NPS. The National Park Service has expressed concerns about the impact of grazing on the watershed, cave system, and drinking water supply. Oregon Caves is the longest marble cave (3.5 miles) open to the public west of the Continental Divide. Oregon Caves National Monument was established in 1909 by President Howard Taft. At the time, the Secretary of the Interior proposed a monument of 2,500 acres but President Taft settled on 480 acres. Expansion has been proposed by the NPS on multiple occasions, first in 1939, again in 1949, and most recently in 1999. A companion bill was passed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in 2013 and awaits action in the full Senate. Nearly forty stakeholder groups, many of which are small, local businesses in Cave Junction and Josephine County, have publicly supported the legislation. Their letters of support can be found here and attached to this email.
05.19.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio released the following statement regarding today’s court ruling that overturned Oregon’s ban on same-sex marriage. “Today’s ruling makes me especially proud to be an Oregonian. As one of just 67 Members of Congress to vote against DOMA in 1996, I pointed out at the time that laws restricting marriage equality were unnecessary, discriminatory and possibly unconstitutional. With today’s ruling, Oregon can reaffirm a commitment to ensuring civil rights for all citizens, not just some. While there is still work to be done in our state and around the country, today’s ruling in Eugene certainly marks an important milestone in the ongoing fight for equality for all.” Rep. DeFazio is a cosponsor of H.R. 2523, the Respect for Marriage Act. This bill would repeal the remaining portions of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which currently enable states to refuse recognition of same-sex marriages performed in other states.
05.15.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is pleased to announce that the conference report that reconciles House and Senate water resources development legislation was filed today. This legislation, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA), authorizes funding for Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) navigation, flood control and environmental restoration projects. This legislation will directly benefit Oregon’s small ports. As a member of the House-Senate conference committee who drafted the report, Rep. DeFazio secured the provision that guarantees the nation’s small ports, a number of them in Southwest Oregon, will receive at least 10 percent of annual funding provided for dredging for the next eight years. Assuming recent funding levels are maintained, this set-aside will generate at least $90 million annually for small ports, and will generate additional revenue if Congress provides more than 2012 funding levels to the Corps. Small ports and harbors around the country have long been underfunded, and for years, most have been “zeroed out” in the Administration’s budget request to Congress. Rep. DeFazio has fought repeatedly during his time in Congress to secure federal funds to dredge small ports along Oregon’s south coast. These funds are essential to keep our ports open and safe, and to ensure Oregon’s coastal communities are able to thrive. “This bill is a huge victory for Oregon’s coastal communities because it dedicates millions of dollars to long-overdue investment in our ports. This legislation will create jobs, make conditions safer for Oregon’s fishing and recreation industries, and help the U.S. stay economically competitive,” DeFazio said. “This is the first glimmer of life in an otherwise very divided Congress. I hope this same sense of bipartisanship and urgency continues as we tackle the next great challenge: replenishing the Highway Trust Fund in order to repair our nation’s crumbling roads and bridges.” Additional highlights of the legislation: The legislation calls for 100 percent utilization of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for harbor maintenance and dredging by 2025. Currently only about half of the funds collected through the HMTF are used for harbor maintenance. This legislation puts us on the path towards recapturing that funding and using it to address the Corps’ backlog of projects, rather than as an offset for general government spending. The legislation also authorizes $42 million for the Willamette River Floodplain Restoration Project, which will help restore aquatic habitat for Upper Willamette River Chinook salmon, bull trout and Oregon chub, in addition to improving floodplain and aquatic habitats for other fish and wildlife species. In addition, it starts to address the threat of invasive species in the Columbia River by authorizing the Corps to establish watercraft inspection stations in the vicinity of Corps reservoirs in the States of Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington with the highest likelihood of preventing the spread of invasive species. Finally, the legislation makes improvements to FEMA’s dam safety program by increasing the funding, which could help spillway issues on dams in the Willamette Valley. It also develops a dam safety education and awareness initiative to assist the public in preparing for, mitigating for, responding to, and recovering from dam incidents. The final legislation is expected to be considered by the House early next week and the Senate shortly thereafter. It will then be sent to the President for his signature.
05.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement on the third National Climate Assessment released by the White House today: “Today’s report on climate change should serve as a wake-up call, especially in the Northwest. We are already feeling the consequences of inaction. Droughts are more frequent and wildfires are more devastating. Our coastal lands, forests, and agriculture are at risk. This year, Oregon’s Mt. Ashland failed to open for skiing for the first time in 50 years because there was simply not enough snow. If oceans continue to warm up and acidification intensifies, our fishing industries could collapse. As sea levels rise, our infrastructure, including ports, bridges and roads, will need to be replaced or retrofitted. This is just the start. Without action, climate change will severely threaten every Oregonian’s way of life. It’s unacceptable to pretend climate change is not happening, and it’s outrageous to push off its ill effects on future generations.” Oregon currently plays an active role in climate change research. Earlier this year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture chose Corvallis to host of its seven regional “Climate Hubs.” The “Climate Hubs” are designed to deliver science-based knowledge and practical guidance to farmers, ranchers, landowners and resource managers to help them combat the effects of climate change. ###
04.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) responded to four bills that would add layers of bureaucracy, waste limited agency resources, and divert efforts to recover species under the Endangered Species Act. “As with a number of issues before the committee, there has been the potential for balanced, reasonable compromise to modernize the Endangered Species Act. But again, the majority chose to forgo bipartisan collaboration and instead continue with the politicking. The four Republican bills that we marked up today are not serious attempts to reform one of the most important environmental laws of our generation—they were produced by the partisan ESA Working Group. Democrats offered reasonable, common sense amendments to address a few of the major issues with some of these bills, but unfortunately the Majority rejected them,” said Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR). Background on the HR 4315, 4316, 4317, and 4318 and Democratic amendments can be found here. See DeFazio’s opening statement at the markup here.
04.11.2014	Washington, DC (April 10, 2014)- Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement after House Republicans passed the Ryan Republican Budget. The budget passed by a vote of 219 to 205. “The Ryan Republican Budget is an insult to the hard-working men and women of this country, and it tells you everything you need to know about the priorities of the Republican Party: protect the wealthy and special interests at all costs, while doing nothing to address the growing income disparity that is ruining our country’s middle class.” *Video of Rep. DeFazio’s Floor Speech here The Ryan Republican Budget would reduce taxes on wealthy individuals and corporations, while slashing budgets for all non-defense programs. Transportation/Job Creation: “Instead of creating jobs, the Ryan Republican Budget would do the opposite by cutting off transportation infrastructure spending this summer, resulting in hundreds of thousands of job losses. Repairing American’s aging infrastructure is perhaps our greatest and most immediate opportunity to create good-paying, American jobs, but instead the Ryan budget would let construction sites go idle, putting more people in line at the unemployment office. Education/Head Start: “Rather than creating new opportunities for future generations, the Ryan Republican Budget would slash $145 billion from Pell Grants, making college less affordable for millions of low-income students and further driving a wedge between the haves and have-nots. “At the same time, as many as 170,000 children would lose access to Head Start, while 3.4 million underprivileged children at 8,000 U.S. schools would lose vital Title I education funding. “Under the Republican vision, not only would millions of children lose vital programs, they’d also have less to eat. The Ryan Republican Budget would slash the food stamp program by $135 billion and convert the program to a block grant. Medicare: “Senior citizens aren’t spared either. The Ryan Republican Budget would end the Medicare guarantee, increasing seniors’ costs by 11 percent up front, and then rising over time. In addition, the Ryan Republican Budget would reopen the ‘donut hole,’ forcing senior citizens to spend more of their fixed income on increasingly expensive medications. That cut penalizes anyone on Medicare, a group that has a median income of $23,500. Once again, the Ryan Republican Budget demands the greatest sacrifice from Americans who can afford it the least. Environment: “The Ryan Republican Budget completely ignores a looming problem in the drought-stricken West – the threat of catastrophic wildfires. Unlike floods or hurricanes, the Republicans’ budget allocates zero dollars to fight devastating fires, instead forcing the Forest Service to swallow the costs at the expense of fire prevention and restoration. Even worse, the budget opposes a bipartisan, bicameral fix that would treat extreme wildfires as disasters, provide a reliable funding stream, and the need to borrow money to fight fires. This is yet another example of how misguided and reckless this budget truly is.”
04.11.2014	Washington, DC (April 7, 2014)– Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today praised the U.S. Senate for approving a bill to extend unemployment benefits to more than 2.3 million Americans, including 31,000 Oregonians, and strongly urged his colleagues in the House to do the same. If the House fails to approve the bill by the end of the year, it’s estimated the number of Oregonians who lose benefits will more than double to 76,000. President Obama has stated his support of the extension. Unfortunately, the bill will stall in the House unless Speaker John Boehner changes course and allows a vote. Speaker Boehner has repeatedly stated he will not bring the bill to the floor. Rep. DeFazio issued this statement: “While I’m encouraged by today’s progress in the Senate, I find it outrageous that we are still fighting this battle in the House three months after more than 2 million hardworking Americans lost an essential benefit to help keep food on their table and a roof over their head. Some of my Republican colleagues will tell you that we cannot afford to pay unemployment benefits to struggling Americans, yet they do not blink at approving billions of dollars in corporate subsidies. It’s high time Congress got its priorities straight.” The Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2014 is bipartisan legislation that would restore emergency unemployment insurance benefits through the end May for Americans who are actively looking for work. The bill not only helps Americans who are struggling to pay their bills, but economists also say the benefits boost the economy. National statistics: *Each week, 72,000 Americans lose unemployment benefits, averaging one person every 8 seconds Oregon Statistics (as of March 8, 2014): *31,221 Oregonians have lost unemployment insurance since Dec. 28, 2013 *16,683 children have been affected by expiring benefits *The economy in Oregon lost $54,231,118 in January and February *If EUC is not renewed: 76,100 Oregonians will be affected by the end of the year *If EUC is renewed: 3,829 jobs will be saved through the end of 2014
04.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee Peter DeFazio (D-OR) blasted House Republicans for voting to gut Presidential authority to designate new wilderness, National Parks, and National Monuments outlined in the Antiquities Act. The Republican legislation, H.R. 1459, would turn back the clock to a pre-Antiquities Act era when efforts to protect and conserve irreplaceable American landscapes were stalled in Congressional morass. “Republicans say they want to give Congress more control over designations. Let’s take a look at what Republican leadership has done with the control they already have. Over the past 4 years, the Republican majority has passed legislation to sell off our public lands to the highest bidder, they have passed multiple bills that would open our public lands to destructive and virtually unregulated mineral and energy extraction, and they shut down access to our parks, monuments and refuges with their tea-party led government shutdown. This bill is simply pandering to the ideologues that disagree with the majority of Americans who want to protect our public lands for future generations,” said DeFazio. Find DeFazio’s floor speech on the H.R. 1459 legislation here. Under H.R. 1459, Presidential monument designations would be needlessly complicated, meaning most or all monument proposals would be subject to the political gridlock of Congress. The legislation would amend the Antiquities Act to require application of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to Presidential National Monument designations over an arbitrary size of 5,000 acres. Designations under 5,000 acres would not trigger NEPA but could be declared for only three years, unless designated by an Act of Congress. It would limit Presidential declarations of National Monuments to one per state, per four-year presidential term, without an act of Congress. And it requires written permission from land owners to include private property within the boundaries of a National Monument and requires a feasibility study to analyze the cost to the federal government. As the record of Republican leadership in the House demonstrates, a three-year temporary monument status, pending Congressional action, would effectively halt the establishment of permanent National Monuments under 5,000 acres. Important proposals like Cesar Chavez and Harriet Tubman might never have been accomplished. Conservation initiatives and recreation on public lands are a net positive for gateway communities and the American economy. According to a 2013 report by the Outdoor Industry Association, outdoor recreation generates $6.4 billion in consumer spending and supports 6.1 million direct jobs. Nearly 90 conservation designation bills have been introduced to the House in the last two Congresses. Only four have become law. In response to the failure of the Republican Congress to move forward on these conservation bills, DeFazio and Public Lands Subcommittee Ranking Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) released a letter in January co-signed by 109 House Democrats urging Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell to protect and conserve national treasures under the Antiquities Act. Brief Facts/Information on the Antiquities Act: •Sixteen of the 19 Presidents since 1906 created 137 monuments, including the Grand Canyon, Grand Teton, Zion, Olympic, the Statue of Liberty, and the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal. •President Franklin Roosevelt used his authority the most often—on 28 occasions. •President George W. Bush proclaimed the most monument acreage, virtually all in marine areas namely the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, with approximately 89 million acres; the Marianas Trench Marine National Monument, with 60.9 million acres; the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, with 55.6 million acres; and the Rose Atoll Marine National Monument, with 8.6 million acres.21 The latter three areas formed the largest protected ocean area in the world. •Out of the 137 Monuments, 32 have been redesignated as National Parks •The three Presidents to not use the Antiquities Act (Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan & George H.W. Bush) •Although President Reagan was one of three Presidents to not use the Antiquities Act, he signed 43 wilderness bills into law designating a net total of 10.6 million acres. •During the dedication ceremony of the new National Geographic Headquarters, President Reagan said, “what is a conservative after all but one who conserves, one who is committed to protecting and holding close the things by which we live…And we want to protect and conserve the land on which we live — our countryside, our rivers and mountains, our plains and meadows and forests. This is our patrimony. This is what we leave to our children. And our great moral responsibility is to leave it to them either as we found it or better than we found it.” -- June 19, 1984
04.01.2014	Washington, DC – Calling it a stunning turnaround, Rep. Peter DeFazio today extended his congratulations to Coos Bay Rail Link for its designation as Railway Age’s 2014 Short Line Railroad of the Year. The Coos Bay Rail Link competed against similar railroads from around the entire country. “This is truly a success story,” DeFazio said. “Seven years ago this vital rail line was suddenly shut down, delivering a major economic blow to Southwest Oregon. But thanks to a huge team effort of private industry and local, state and federal leaders, not only has the rail line reopened for business, it’s been recognized as the best in the country. This is a testament to community, state and regional cooperation.” DeFazio has been a long-time supporter of the rail line. In 2005, he helped secure an $8 million federal grant to help the Port of Coos Bay makes repairs to a rail bridge. Two years later, the out-of-state owner of Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad abruptly closed the rail line, causing immediate and unexpected economic hardship to South Coast communities and businesses. Timber companies and other industrial shippers were forced to truck their products, which was not only costlier, but also resulted in congestion on rural highways. Rep. DeFazio worked with the Oregon International Port of Coos Bay and other state and local leaders to develop an action plan. Aided by $17.5 million in state and federal grants, the Port acquired the line in 2009 and established the Coos Bay Rail Link. The line continues to experience huge growth in activity. For more information on the Coos Bay Rail Link, including 2013 statistics, click here.
03.05.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce that ports in Oregon’s Fourth Congressional District will receive an additional $4.5 million for operation and maintenance projects this year. The projects, which include dredging, are critical to local economies and the fishing industry. Today’s announcement comes after the U.S. Congress included $40 million for small ports in the Fiscal Year 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which was enacted in January. In February, Rep. DeFazio wrote a letter to the Army Corps to stress the need for additional funds at Oregon ports. It was co-signed by Senators Wyden and Merkley and Representatives Blumenauer, Bonamici and Schrader. Today, the Army Corps announced how these and other 2014 funds for navigation maintenance would be allocated. In total, Oregon ports received nearly $20 million in new funding. Oregon’s ports and harbors are the lifeblood of the communities they serve. One in six Oregon jobs is directly or indirectly tied to cargo, recreation, industrial, commercial or other activity at Oregon’s ports. These ports also support the activities of federal agencies, such as the U.S. Coast Guard. Ports require routine dredging to ensure they are safe and operational, but have been severely underfunded for several years. “I’m pleased to announce today that southwest Oregon ports will receive an additional $4.5 million which will be used for dredging this season, in time for summer sport fishing and for commercial fleets. This is truly good news. The funds will be a boost to local economies, providing our fishermen safer access and a good summer recreation season.” The breakdown for southwest Oregon ports in Rep. DeFazio’s district is as follows: Chetco (Brookings): $696,000 Coquille (Bandon): $413,000 Port Orford: $1,262,000 Rogue River (Gold Beach): $638,000 Suislaw: $698,000 Umpqua (Reedsport/Salmon Harbor): $861,000
02.20.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio, ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, joined Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and 120 other members of the House of Representatives to send a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, urging him to continue to push for a robust, fully enforceable environment chapter in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal. “TPP must include new and robust commitments for member countries to protect and conserve forests, oceans, and wildlife and obligate member countries to comply with both domestic environmental laws, not derogating from those laws, and meet their commitments under multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs),” the letter reads. “These commitments must be strong, binding and enforceable, and subject to the same dispute settlement procedures as the commercial chapters, including recourse to trade sanctions.” Recently leaked documents, referenced by the New York Times, make it clear that the U.S. is under great pressure from other countries to weaken strong environmental protections in the TPP. This letter urges the Ambassador not to allow reluctant partners or artificial timelines to steal away the historic opportunity he has led to secure environmental protections capable of generating benefits for decades to come. “I’m pleased over 120 of my colleagues joined Rep. Blumenauer and I in pushing the US to adopt strong, binding, enforceable environmental standards that will better address climate change, safeguard finite natural resources, and protect American businesses,” said DeFazio. “If TPP is really a ‘21st century trade agreement’ we must deal with global environmental problems such as illegal wildlife trafficking and poaching, illegal fishing, shark finning, and illegal logging. TPP should not reward trading partners that undermine our international environmental agreements and have weak environmental and labor standards.” “In a region with a weak history of protecting its rich natural resources from exploitation, the U.S. has an opportunity to secure a robust, fully enforceable environment chapter in TPP,” said Blumenauer. “If done correctly, this will be about more than just conservation. It will enable the US to undercut the black market in illegally sourced plants and wildlife, while at the same time leveling the playing field for U.S. companies consistently placed at a disadvantage because of poor or unevenly enforced environmental laws in other TPP countries.” The full letter and list of signatories are attached and can be found linked here.
02.05.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Oregon Representative Peter DeFazio and Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley applauded the Obama Administration’s selection of Oregon State University to be one of seven Regional Hubs for Risk Adaptation and Mitigation to Climate Change. As announced by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the OSU Hub will address increasing risks due to climate change such as fires, invasive pests, devastating floods and crippling droughts in the Pacific Northwest. “Oregon State University has long been a leader in climate change research so it makes perfect sense the Obama Administration chose it to be one of seven Climate Hubs in the country,” Rep. DeFazio said. “By combining OSU’s body of work with federal funding, our region will be better-equipped than ever before to not only understand but to take action against the devastating effects of climate change, whether it’s reduced snowpack or more severe and frequent wildfires. The information developed and analyzed at OSU will benefit communities across the Pacific Northwest, providing critical information to our fishermen, foresters, ranchers, farmers and vintners.” “Climate change is the paramount environmental challenge of our time, and farmers, ranchers, and the forest products industry are already grappling with its effects,” Senator Wyden said. “Science tells us that these industries can be a part of the solution to reduce emissions, and also that they could get hammered if they don't have the best information about how to adapt. I’m glad Secretary Vilsack has chosen the Pacific Northwest Research Station in Corvallis to provide Oregon’s agriculture sector with the tools it needs to address the threat of climate change.” “Carbon pollution is a direct assault on the Northwest’s farming, fishing and forestry,” Senator Merkley said. “We need strategies to both combat climate change and to help our iconic natural resource industries adapt to the changes that are already happening. I am pleased that the administration has recognized OSU’s role as a climate research leader and is acting to help put these strategies in place.” According to the USDA, nearly one quarter of the land in Oregon, Washington and Idaho is agricultural. The region produces over half of the nation’s potato crop, about 17 percent of the nation’s wheat and 11 percent of the U.S. milk supply. To see the press release from Secretary Vilsack, click here.
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today joined 102 Democrats and 63 Republicans to vote no on a five-year, $956 billion farm bill. Despite positive gains for organic producers, Rep. DeFazio was strongly opposed to the bill’s subsidies for corporate farms and its cuts to federal food stamps that would affect an estimated 80,000 Oregonians. The Oregon Food Bank and Partners for a Hunger-Free Oregon also opposed the bill. The bill ultimately passed the House in a 251-166 vote. Rep. DeFazio released this statement: “Today’s vote was not easy. The farm bill included a number of provisions that were great for organic farmers, a sector I have long championed. The provisions included funding to help organic farmers and specialty crop producers in Oregon, and it reflected the recognition that organic farmers are an increasingly important part of our agricultural economy. “However, this bill would inflict draconian cuts upon tens of thousands of struggling Oregonians. That was a deal-breaker for me. I cannot support a bill that would reduce benefits for needy Americans in order to pay for a massive new crop insurance program that would cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars to insure farmers against market risk – risk that is greatly amplified by Wall Street speculation. Once again, someone dreamed up a scheme – and got it written into the farm bill -- that would benefit Wall Street at the expense of people who still struggle to put food on the table each day, and that is why I had to vote no.” The bill now moves to the Senate.
01.28.2014	Washington, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, the President laid out his plan of action for a stronger America. I appreciated the President’s emphasis on the need for jobs critical to Oregon’s Fourth Congressional District. As he mentioned, this can come from investments in America’s infrastructure, including ports, highways and transit systems. I am pleased the President has joined my efforts to reign in patent troll litigation. These frivolous lawsuits are bleeding billions of dollars from America’s innovators every year. The House has acted; now the Senate must follow through to do its part to protect business owners. Like the President, I strongly agree that it’s time for Congress to renew unemployment insurance. This is a critical issue for the 25,000 Oregonians who have already lost their benefits, and the estimated additional 50,000 who stand to lose their benefits by the end of the year. These Oregonians are still struggling to make ends meet in a job market where there are five applicants for every one job opening. The President is right to call for action on climate change. Tonight, he laid down a strong marker on this multi-generational challenge. Right now I am working on a strong legislative proposal to reverse what I believe is the greatest environmental challenge of our time. While I appreciate much of the President’s message, I am strongly opposed to his proposal to push for yet another job-killing trade deal. Fast-track authority and the Trans-Pacific Partnership would be another blow to the middle class. During my time in Congress I have opposed every free trade agreement, including NAFTA, because despite promises to the contrary, they ultimately lead to more jobs being shipped overseas.”
01.17.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement of new reforms regarding the National Security Agency and other agencies: “Today President Obama began a much-needed conversation concerning civil liberties, the right to privacy and national security. However, while the President is proposing positive steps, I don’t believe they go far enough. Much of the abuse of power took place under overly broad, potentially unconstitutional provisions of the USA Patriot Act. Congress needs to revisit that law and impose the appropriate changes to protect the civil rights of Americans. Ultimately, Congress will need to be included and engaged in every part of the process to ensure the greatest possible protections for all Americans. I will continue to be a champion of individuals’ right to privacy, especially as technology changes and the way we communicate evolves.”
01.16.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) joined members of Congress and more than 200 businesses and organizations today to support a letter sent to President Obama. The letter encourages the President to fulfill his 2007 pledge to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) adopt a national mandatory GMO labeling system. Signatories of the letter include Oregon Tilth, Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream, Amy’s Kitchen, Annie’s Homegrown, Inc., Applegate, Stonyfield Farm, Nature’s Path Foods, the Center for Food Safety, Just Label It, and Environmental Working Group. Rep. DeFazio has long supported a standard that would empower consumers to know what’s in the food they eat. In April 2013, he and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act, legislation that would require the FDA to clearly label genetically engineered (GE) foods. Rep. DeFazio’s House bill has 50 co-sponsors. While the FDA requires the labeling of more than 3,000 ingredients, additives and processes, the agency has resisted labels for genetically modified food. “It’s time the FDA’s policies reflect 21st century food technologies. After all, twenty years ago they didn’t have corn that could produce its own insecticide,” DeFazio said. “Plain and simple, this is about consumer rights. People should have the ability to make an informed choice about what they feed their family and we know it’s not an impossible request of food manufacturers, because they already label GMOs in more than sixty countries. Food manufacturers can and should offer that same standard right here in the U.S.” You can find a link to the letter to President Obama here.
01.13.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio has announced two public forums in Oregon’s Fourth District to discuss Fast Track Authority and the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Rep. DeFazio will be joined by a panel of experts at both locations to discuss the environmental impacts and U.S. job losses that could result should the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal be approved. Specifics of the forums are below: Tuesday, January 21st 5:00 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Boys and Girls Club, 1112 NW Circle Blvd., Corvallis Wednesday, January 22nd 6:00 p.m.-7:30 p.m. EMU Fir Room, University of Oregon, Main Level, 1228 University St., Eugene Fast Track Authority grants power to the executive branch to negotiate free trade agreements with little input from Congress. When a free trade agreement is submitted under fast track procedures Congress must pass it within 90 days with an up or down vote, no amendments, and limited debate. In the absence of fast track authority, Congress can fully consider these agreements, determine the economic impacts, and amend them to protect American jobs and workers. Rep. DeFazio opposes both Fast Track Authority and the Trans-Pacific Partnership. If you would like to arrange an interview with Rep. DeFazio in advance of the forums, please contact Kerry Arndt at 202-225-6416 or kerry.arndt@mail.house.gov. ###
01.09.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) has issued a statement in response to a bill that would give President Obama the authority to fast track U.S. trade deals. The bill, introduced today, is sponsored by Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT), Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Rep. Dave Camp (R-Mi). Fast track authority grants power to the executive branch to negotiate free trade agreements with little congressional input. When a free trade agreement is submitted under fast track procedures Congress must pass it within 90 days with an up or down vote, no amendments, and limited debate. In the absence of fast track authority, Congress can fully consider these agreements, determine the economic impacts, and amend them to protect American jobs and workers. “Fast track authority flies in the face of our democratic process. Under Article I Section 8 of the Constitution, Congress has the sole authority to regulate trade with foreign nations and I will not idly stand by as trade agreements are rammed down the country’s throat. “Additionally, this bill is the first step toward ratifying the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is considered NAFTA on steroids. TPP alters U.S. trade policy in a manner that will deliver another blow to U.S. manufacturing and middle class jobs, strip crucial environmental protections and worker safety standards, and threaten Internet freedom. That’s just the start. This is a wolf in sheep’s clothing and I will not stand for it.”
01.07.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today called on leaders of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee to hold a hearing to investigate the safety of rail cars used to carry hazardous materials across the U.S. The Congressman’s request comes one week after a train derailment and fire near Casselton, North Dakota. The derailment prompted a warning from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, which stated that the type of crude oil being transported from North Dakota may be more flammable than traditional heavy crude oil. “This was not the first incident of its type, and I fear, not the last,” DeFazio said. “It’s beyond irresponsible to ignore. The combination of unsafe rail cars, mixed with exceptionally dangerous oil, is a recipe for disaster. These trains travel thousands of miles through our country, including directly through big cities. Do we really want to wait for a major incident with mass casualties in the U.S. before someone takes action? I don’t think so.” The full text of DeFazio’s letter is below. Dear Chairmen Shuster and Denham and Ranking Members Rahall and Brown: The recent derailment and resulting fire on a train carrying crude oil near Casselton, North Dakota, is just the latest in a string of accidents that call into question the safety of rail cars carrying hazardous materials. That’s why I am writing to request that the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hold a hearing as soon as possible to examine the safety of our nation’s rail cars, specifically DOT-111 tank cars that are used to transport crude oil. For years the safety of DOT-111 tank cars has been a concern of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). According to a March 2012 letter from the Chairman of the NTSB to the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), “DOT-111 tank cars have a high incidence of tank failures during accidents. Previous NTSB investigations that identified the poor performance of DOT-111 tank cars include a May 1991 safety study as well as NTSB investigations of a June 30, 1992, derailment in Superior, Wisconsin; a February 9, 2003, derailment in Tamaroa, Illinois; and an October 20, 2006, derailment of an ethanol unit train in New Brighton, Pennsylvania.”[i] But, it was a derailment in Cherry Valley, Illinois, on June 19, 2009, that led NTSB to make the following safety recommendations to PHMSA in that same March 2012 letter: Require that all newly manufactured and existing general service tank cars authorized for transportation of denatured fuel ethanol and crude oil in Packing Groups I and II have enhanced tank head and shell puncture resistance systems and top fittings protection that exceeds existing design requirements for DOT-111 tank cars. (R-12-5) Require that all bottom outlet valves used on newly manufactured and existing non-pressure tank cars are designed to remain closed during accidents in which the valve and operating handle are subjected to impact forces. (R-12-6) Require that all newly manufactured and existing tank cars authorized for transportation of hazardous materials have center sill or draft sill attachment designs that conform to the revised Association of American Railroads’ design requirements adopted as a result of Safety Recommendation R-12-9. (R-12-7)[ii] The number of carloads of oil being shipped by rail has increased dramatically in recent years as a result of increased oil production from the Bakken region; and, just last week, PHMSA issued preliminary guidance indicating “that the type of crude oil being transported from the Bakken region may be more flammable than traditional heavy crude oil.”[iii] Despite a significant increased in the number of shipments and the likelihood that shipments are more hazardous than previously thought, the safety of the majority of the rail cars carrying these shipments has not increased. In March 2011, the American Association of Railroads petitioned PHMSA to request that it adopt new standards developed by AAR’s North American Tank Car Committee for packing group I and II hazardous materials, which includes DOT-111 crude oil. AAR decided to go ahead and adopt these standards in July 2011 and all new tank cars ordered after October 2011 meet these higher standards. Currently 25 percent of the tank cars used to move crude oil met the AAR standards, but the other 75 percent of tank cars do not. PHMSA has not yet developed its own standards or adopted those created by AAR. Meanwhile, no action has been taken to retrofit existing cars or phase out the current fleet of cars which have an average life span of 30 to 40 years. In September of 2013, PHMSA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to improve the safety of rail tank car transportation. It is my understanding that PHMSA is currently going through comments it received and has begun an economic and policy analysis of potential regulatory actions. But, a rulemaking process will take months, if not years and I don’t think Congress should wait. The Federal Government must ensure that the rail cars being used to ship crude oil from the Bakken region will keep the crude oil contained, controlled and the public protected when accidents inevitably occur. That’s why I am requesting that the committee hold a hearing to further examine this issue. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress [i] & [i]i Deborah Hersman, Chairman of National Transportation Safety Board to Cynthia Quarterman Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, March 2, 2012 [iii] Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration--Safety Alert, “Preliminary Guidance from OPERATING CLASSIFICATION,” January 2, 2014
12.30.2013	Washington, DC – In light of the train derailment today near Casselton, North Dakota, Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4), a senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, released the following statement: “Thankfully, it appears no lives were lost in today’s derailment, but this should serve as a strong reminder that it’s time to take rail car safety more seriously. I have long been concerned about the safety and security of rail tank cars transporting hazardous materials across the U.S. It’s my sincere hope that officials do not simply chalk this up as an unavoidable accident and move on,” DeFazio said. “The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to improve the safety of railroad tank car transportation in September. But, a rulemaking process will take months, if not years, and I don’t think Congress can wait,” DeFazio said. “There are upgrades that can be made to existing rail cars in the short-term, while the industry works to replace existing cars with new cars that meeting stronger standards. The federal government can and should be doing more to ensure that trains, often carrying hazardous materials and running right through populated areas, are not going to cause loss of life and property. As trains carry an increasing amount of hazardous materials, we need common sense rules and regulations to keep safety a priority. It is simply unacceptable to put profits over safety.” Rep. DeFazio will continue to monitor the investigation out of North Dakota. In addition, Rep. DeFazio sends his gratitude to emergency responders on the scene of the train derailment.
12.19.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) released a new county-by-county breakdown of the number of people in Oregon who would immediately lose all of their unemployment insurance on Dec. 28 if Congress fails to extend the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program. Republicans last week blocked an effort by House Democrats to extend the program into 2014. Overall, about 20,000 people in Oregon are set to lose their federal extended unemployment insurance coverage immediately on Dec. 28. While around 2,200 of these individuals are likely to be eligible for state benefits based on their work history, up to an additional 29,000 people in Oregon could lose their coverage in the first six months of 2014 if Republicans continue to block an extension of the program. “This is a gut punch to out-of-work Oregonians right in the middle of the holiday season,” said Blumenauer. “Families in Multnomah and Clackamas Counties in my district will be the first and third hardest hit, respectively, by this failure to extend unemployment insurance. It’s shameful that House Republicans always seem to be able to find time to cut food aid for hungry families or extend giveaways to large agribusiness, but can’t find time to help out families when they need it most.” "As the numbers show, this economic downturn has been especially cruel to many of our neighbors,” said DeFazio. “The bottom line: jobs are still scarce across the state. While we work on long-term plans to create good-paying jobs in the U.S., it is unacceptable for Republicans to turn their backs on our most vulnerable citizens, all while making sure corporate tax loopholes are left intact." “It is unconscionable that House leadership did not let us vote on legislation to extend unemployment benefits before adjourning for the year,” said Bonamici. “Even though the Speaker did not keep the House in session to pass an extension, as many of my colleagues and I requested, I will continue to urge him to take this up immediately upon our return in January. I hope we can extend these benefits and provide certainty to those individuals and families struggling to make ends meet.” Federal extended unemployment insurance took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as Americans continue to recover from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Despite the real progress the economy has made since its near collapse in 2008, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began and long-term unemployment as a percentage of the unemployed is 37 percent, near historic highs. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would also hurt job growth throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. The CEA estimates that in Oregon alone, failing to extend the program will cost 3,829 jobs. The county-by-county breakdown, based on the total number of people in Oregon currently receiving federal unemployment insurance, is below. The information was provided by the Oregon Employment Department. COUNTY # of People Losing Coverage Dec. 28 BAKER COUNTY 64 BENTON COUNTY 204 CLACKAMAS COUNTY 1,705 CLATSOP COUNTY 146 COLUMBIA COUNTY 284 COOS COUNTY 369 CROOK COUNTY 147 CURRY COUNTY 98 DESCHUTES COUNTY 863 DOUGLAS COUNTY 569 GILLIAM COUNTY 6 GRANT COUNTY 35 HARNEY COUNTY 40 HOOD RIVER COUNTY 83 JACKSON COUNTY 1,080 JEFFERSON COUNTY 65 JOSEPHINE COUNTY 490 KLAMATH COUNTY 390 LAKE COUNTY 36 LANE COUNTY 1,604 LINCOLN COUNTY 178 LINN COUNTY 659 MALHEUR COUNTY 69 MARION COUNTY 1,490 MORROW COUNTY 29 MULTNOMAH COUNTY 3,637 OUT OF STATE(WA, ID, & CA) 826 POLK COUNTY 318 SHERMAN COUNTY 5 TILLAMOOK COUNTY 114 UMATILLA COUNTY 363 UNION COUNTY 93 WALLOWA COUNTY 25 WASCO COUNTY 121 WASHINGTON COUNTY 2,358 WHEELER COUNTY 1 YAMHILL COUNTY 482 OUT OF STATE (other states) 1,021 Total 20,067
12.11.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) is now the lead Democrat on a bipartisan bill, the Prohibiting In-Flight Voice Communications on Mobile Wireless Devices Act of 2013, to prohibit wireless voice services on commercial flights above 10,000 feet. The bill, introduced by House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster, is a response to the Federal Communications Commission’s recent announcement that it would review, and possibly reverse, the current ban on mobile wireless services on airplanes. While Rep. DeFazio supports the use of cell phones on airplanes for non-voice services such as text messaging, email or internet browsing, he is adamantly opposed to cell phone calls during flights. This is consistent with public opinion. Numerous polls, including a 2012 Apex/CEA poll, show that more than 60 percent of Americans oppose cell phone calls on planes. Rep. DeFazio has long been a leader on this issue. In 2008 he introduced the bipartisan HANG UP Act, which was the first bill in Congress to prohibit cell phone calls on planes. “Imagine being stuck between two passengers who are carrying on personal phone conversations. There is absolutely no escape. How long will it be before a fight breaks out mid-flight?” DeFazio asked. “Furthermore, it’s irresponsible to leave flight attendants on their own to deal with hostile situations. The flight attendants, who are the first responders in the event of an emergency, should never be distracted by a hot-headed passenger who refuses to end an inappropriate conversation.” In addition to co-sponsoring the legislation, Rep. DeFazio will send FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler a letter with the signatures of 60 House members, asking the FCC to keep its ban on cell phone calls on planes. The letter will be sent in advance of the December 12th meeting, during which the proposal will be discussed. The full text of the letter to Chairman Wheeler is below. Dear Chairman Wheeler, We respectfully ask that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) not open the door to wireless voice services being used by passengers on airplanes above 10,000 feet. It has come to our attention that on December 12th the FCC will consider a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to revise current rules governing mobile wireless services on airplanes. We are in support of new options for airline passengers to safely use wireless data for non-voice services such as text messaging, email, and internet browsing; but we are adamantly opposed to the use of cellular voice services during flights. The majority of Americans have rejected the idea of cell phone calls during flights. Numerous polls, including a 2012 Apex/CEA poll, have shown that over 60% of Americans are opposed to the idea. Some polls, such as a recent Today Show instant poll, have shown overwhelming 90% opposition. Regardless of technological feasibility, it is evident that Americans do not want to fly in a cabin full of people talking on cell phones. Even if the FCC were to find that cell phones on airplanes did not cause any signal interference, airborne cell phone conversations would have other safety implications. It has been demonstrated that people talking on cell phones were much less likely to aid someone in need*. Numerous other studies have demonstrated that cell phone conversations are particularly irritating and distracting to people nearby. The combination of these factors could make it much more difficult for crewmembers to give instructions and count on passenger assistance during an emergency. Altercations between passengers over cell phone use could also result in flight attendants having to act as referees to mitigate “air rage.” As is stated on your website, the FCC provides “leadership for consumers, public safety, accessibility, competition and technological and economic opportunity.” We urge you to not forget about the first item on that list, American consumers. Consumers would benefit from new opportunities to use wireless devices for non-voice activities on airplanes, but they have made clear that they do not want their seatmate to be talking on a cell phone for the entire flight. In light of public opinion and potential safety implications, we ask that you reject any proposal to permit airline passengers to use cellular voice services on airborne planes. * Banjo, Hu, and Sundar (2008). Cell Phone Usage and Social Interaction with Proximate Others. Penn State University. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio, Michael Grimm, Timothy H. Bishop, Earl Blumenauer, Madeline Z. Bordallo, Robert A. Brady, Julia Brownley, Lois Capps, Michael E. Capuano, Steve Cohen, Jim Cooper, Gerald E. Connolly, Jim Costa, John J. Duncan Jr., Keith Ellison, Elizabeth H. Esty, Sam Farr, Tulsi Gabbard, Gene Green, Raul M. Grijalva, Janice Hahn, Michael M. Honda, Henry C. Johnson Jr., Walter B. Jones, David P. Joyce, William R. Keating, Derek Kilmer, Barbara Lee, Sander M. Levin, David Loebsack, Stephen F. Lynch, Betty McCollum, James P. McGovern, David B. McKinley, Ann McLane Kuster, Patrick Meehan, Michael H. Michaud, George Miller, Patrick Murphy, Richard M. Nolan, Charles B. Rangel, Lucille Roybal-Allard, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Janice D. Schakowsky, Aaron Schock, Allyson Y. Schwartz, Carol Shea-Porter, Albio Sires, Jackie Speier, Eric Swalwell, Mark Takano, John F. Tierney, Dina Titus, Paul D. Tonko, Marc A. Veasey, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Frederica S. Wilson, Peter Welch, Don Young
12.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today Rep. DeFazio applauded the passage of H.R. 3309, the Innovation Act. It passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, with a final vote of 325-91. DeFazio is the lead Democratic cosponsor of the bill, which would protect inventors, startups, retailers, and other innovators from patent trolls. The legislation must now be considered by the Senate. DeFazio is credited with drawing attention to the issue in Congress two years ago, after he heard from a small software company in his district that had been targeted. The business owner told DeFazio that they were forced to delay a product launch and put off hiring because they were forced to pay off a patent troll. “Unfortunately this is not a unique situation. Patent trolls extract billions of dollars a year from innovators across the country,” DeFazio said. “However, the trolls were dealt a bipartisan blow today when the House passed the Innovation Act, bringing us a step closer to stopping this lucrative extortion racket. I hope the Senate will promptly take up this bipartisan bill.” Patent trolls use broad patents to threaten companies – large and small –with lawsuits in hopes of extorting a quick settlement. It works like this: One day a company gets a letter in the mail suggesting that one of their products infringes on a vague patent that they have never heard of. The letter usually doesn’t say which product infringes or the nature of the infringement, but it demands thousands of dollars to settle the issue. The company could go to court to prove they didn’t violate any laws but that could cost well over $1 million. The company often chooses to pay the patent troll’s smaller demand to make the lawsuit go away, even if they never did anything wrong. This type of patent troll lawsuit costs American companies an estimated $29 billion every year. The Innovation Act deters these shady lawsuits by increasing transparency and making sure that patent trolls take financial responsibility for their accusations, by doing the following: Requires plaintiffs to disclose who the owner of a patent is before litigation, so that it is clear who the real parties behind the litigation are. This will ensure that patent trolls cannot hide behind a web of shell companies to avoid accountability for bringing frivolous litigation. Requires plaintiffs to actually explain why they are suing a company in their court pleadings. Requires courts to make decisions early in the litigation process so that patent trolls cannot drag patent cases on for years based on invalid claims. When parties bring lawsuits or claims that have no reasonable basis in law and fact, the Innovation Act requires judges to award attorneys’ fees to the victims of the frivolous lawsuit. To see Rep. DeFazio’s speech on the House Floor, click here. --30--
11.20.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, blasted Republicans on the House floor for proposing legislation that would strip federal agencies’ authority to enforce nearly every public health, safety, and environmental protection related to drilling and drilling impacts. H.R. 2728 would block agency enforcement of the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, oil and gas operations in National Parks and Wildlife refuges, and other critical safety regulations. “The latest Republican attack on critical health, safety, and environmental protections is being sold as a so-called ‘states’ rights bill’ that would only block a proposed fracking rule. But it is written so poorly, and so broadly, it would essentially strip the federal government’s authority to enforce nearly ­any regulation on the books related to drilling and drilling impacts. It would truly allow companies on public lands to drill anywhere, at anytime, with no rules. Republicans have wasted yet another day with extreme, campaign talking point legislation that has no chance in the Senate,” DeFazio said. H.R. 2728 passed the Republican-held House on nearly a party line vote, 235 to 187. Here is a partial list of the federal laws, rules, and regulations that could not be enforced if H.R. 2728 were to become law: The Endangered Species Act The Migratory Bird Treaty Act Oil and gas operations in National Park Service units Oil and gas operations in National Wildlife Refuges Casing & Cementing regulations (casing and cementing was the primary cause of the Deepwater Horizon explosion) Wastewater management regulations Plugging and abandonment regulations Best management practices for oil & gas drilling on public lands Timing limits to protect wildlife Protections for sacred sites, historic trails, fisheries, wetlands DeFazio also addressed the need for federal fracking regulations today on the House floor. For the video, click here.
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House approved H.R. 3350 – “Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013.” The bill would allow Americans to continue purchasing individual policies for one more year from health insurance companies, even if the plan does not meet the requirements of the Affordable Care Act. The final vote was 261 to 157. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) issued the following statement: “I have never pretended that the Affordable Care Act is perfect. From the day this law was enacted, I have made it clear that I am willing to work with members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to pass common sense fixes to the law. Today’s bill is an example of one of those fixes and that’s why I joined with Democrats and Republicans to make it easier for Oregonians who like their insurance plan to keep that plan. “I agree with the idea that people with existing policies should be able to keep them another year. While this bill would improve the ACA, it would not force insurance companies to do the right thing and allow anyone who wants to keep the plan they have. It is likely that some people could still end up with canceled policies. I have asked the Oregon Insurance Commissioner to require insurance providers to offer current plans for another year to make sure Oregonians who want to keep their existing plans are able to.”
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Patrick Meehan (PA-07) and Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today introduced bipartisan legislation to block the opening of a United States Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) pre-clearance facility in the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.). The proposed facility threatens American jobs and helps foreign national carriers at the expense of domestic airlines. “It’s ridiculous that U.S. government policy would encourage travelers to use foreign airlines instead of U.S. carriers,” said Meehan. “While pursuing strong border and customs policies, we should not be hurting American workers by giving an advantage to a state-subsidized foreign airline. This bipartisan bill will correct this misguided policy.” “It’s absolutely outrageous,” said DeFazio, “that the Department of Homeland Security wants to use taxpayer dollars to fund a facility in Abu Dhabi that would give a competitive advantage to the UAE’s state-owned airline at the expense of US airlines and airline employees. DHS needs to get its priorities straight. Every day, hundreds of thousands of American travelers wait in long customs lines at our nation’s airports. Funds would be better spent reducing wait times at US airports for US passengers.” The CBP pre-clearance facility, to be located at the Abu Dhabi International airport, will allow international travelers coming to the United States to clear the customs process before their arrival. However, there is only one airline with regular service from Abu Dhabi to the United States: the state-run airline of the U.A.E., Etihad. The location of the pre-clearance facility in Abu Dhabi will give Etihad a competitive advantage as travelers choose to route themselves through Abu Dhabi to undergo pre-clearance. The legislation also sets requirements for which DHS can open a new CBP preclearance facility, and requires DHS to provide several Congressional committees with an assessment of the effect on national security and the economic impact. Since learning of the proposed preclearance facility, Meehan and DeFazio have worked together to build wide bipartisan, bicameral support to block it. The Meehan DeFazio legislation has 55 cosponsors.
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded the passage of a bipartisan bill that will boost funding for harbor maintenance and provide critical resources to small Oregon ports. The legislation, called the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013 (WRRDA), gives the Army Corps of Engineers the authorization it needs to move forward with overdue navigation, flood control and environmental restoration projects. For years, Oregon’s coastal communities have been in economic limbo as the Corps’ dredging and maintenance projects were underfunded and the backlogs of unmet needs grew. With the bill’s passage, the U.S. will make investments in its infrastructure, preventing much more costly fixes in the future. Under current law there is no money set aside for small ports, but DeFazio successfully advocated for a guarantee that ten percent of funds would be set aside for harbor maintenance directed to critical projects for small ports. “Today the tide turned for some of Oregon’s coastal communities. The federal government will no longer shirk its responsibility to safeguard infrastructure that is critical to thousands of fishing jobs and our local economies,” DeFazio said. “These communities have been neglected for too long. This legislation will ensure that our most critical needs will be met in our ports and harbors—no matter what size.” In addition, DeFazio offered an amendment to the WRRDA bill that focused on getting ports back in business, rather than undermining critical environmental protections and public participation under the National Environmental Policy Act and other conservation laws. The amendment was defeated, but 183 lawmakers, including 2 Republicans, joined DeFazio in support of the amendment. “Congress doesn’t need to sidestep critical conservation laws and the environmental review process to speed up approved water resource projects—Congress needs to fund these projects. If we stopped short-changing the Army Corps in the budgeting process we could begin to deal with the $40 billion backlog of critical projects. I objected to the so-called environmental streamlining provisions in this bill and offered an amendment that would require Congress to fully fund approved projects before implementing any new environmental shortcuts. I will continue to fight efforts to roll back environmental protections as we move forward in the legislative process. ” The legislation passed by a vote of 417 to 3. The bill is now ready to be reconciled with legislation passed by the Senate earlier this year. YouTube video of Rep. DeFazio’s WRRDA House Floor Speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NyPaCoGhTyM&feature=youtu.be
10.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 1, 2013 DeFazio Opposes Republican Demand To Shut Down the Federal Government WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR issued the following statement in response to the shutdown of the federal government: “The Tea Party conservatives are holding the federal government hostage because they don’t have the votes to repeal the Affordable Care Act,” said DeFazio. “There are many laws I don’t agree with, but I work to amend and improve them, not bring the entire government to a standstill.” “I am happy to work with moderate and conservative republicans to break the Tea Party grip on Congress. Their radical politics begin with a fundamental opposition to the federal government, which makes it impossible for them to effectively govern. Most Republicans I know still believe the federal government is necessary. I support a clean spending bill that keeps the government open and if that bill was given a vote on the House floor, it would pass today with bipartisan support.” “This government shutdown will deny countless essential government services to Americans, send hundreds of thousands of federal employees home without pay, and further erode the reputation of the U.S. government.” “As damaging as a federal government shutdown will be, the Tea Party republicans are also threatening to block an increase to the country’s debt ceiling, which is expected to be reached in the coming weeks. The failure of the United States to pay its bills would quickly shred any confidence in the U.S. bond market. Interest rates will skyrocket harming American pocketbooks, the federal budget, and send our economy into a tailspin. It is no wonder that only 10% of Americans approve of the job Congress is doing today. We must stop the hostage taking before the Tea Party does more economic damage to our nation.” Link to video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gemCGntdLas&feature=youtu.be -30-
09.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 25, 2013 HOUSE PASSES TIMBER PAYMENTS FOR STRUGGLING RURAL COUNTIES House has passed both short and long-term solutions for 18 O&C counties WASHINGTON, DC- The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that would provide a temporary one-year extension of vital Secure Rural Schools (SRS) payments to rural Oregon counties on the brink of financial disaster. This was a critical step in a two-part legislative plan to help 18 cash-strapped O&C counties that are struggling to provide basic services like law enforcement, road maintenance, and public health. Today’s temporary extension of SRS in H.Res 354 will provide transition payments for these counties until a long-term solution is implemented. Last Friday, the House passed a bipartisan, long-term O&C solution that helps create private sector jobs, provides revenues to 18 cash-strapped Oregon counties, and permanently protects old growth and other irreplaceable environmental treasures in Western Oregon. The bill is now awaiting action in the Senate. DeFazio issued the following statement after passage: “This legislation enables us to fund vital Secure Rural School payments to keep struggling rural counties afloat and reduce the federal deficit. The Senate sent over a bill that required a technical fix because it violated House of Representative budget rules. Luckily, a bipartisan coalition on the House Resources Committee was able to act quickly, fix the problem, pass it out of the House and send it back to the Senate for quick passage. “For the 18 O&C counties on the brink of financial disaster, these SRS transition payments are one essential step in a two-step process. Ultimately, O&C counties need a long-term solution that breaks us out of the decades-long logjam on federal forest policy, puts thousands of Oregonians back to work, improves forest health and protects our environment, and disentangles the health of rural county budgets from these unpredictable and diminishing federal support payments. The House passed a bipartisan, balanced long-term solution last week, and today we passed these critical transition payments. I hope the Senate will act quickly to make any necessary changes so the bill can be passed out of that chamber and signed by president.” --30--
09.23.2013	Rep. DeFazio announced the cancellation of the town halls he had scheduled for Wednesday September 25th and Thursday September 26th. DeFazio was scheduled to hold 16 town hall meetings across Southwest Oregon from September 23rd-26th. Because of a last minute decision by House Republican leadership to change the schedule and hold votes beginning Wednesday evening in Washington, DC, DeFazio is forced to cancel the second half of his scheduled town halls. Town halls scheduled for Monday September 23rd and Tuesday September 24th will occur as scheduled. As a replacement for the cancelled town halls and to ensure he can hear from as many Oregonians as possible, DeFazio has scheduled a telephone town hall for 6pm PDT Tuesday October 1st. Please fill out the following form with your phone number if you would like to participate: Loading... “Unless Congress passes a spending bill that the President will sign by September 30th, the federal government will shut down. The Republican majority is refusing to compromise on this short-term spending bill and have now cancelled the recess scheduled for next week,” said DeFazio. “Instead of talking with you at a town hall, I will be back in Washington, DC, voting on a bill that should already have been signed into law.” Throughout his time in Congress, DeFazio has held over 300 town hall meetings across Southwest Oregon and developed many legislative initiatives based on conversations with Oregonians at these meetings. DeFazio hopes those constituents who are unable to attend the remaining September town halls will join the October 1st 6pm PST telephone town hall. “It is shameful that Congressional Republicans continue to bring the government to the brink of a shutdown year after year,” said DeFazio. “Congress does need to step up and make some difficult decisions about how to deal with our deficit, but lurching from one manufactured crisis to the next does nothing to solve our budget issues, get the economy back on track, or put Americans to work.” *Please note the deadline to sign up fo the telephone town hall is Sunday, September 29th.
09.20.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 20, 2013 Wed/Thurs Town Halls Canceled House Republicans Call Congress Back Early Washington, DC– Rep. DeFazio today announced the cancellation of the town halls he had scheduled for Wednesday September 25th and Thursday September 26th. DeFazio was scheduled to hold 16 town hall meetings across Southwest Oregon from September 23rd-26th. Because of a last minute decision by House Republican leadership to change the schedule and hold votes beginning Wednesday evening in Washington, DC, DeFazio is forced to cancel the second half of his scheduled town halls. Town halls scheduled for Monday September 23rd and Tuesday September 24th will occur as scheduled. As a replacement for the cancelled town halls and to ensure he can hear from as many Oregonians as possible, DeFazio has scheduled a telephone town hall for 6pm PST Tuesday October 1st. Please send an email through the DeFazio website /contact/email-me with your phone number if you would like to participate. “Unless Congress passes a spending bill that the President will sign by September 30th, the federal government will shut down. The Republican majority is refusing to compromise on this short-term spending bill and have now cancelled the recess scheduled for next week,” said DeFazio. “Instead of talking with you at a town hall, I will be back in Washington, DC, voting on a bill that should already have been signed into law.” Throughout his time in Congress, DeFazio has held over 300 town hall meetings across Southwest Oregon and developed many legislative initiatives based on conversations with Oregonians at these meetings. DeFazio hopes those constituents who are unable to attend the remaining September town halls will join the October 1st 6pm PST telephone town hall. “It is shameful that Congressional Republicans continue to bring the government to the brink of a shutdown year after year,” said DeFazio. “Congress does need to step up and make some difficult decisions about how to deal with our deficit, but lurching from one manufactured crisis to the next does nothing to solve our budget issues, get the economy back on track, or put Americans to work.” Updated town hall schedule:
09.20.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 20, 2013 DeFAZIO-WALDEN-SCHRADER O&C BILL PASSES U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Plan creates jobs & generates up to $90 million a year for rural Oregon counties WASHINGTON, DC- Today, after nearly two years of negotiations, the United States House of Representatives passed the bipartisan O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act (OCTCJA). The legislative proposal from House Natural Resources Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Representatives Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby), would create thousands of private sector jobs in Oregon, provide stable funding for failing Oregon counties, and provide permanent protection for old growth and natural treasures while saving the federal government tens of millions of dollars. The DeFazio-Walden-Schrader plan will generate as much as $90 million a year for struggling rural Oregon counties. The bill also includes critical Secure Rural Schools transition payments that will sustain counties until the long-term management plan is implemented. Under this bill, failing, rural Oregon counties will receive an estimated $166 million for basic government services like education, roads, and law enforcement. DeFazio issued the following statement in response: “Eighteen O&C counties on the brink of financial disaster can rest a little easier today. After two years of negotiations, the House passed our bipartisan, balanced O&C solution that creates private sector jobs, provides revenues to failing counties, and permanently protects old growth and other irreplaceable environmental treasures. This isn’t a perfect bill, and it’s not the bill I would have written if I were in the majority party-- but it’s the start of this legislative process and the only shot we had to move something that protects both our conservation values and vital public services out of the hyper-partisan House of Representatives. “Despite criticism from special interest groups, this bill includes many critical conservation victories. The House hasn’t passed a wilderness bill since the Republicans took over in 2010—yet we were able to double the Rogue Wilderness Area and create new wilderness around the Devil’s Staircase. The majority has fought to undo major environmental protections like the Clean Water Act—yet we were able to add key provisions that will protect over 300,000 acres of land to safeguard drinking water and watersheds. Two court cases in the D.C. circuit court could liquidate the last remaining old growth in Oregon—yet we were able to pass the first ever permanent protection of over 1 million acres of old growth. “As I have said publicly multiple times, three titles that would dramatically change U.S. Forest Service land management in H.R. 1526 will die in the Senate—they will not move forward. I couldn’t vote to let the bipartisan, balanced O&C solution and Secure Rural Schools transition payments die along with it. Oregon needs a solution, and moving this bipartisan O&C compromise forward to the Senate is a significant step. I expect Chairman Ron Wyden will make changes so the bill can pass the Democratically controlled Senate and be signed by the president.” BACKGROUND Last February, DeFazio, Walden and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan legislative proposal to help solve the O&C problems. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth. The proposal has been publicly available on DeFazio’s website for over a year and a half. Based on public feedback and recommendations from Governor Kitzhaber’s O&C panel, a number of changes were made to better protect drinking water and fish bearing streams. The OCTCJA was included as a separate title in a larger piece of forest legislation offered by Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA). COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL LAWS: The bill requires the O&C Trust Lands to be managed in compliance with federal and state laws. The general public will be represented on the Board of Trustees and meetings of the Board involving management decisions will be open to the public. ESTIMATED HARVEST LEVELS: The OCTCJA would produce an estimated 400-500 million board feet per year – less than one third of historic levels. To put the proposal in perspective, more than 3,500,000,000 (3.5 billion) board feet of timber is logged each year in the State of Oregon. The O&C lands currently account for less than six percent of that total. Seventy eight percent comes from private and tribal lands. Private industry lands in Oregon are typically managed on a 30-40 year rotation. The O&C plan requires at least half of the landscape to be managed on a long rotation of between 100-120 years and to be geographically dispersed across the landscape to provide ecological diversity. The plan also minimizes the use of pesticides and provides the first ever legislative protections for mature and old growth forests. WATERSHED AND DRINKING WATER PROTECTIONS: In response to comments received over the last year, including recommendations from Governor Kitzhaber’s task force, several changes were made to better protect Oregonians’ drinking water and fish bearing streams. The OCTJCA protects approximately 20 percent – or 300,000 acres – of the O&C Trust lands to safeguard drinking water and key watersheds. This is four times the protection offered under Oregon State Law. It limits application of herbicides and requires a public process for the development of an integrated Pest Management Plan. During markup of H.R. 1526 in the House Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Napolitano from California offered an amendment to preserve the status quo of herbicide use on the O&C Trust Lands. Mr. DeFazio voted yes. The amendment was defeated on a party line vote. WILDERNESS AND RIVER PROTECTIONS: The plan includes 90,000 acres of new wilderness, 130 miles of new Wild and Scenic river designations, and provides the first legislative protection for more than 1,200,000 acres of mature and old growth forests. The plan also excludes environmentally sensitive areas, parks and recreation areas, wild and scenic corridors, and wilderness areas from the O&C Trust lands. H.R. 1526: H.R. 1526, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act, is a package of five bills (known as titles) related to national forest management. Mr. DeFazio wrote Title III relating to the statutorily unique O&C Lands, which he coauthored with Rep. Greg Walden and Rep. Kurt Schrader. Title V, the final title of H.R. 1526, would extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act (aka “county payments”) for one year at the Fiscal Year 2010 level. This title would provide approximately $166 million to failing, rural Oregon counties for basic government services like education, roads, and law enforcement. Mr. DeFazio supports Titles III and V of H.R. 1526. Titles I, II, and IV were written by Republicans, target U.S. Forest Service Lands (not O&C Lands), and are extremely controversial. Democrats offered an amendment (the Huffman amendment) to completely replace the controversial Titles I, II, and IV with non-controversial and Republican supported forest management provisions. That substitute failed on a party line vote. Mr. DeFazio voted yes on that substitute. The OCTCJA has secured broad support across the state, including: the Oregon House, Oregon Senate, fifteen county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups. --30--
09.11.2013	September 11, 2013 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded newly introduced bipartisan legislation that would boost funding for harbor maintenance and direct critical funding to small Oregon ports. The legislation, called the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013 (WRRDA), authorizes funding for the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) navigation, flood control and environmental restoration projects. DeFazio worked closely with members on both sides of the aisle to ensure that the Corps fulfills its obligation to dredge, rebuild, and maintain ports and harbors both big and small. Under current law there is no money set aside for small ports. DeFazio successfully advocated for a guaranteed 10 percent set aside for harbor maintenance directed to critical projects for small ports. “Small ports up and down the Oregon coast are critical lifelines that support thousands of fishing jobs and fuel local economies. The federal government cannot continue to shirk its responsibility to safeguard our infrastructure. We made a commitment to these communities and they have been neglected for too long. This legislation will ensure that our most critical needs will be met in our ports and harbors—no matter what their size,” said DeFazio. For years, DeFazio has also fought to reverse the diversion of Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) dollars to general government spending. These funds are intended for critical maintenance and dredging in our nation’s ports and harbors. This legislation sets a target to ensure no less than 80% of the funds collected in the HMTF will go to harbor-related projects. “The Corps of Engineers has long been short-changed in the budgeting process leaving it unable to deal with its $40 billion backlog of critical projects. Funds collected for harbor maintenance should be spent on harbor maintenance. This legislation will help ensure the funds collected for harbor maintenance are used for that purpose so we can begin to properly rebuild jetties and do the other work to maintain our locks and channels. This change is long overdue and will go a long way towards creating needed jobs to rebuild critical maritime infrastructure,” said DeFazio. The legislation is expected come up for vote in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the next few weeks. - 30 -
09.11.2013	September 10, 2013 Rep. DeFazio issued the following statement after President Obama's Speech on Syrian Intervention: “The use of chemical weapons by any country against their own civilians is morally reprehensible. Our response should begin with stronger engagement with the international community and the United Nations Security Council. The President is right to delay a vote for authorization of use of force-- the need for or potential effectiveness of U.S. military involvement is questionable at best. We should direct all of our considerable efforts and influence with our allies toward pursuing the opening of a chemical weapons disarmament plan and diplomatic resolution. We need significant U.N. actions that would both disarm the Syrian regime and try those responsible for war crimes in an international tribunal.”
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), the newly elected Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, urged his colleagues on the committee to take quick action on a bipartisan bill to protect high value lands for recreation and public benefit. H.R. 2068, the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Reauthorization Act (FLTFA), introduced by Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) and DeFazio, would allow the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to continue to sell excess federal property and use the revenues to purchase lands to improve federal land management or increase recreational opportunities to the public. Previous FLTFA authorization expired in 2011. “This is a no-brainer. Let’s dispose of federal property the government doesn’t want or can’t maintain and use the revenue to improve public land management, acquire inholdings in national parks, and increase recreational access and opportunities. Republicans support this; Democrats support this. The administration supports this. We have 149 diverse groups on board – including the Sierra Club and the NRA – not your average bedfellows. I think this bill can serve as a template for future bipartisan collaboration on this committee. We should get this done,” said DeFazio. FLTFA was initially authorized in 2000 and allows the BLM to sell lands marked for disposal and retain the proceeds to buy high value private or state parcels encumbered by other federal lands. Over the life of its previous authorization, which expired two years ago, the BLM sold nearly 27,000 acres of surplus land and generated over $117 million in receipts. Revenues from FLTFA have helped fund key acquisitions in Zion National Park, the City of Rocks National Reserve, Grand Teton National Park, Hells Canyon Wilderness, and the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail – just to name a few. FLTFA also helped fund the purchase of Zane Gray’s cabin on the iconic Rogue River in Ranking Member DeFazio’s district. The Lummis-DeFazio bill (H.R. 2068) reauthorizes FLTFA for seven years, expands the definition of “exceptional resources” to include lands that provide recreational access or recreational value to the public, and would require the Department of the Interior to establish an online database of lands marked for disposal to increase transparency. -30-
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) issued the following statement after his selection as Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee by the House Democratic Caucus: “I am honored to have the strong support of my colleagues to lead the caucus as the new Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “The Natural Resource Committee has jurisdiction over all federal lands, our oceans and fisheries, and it is responsible for safeguarding critical protections that keep our air and water clean, and our national treasures safe for future generations. In the coming months, this committee will address critical issues that have a profound impact in every state and territory. "As Ranking Member, I will push for a 21st century energy policy that promotes conservation and the development of renewable resources on federal lands and waters. I will fight to get this committee and Congress moving forward on climate change action. And, I will work with my colleagues to develop sustainable forestry practices that improve forest health, protect irreplaceable old growth, and prevent catastrophic fires. Sustainable forestry and hazardous fuel reduction programs will create needed jobs in rural resource dependent communities. “I will push the committee for overdue reforms to the Mining Reform Act of 1872, including fair royalties for extraction of precious minerals on federal lands. We need to put a new emphasis on the health of our oceans to promote sustainable fisheries in the lower 48 and protect Bristol Bay, the most productive salmon fishery in the world, from risky oil drilling and destructive mining. “I look forward to representing the conservation values of the Democratic Caucus in the House and partnering with the senior Senator from Oregon who chairs a Senate committee which shares jurisdiction over many of the same issues. And I will work hard to find common ground with my neighbor to the north, Doc Hastings on these complex, controversial, and critically important issues.” BACKGROUND Yesterday, the Steering and Policy Committee voted by an overwhelming majority of 33-16 to recommend DeFazio for the Ranking Member position. DeFazio has served as a member of the House Natural Resources Committee for 26 years and is next in line in seniority behind now Senator Ed Markey (D-MA). During his time on the committee, he has served on every subcommittee, chaired a special task force on energy issues, and been involved in legislative battles on every issue before the committee impacting districts from Alaska to the Florida Keys, the Gulf of Maine to the Gulf of Mexico, and everything in between. DeFazio has a lifetime LCV score of 89%- the same score as former Chairman George Miller. Since 1987, DeFazio has helped secure hundreds of thousands of acres of wilderness, passed the largest river protection act in U.S. history outside Alaska, and helped protect rural jobs and communities. He led efforts in both the Natural Resources Committee and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to oppose efforts to preempt the President on his Keystone Pipeline decision, led the floor fight against the Republican proposal to mandate offshore oil leases and refuted their argument that this would lower gas prices. He supports a predictable and tough regulatory approach to reduce carbon emissions like we did for clean water and has actively defended the President’s proposal to limit emissions from power plants. DeFazio was a co-founder of the House Progressive Caucus and is the current co-chair of the Populist Caucus. In addition to the House Natural Resources Committee, DeFazio is a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. -30-
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) issued the following statement after his selection as Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee by the House Democratic Caucus: “I am honored to have the strong support of my colleagues to lead the caucus as the new Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “The Natural Resource Committee has jurisdiction over all federal lands, our oceans and fisheries, and it is responsible for safeguarding critical protections that keep our air and water clean, and our national treasures safe for future generations. In the coming months, this committee will address critical issues that have a profound impact in every state and territory. "As Ranking Member, I will push for a 21st century energy policy that promotes conservation and the development of renewable resources on federal lands and waters. I will fight to get this committee and Congress moving forward on climate change action. And, I will work with my colleagues to develop sustainable forestry practices that improve forest health, protect irreplaceable old growth, and prevent catastrophic fires. Sustainable forestry and hazardous fuel reduction programs will create needed jobs in rural resource dependent communities. “I will push the committee for overdue reforms to the Mining Reform Act of 1872, including fair royalties for extraction of precious minerals on federal lands. We need to put a new emphasis on the health of our oceans to promote sustainable fisheries in the lower 48 and protect Bristol Bay, the most productive salmon fishery in the world, from risky oil drilling and destructive mining. “I look forward to representing the conservation values of the Democratic Caucus in the House and partnering with the senior Senator from Oregon who chairs a Senate committee which shares jurisdiction over many of the same issues. And I will work hard to find common ground with my neighbor to the north, Doc Hastings on these complex, controversial, and critically important issues.” BACKGROUND Yesterday, the Steering and Policy Committee voted by an overwhelming majority of 33-16 to recommend DeFazio for the Ranking Member position. DeFazio has served as a member of the House Natural Resources Committee for 26 years and is next in line in seniority behind now Senator Ed Markey (D-MA). During his time on the committee, he has served on every subcommittee, chaired a special task force on energy issues, and been involved in legislative battles on every issue before the committee impacting districts from Alaska to the Florida Keys, the Gulf of Maine to the Gulf of Mexico, and everything in between. DeFazio has a lifetime LCV score of 89%- the same score as former Chairman George Miller. Since 1987, DeFazio has helped secure hundreds of thousands of acres of wilderness, passed the largest river protection act in U.S. history outside Alaska, and helped protect rural jobs and communities. He led efforts in both the Natural Resources Committee and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to oppose efforts to preempt the President on his Keystone Pipeline decision, led the floor fight against the Republican proposal to mandate offshore oil leases and refuted their argument that this would lower gas prices. He supports a predictable and tough regulatory approach to reduce carbon emissions like we did for clean water and has actively defended the President’s proposal to limit emissions from power plants. DeFazio was a co-founder of the House Progressive Caucus and is the current co-chair of the Populist Caucus. In addition to the House Natural Resources Committee, DeFazio is a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. -30-
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) pressed the U.S. Forest Service to fully fund the hazardous fuel reduction projects under the Healthy Forest Restoration Act (HFRA) to prevent catastrophic wildfires in rural communities. Speaking at a House Natural Resources Subcommittee hearing on wildfire prevention and forest management, DeFazio slammed the agency for a half-hearted commitment to a program proven to protect dry lands in the western United States and reduce the risk of destructive wildfire. “After the Biscuit Fire burned half a million acres in southwestern Oregon over a decade ago, I worked with a bipartisan team from the west to come up with a program that would help prevent massive, devastating wildfires,” said DeFazio. “We came up with HFRA. Unfortunately, Republican and Democratic Administrations have woefully underfunded this fire prevention program, leaving tens of thousands of dried out and dead acres vulnerable to a spark. We need to fully fund this program and begin to manage and restore our forests to reduce the risk of severe wildfires and improve forest health.” HFRA is authorized to receive $760 million per year. But Forest Service funding for hazardous fuel reduction projects has only exceeded $500 million once in the last 15 years. DeFazio secured agreement from Republicans and Democrats on the committee to address the HFRA funding issue. The Forest Service is proposing to cut hazardous fuel reduction funding by $75 million – or 24 percent. The Department of the Interior – which manages millions of acres of forest land in Western Oregon and millions of acres of wildlands in Eastern Oregon - is proposing to cut hazardous fuel reduction projects by $89 million, or 48 percent. DeFazio also pressed the USFS on replacing the decrepit tanker fleet used to fight wildfires in the western United States. To access video, click the following links: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7Ec4utZvNM https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dwbj1hTdElk&feature=youtu.be - 30 -
06.12.2013	JUNE 12, 2013 Republicans block amendment that would have protected $2 billion a year fishing industry WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) offered an amendment in the House Natural Resources Committee that would protect Alaska’s Bristol Bay and thousands of fishing jobs along the West Coast that depend on this prolific and irreplaceable fishery. DeFazio’s amendment would prevent oil drilling in Bristol Bay, protecting it and the $2 billion fishing industry from catastrophic spills or accidents. The Republican legislation would mandate leasing in Bristol Bay, in addition to California, sensitive areas of the Gulf Coast, and the East Coast. “It is absurd to expose a $2 billion per year industry to the risk of a catastrophic oil spill that could devastate coastal communities, destroy the world’s most productive salmon fishery, and cost thousands of jobs,” said DeFazio. “Drilling for oil in Bristol Bay will do nothing to lower the price of gasoline for U.S. drivers or move us closer to energy independence. But a spill or accident could jeopardize the livelihoods of thousands of Americans and wipe out a fishery that produces 40% of the total catch in the country. The uncertain, unlikely benefits of production simply don’t outweigh the real, known risks.” Oil companies already hold rights to more than 30 million offshore acres that they are not producing oil from. This is 85 percent of the offshore acreage under lease. “If the big oil companies are so desperate to drill they should start with the 30 million acres they have leased but left idle instead of a sensitive and irreplaceable area that supports the economies of coastal communities all along the West Coast,” said DeFazio. After the catastrophic Exxon Valdez oil spill, President George H.W. Bush’s administration supported a drilling moratorium and Congress authorized $100 million in taxpayer funds to purchase oil leases in Alaska’s Bristol Bay and protect this vital fishing resource from potential destruction. However, President George W. Bush reversed his father’s decision and lifted the drilling moratorium that protected Bristol Bay for nearly two decades. In 2010, President Obama reversed that policy by excluding the area from drilling in its 2012-2017 outer continental shelf leasing program. DeFazio’s amendment would ensure that the Obama Administration’s decision would not be overturned by Congress. The amendment failed in committee on a straight party line vote. To access video, click the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XKMEstix-ag Or play below. - 30 -
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's plan to stop egregious patent troll lawsuits: “Last year, I visited a small business in my district that was forced to delay hiring new employees because they had to deal with an extortionate lawsuit from a patent troll. After this visit I introduced the SHIELD Act, the first bill in Congress specifically aimed at stopping patent trolls and their abuse of our patent system. "Across the country, patent trolls have drained billions of dollars and countless jobs from nearly every sector of the economy. I welcome the President’s announcement and applaud the actions he plans to take. And I agree with him. If we want to protect American innovators, businesses and jobs, Congress must act. I will continue to work with the members on both sides of the aisle to pass a bipartisan, common sense bill that will curb these egregious lawsuits and help American innovators defend themselves against patent trolls.”
05.23.2013	Supports legislation that would slash interest rates for students WASHINGTON, DC— Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) slammed Congressional Republicans for voting to hike interest rates to as much as 8.5% for students receiving Stafford student loans. DeFazio voted against this bait-and-switch and instead supports legislation that would slash interest rates for students trying to achieve a higher education. “This bill was a wolf in sheep’s clothing. The Republican’s so-called ‘smart solution’ would stick over 125,000 Oregon students who rely on Stafford student loans with up to an additional $6,000 in interest payments,” said DeFazio. “The Republicans may pretend that this bill would help students, but it will only saddle the next generation of doctors, engineers, and teachers with more debt. I vehemently opposed this attack on students.” The Republican legislation, called the “Smarter Solutions for Students Act”, allows adjustable rate student loans- which are as risky as adjustable rate home loans. According to the non-partisan Congressional Research Service, allowing adjustable interest rate loans would double the amount students pay in interest on their student loans. Under the Republican bill passed today, students who borrow the maximum amount of subsidized Stafford loans over five years would pay $10,109 in interest payments, compared to $4,174 if interest rates stay at the current 3.4% level. Under this legislation, interest rates would be allowed to skyrocket to as high as 8.5% some years. Instead, DeFazio is a co-sponsor of Senator Elizabeth Warren’s (D-MA) Bank on Students Loan Fairness Act. “When the big Wall Street banks responsible for tanking the economy need a loan, they go to the Federal Reserve ‘discount window’ to get a sweetheart deal- a taxpayer-funded government loan at a 0.75% interest rate. Students should get the same deal as Wall Street banks. This bill would lower interest rates for Stafford student loans to the same 0.75% interest rate that the Federal Reserve currently gives to the big Wall Street banks. If it’s good enough for the banks that nearly destroyed our economy, it should be good enough for the generation that will rebuild it,” DeFazio said. BACKGROUND For two years, the House Republican leadership has refused to prevent the doubling of interest rates for Stafford student loans. Earlier this year, they passed Paul Ryan’s budget that would permanently lock in student loan interest rates at the doubled 6.8% rate. It would also cut Pell Grants for an estimated 400,000 low income students. According to the Oregon University System, college tuition at Oregon’s four year institutions has increased by nearly 50% over the last 10 years. Cost of college tuition has increased five-fold since 1985 and for the first time ever student loan debt tops credit card debt, exceeding $1 trillion. Over 66% of students today rely on federal financial aid to go to school. To access the radio actuality, see attached file or click here: https://1.usa.gov/10q8caK - 30 -
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON, May 22 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today introduced legislation that would ban bankers from sitting on the boards of directors for 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks that regulate the financial industry. Co-sponsored by Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and Mark Begich (D-Alaska), the bill also would end the practice of letting bankers have a say in the selection of the Fed directors that regulate them. A companion measure was introduced in the House by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.). Sanders said, “I think the American people would be shocked to learn that the CEOs of some of the largest banks in America are allowed to serve on the boards of the main agency in this country in charge of regulating these financial institutions – the Federal Reserve. Allowing banking industry executives to serve on the Fed’s boards and hand-pick its members and staff is a clear conflict of interest that must be eliminated.” DeFazio said, “This outrageous conflict of interest jeopardizes the health of our financial system. Why should the Wall Street banks that gambled with our economy, lost big and then asked taxpayers for a bailout be allowed to regulate themselves? They have already proven they can’t do it. Our legislation would eliminate this conflict of interest and prevent banks from stacking these regulatory boards with their own employees.” Under current law, two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Bank board members are directly appointed by the financial services industry and one-third of the Fed directors are employed in the financial services industry that the Fed is in charge of regulating. The Fed both supervises the financial services sector and decides whether to provide bank holding companies low-interest loans through the discount window. Under the proposed legislation, Fed employees or board members would be outlawed from owning stock or investing in companies that the Fed oversees, regulates, and supervises. And no one who works for or invests in a firm receiving direct financial assistance from the Fed would be allowed to sit on the Fed's board or be employed by the Fed. A Sanders provision in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act required the Government Accountability Office to investigate potential conflicts of interest. The study found that allowing members of the banking industry to both elect and serve on the Federal Reserve's board of directors creates “an appearance of a conflict of interest” and poses “reputational risks” to the Federal Reserve System. More than $4 trillion in near zero-interest Federal Reserve loans and other financial assistance went to the banks and businesses of at least 18 current and former Federal Reserve regional bank directors in the aftermath of the 2008 financial collapse, according to GAO records made public by Sanders. “It is time for change at the Fed. Americans deserve a Federal Reserve that works for them, not just the CEOs on Wall Street,” Sanders said. Contact: Michael Briggs (Sanders) 202 224-5141 Jen Gilbreath (DeFazio) 202 225-6416 Zachary Coile (Boxer) 202 224-8120 Rachel Barinbaum (Begich) 202 224-3778 ###
05.01.2013	The United States Postal Service (USPS) is in a financial death spiral, caused largely by Congressional and bureaucratic ineptitude and inaction. Over 70% of USPS financial losses are due to a Congressional mandate to prefund retiree healthcare for future employees for the next 75 years. This requires the post office to prefund the healthcare of future employees that have not yet been born. This is stupid and unacceptable. Rather than avoiding this financial crisis they face, USPS bureaucrats have only offered short-sighted proposals that fail to address their long-term issues and would accelerate the demise of the Postal Service. That’s why I introduced HR 630, the Postal Service Protection Act. This legislation will sustain the postal service, avoid unnecessary closures that hurt rural communities, and save American jobs. This week, I posted a petition to the Obama Administration’s ‘We the People’ website, asking them to consider my legislation to save our postal service. This petition must receive 100,000 signatures by May 23rd in order for the White House to respond. You can view and sign it here: https://wh.gov/t95i . If you support the postal service and want Congress and the White House to consider legislation that would fix the serious financial challenges it faces, please sign the petition and tell your friends to as well. Click here to access the petition. You must sign up for a White House username and password to sign the petition. For more information about my legislation, click here.
04.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC- U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will join Oregon House Majority Leader Val Hoyle (D-West Eugene), State Representative Brian Clem (D-Salem), and others to hold a rally supporting DeFazio’s Postal Service Protection Act, legislation that would prevent the closing of local mail processing centers and fix the long-term financial issues plaguing the United States Postal Service. The rally will be held on the Oregon State Capitol steps. DeFazio is collecting signatures for a petition urging the White House to support his legislation. The petition must have 100,000 signatures by May 24th to force the White House to respond. To view or sign the petition, go to https://wh.gov/t95i. Hoyle, Clem, and Oregon Senate Republican Leader Ted Ferrioli (R-John Day) are the authors of House Joint Memorial 15, which instructs Congress to pass DeFazio’s Postal Service Protection Act. The elected officials will be joined by local postal service employees who are in jeopardy of losing their jobs if Oregon mail processing centers are closed. WHO: U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio, Oregon House Majority Leader Val Hoyle, Oregon Representative Brian Clem, and other members of the Oregon legislature WHAT: Rally to Save The Postal Service-Save American Jobs DATE: *TOMORROW* Tuesday, April 30 TIME: 12:30 pm Pacific time WHERE: Steps of the Oregon State Capitol 900 Court St NE Salem For more information on DeFazio’s legislation, click here. -30-
04.24.2013	More than 90 Percent of Americans Support the Right to Know What Is In The Foods We Feed Our Families Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act, legislation that would require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to clearly label genetically engineered (GE) foods so that consumers can make informed choices about what they eat. Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Mark Begich (D-AK), Jon Tester (D-MT), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Brian Schatz (D-HI) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) are cosponsors of the Senate bill. Representatives Jared Polis (D-CO), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Donna Christensen (D-Virgin Islands), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter Welch (D-VT), James Moran (D-VA), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Don Young (R-AK), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), George Miller (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and Ann Kuster (D-NH) are cosponsors of the House bill. “Americans have the right to know what is in the food they eat so they can make the best choices for their families,” Senator Boxer said. “This legislation is supported by a broad coalition of consumer groups, businesses, farmers, fishermen and parents who all agree that consumers deserve more – not less – information about the food they buy.” “When American families purchase food, they deserve to know if that food was genetically engineered in a laboratory,” Representative DeFazio said. “This legislation is supported by consumer’s rights advocates, family farms, environmental organizations, and businesses, and it allows consumers to make an informed choice.” "Despite the prevalence of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) in grocery stores and prepared foods, it remains difficult if not impossible for consumers to determine if the foods they eat contain GMOs,” Representative Polis said. “This labeling bill is about empowering consumers: consumers can chose to eat or not eat GMOs, or to pay more or less for GMOs. I believe consumers have a right to know what they are eating so they can make their own informed food choices. I am proud to be working toward more informative food labels." “Food is a basic necessity in our everyday lives, and people have a right to know what’s in the food that we eat,” Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard said. “I have long been an advocate of labeling food containing GE products because consumers deserve honest, transparent information about their food. This legislation puts consumers first and will empower them to make informed choices for themselves and their families.” “GMO labeling is an issue I've cared deeply about for a long time and is one of the things I hear most often about from constituents,” Congresswoman Pingree said. “I think people have a right to know exactly what they're feeding themselves and their families. The choice of whether to eat GMO food is best left to the consumer--but there's no choice to make if we don't provide them the information.” According to surveys, more than 90 percent of Americans support the labeling of genetically engineered foods. In fact, many consumers are surprised to learn that GE foods are not already labeled. Currently, the FDA requires the labeling of over 3,000 ingredients, additives and processes, but the agency has resisted labels for genetically modified foods. In a 1992 policy statement, the FDA allowed GE foods to be marketed without labeling, claiming that these foods were not “materially” different from other foods because the genetic differences could not be recognized by taste, smell or other senses. Unfortunately, the FDA’s antiquated labeling policy has not kept pace with 21st century food technologies that allow for a wide array of genetic and molecular changes to food that can’t be detected by human senses. Common sense would indicate that GE corn that produces its own insecticide – or is engineered to survive being doused by herbicides – is materially different from traditional corn that does not. Even the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has recognized that these foods are materially different and novel for patent purposes. Consumers – who are used to reading labels to see if foods contain MSG, gluten, trans fats, high fructose corn syrup or aspartame – clearly want more information. More than one and a half million Americans have filed comments with the FDA urging the agency to label GE foods. The bipartisan legislation introduced today would require clear labels for genetically engineered whole foods and processed foods, including fish and seafood. The measure would direct the FDA to write new labeling standards that are consistent with U.S. labeling standards and international standards. Sixty-four countries around the world already require the labeling of GE foods, including all the member nations of the European Union, Russia, Japan, China, Australia and New Zealand. This legislation follows last year’s letter from Senator Boxer, Representative DeFazio and 54 Senate and House lawmakers urging the FDA to require the labeling of GE foods. The Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act has broad support from organizations and businesses, including the Center for Food Safety, Consumers Union, Environmental Working Group, Just Label It, the National Farmers Union, Stonyfield Farms, Consumer Federation of America, AllergyKids Foundation, National Cooperative Grocers Association, New England Farmers Union, Northwest Atlantic Marine Alliance, Center for Environmental Health, Chefs Collaborative, Label GMOs, Alaska Trollers Association, Ben & Jerry’s, Clif Bar & Company, Lundberg Family Farms, Nature’s Path, Annie’s Inc., and many others. For a list of more of the groups supporting the bill, click here. ###
04.11.2013	The Honorable Peter DeFazio Testimony Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Legislative Hearing, “O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act” April 11, 2013 I want to thank Chairman Hastings and Chairman Bishop for this opportunity and for granting my request – and the request of Rep. Schrader and Rep. Walden – for a legislative hearing on the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act Discussion Draft. This is an important and timely opportunity for the Oregon Delegation, for rural communities and counties in Western Oregon, and for moving forward in finding a long-term solution for the statutorily unique O&C Lands. Today, the subcommittee will spend most of its time talking about management challenges facing national forest lands – lands managed by the Forest Service. But my testimony and this afternoon’s panel will focus on a unique set of lands found only in Western Oregon – the O&C Lands. The O&C Lands are not national forest lands and are not managed by the Forest Service. They are managed by the Bureau of Land Management. O&C Lands are governed by a unique statute – the O&C Act of 1937. The Act mandates that these lands – again, found only in Western Oregon – be managed for permanent, sustainable timber production for the benefit of 18 Oregon counties. This is a different mandate than national forest lands. By law, these counties also receive 50 percent of revenues produced from the O&C Lands instead of 25 percent of revenues produced from other federal forests. The O&C Lands are legally unique and have been at the center of expensive and complex legal challenges – including a case that was heard before the U.S. Supreme Court – for more than a century. Today, there are two pending cases in the D.C. Circuit Court relating specifically to the O&C Lands – both of which could also end up in front of the U.S. Supreme Court. The O&C Lands are geographically unique. They are scattered throughout Western Oregon in a “checkerboard” pattern where a square mile of O&C land – the black square on a checkerboard – is intermingled with a square mile of private land – the white square on a checkerboard. You can imagine the management challenges associated with this configuration. The unique O&C lands require a unique solution. That’s exactly what Rep. Schrader, Rep. Walden, and I have produced. In short, our bipartisan solution would designate younger, previously managed timber stands for sustainable timber production to be managed by a public board and under federal laws as they apply to private and state forests. The rest of the O&C Lands – old growth and sensitive lands not suitable for logging – would be transferred to the Forest Service and set aside for conservation. All lands would remain in federal ownership. Here’s something this committee, and Congress more broadly, should really like about our bipartisan proposal: during a time of crushing federal debt and deficits our proposal would save the federal government $110 million every year, or more than $1 billion over a decade. And instead of providing federal support payments to 18 Oregon counties, our proposal would help make Western Oregon counties self-sufficient and actually require the public board to pay the U.S. Treasury $10 million per year for the privilege of managing a portion of the O&C Lands. That’s a pretty good deal for the American taxpayer. The discussion draft before the subcommittee today has been publicly available for more than a year. I have accepted public comments on that draft for more than a year. I have talked about the proposal publicly at dozens of town halls I held over the last year. And I have met with a diverse array of constituency groups to hear their perspectives, learn about their concerns, and to discuss possible modifications. Governor Kitzhaber also convened a stakeholder group to discuss and study this issue in greater depth. While the group could not come to a consensus on a final plan, the governor produced a substantive report that provides detailed analyses of multiple policy options. Bottom line: there has been no shortage of studies, robust debate, and public dialogue on this issue and the seeds of a long-term solution are in the governor’s report and the bipartisan O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act. The timing of this hearing is also important. Right now, multiple counties in my district and in Western Oregon are approaching insolvency and will not be able to provide basic state-mandated services to its residents – such as law enforcement. Many of these counties have real unemployment at or above 20 percent. Poverty is widespread and crippling. Consider, for example, that in Josephine and Jackson counties alone more than 65,000 people – or one out of every five people in the two counties including children – are on food stamps. The hard truth is that the federal government will not be able to bail these counties out, at least not at a funding level needed to sustain basic services in rural Oregon. The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act has expired. The last payments have been sent out – and even sequestered. While we need to reauthorize the critical program – a program I have strongly supported and worked hard to extend – these support payments are not a sustainable, long-term solution for Western Oregon. The bipartisan solution I negotiated with Rep. Walden and Rep. Schrader acknowledges this reality and offers a realistic plan for helping rural Oregon counties solve some – not all – of their financial and economic challenges – challenges that have major consequences for public safety, education, transportation, and other critical government services and functions. Our proposal would also offer major conservation victories to protect the values that Oregonians care about: clean water, healthy fish populations, and preservation of some of the most remarkable natural features in the State of Oregon such as the iconic Rogue River, Devil’s Staircase, the Chetco River and a million acres of mature and old growth forest. I will be the first to admit the discussion draft is not a perfect bill. There are parts that I would change. There are parts Representatives Schrader and Walden would change. There are provisions that the conservation community, the timber industry, the counties, the tribes, and the recreation community would change. That’s why we are having this hearing. I look forward to discussing ways to improve and strengthen the discussion draft with the witnesses. The fact is, there is no silver bullet to solve this complex set of challenges. But consider this: has there ever been a legislative solution for the O&C Lands that is bipartisan, would help the 18 O&C Counties provide critical government services like keeping criminals in jail and sheriffs on the roads, that would create thousands of private sector jobs, and responsibly protect the environment all while saving the federal government $1 billion? The answer is no. Not until the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act. It is time for action. It’s time to stop talking about “principles” and “concepts” and to start moving forward with specific, legislative ideas. And it’s time to have a serious, robust conversation about the difficult choices Congress will eventually have to make. Thank you, Chairman, for allowing that conversation to move forward in this Committee.
04.11.2013	Contact: Jen Gilbreath (DeFazio) 202-225-6416 Andrew Malcolm (Walden) 202-226-7338 Cody Tucker (Schrader) 202-225-5711 April 11, 2013 Proposal would create thousands of jobs, provide stable funding to O&C counties WASHINGTON, DC— Today, the House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing to discuss a bipartisan legislative proposal from Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Greg Walden (R-Hood River), and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby). The plan would create thousands of private sector jobs in Oregon, provide stable funding for failing Oregon counties, and protect old growth and important places while saving the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars. The Committee heard testimony from all three sponsors of the plan; Douglas County Commissioner Doug Robertson, chairman of the Association of O&C Counties; and Tom Tuchman, forestry adviser to Governor John Kitzhaber. Legislative hearings are generally required before bills are voted on by the committee and the full U.S. House of Representatives. “This hearing signals that this is a serious plan that is being taken seriously by the U.S. House of Representatives,” DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader said in a joint statement. “Any plan that would create thousands of private sector jobs, provide revenues to help failing rural Oregon counties, protect sensitive public lands, and that save the federal government $1 billion is worth considering. Today we had a serious, robust conversation about a realistic solution to the O&C crisis. This proposal isn’t perfect, but we must move forward with specific legislative ideas before these failing Oregon counties become insolvent. We look forward to working with the Governor and the counties to incorporate changes discussed today, and we are pleased that the House took this needed first step.” Right now, several counties in Oregon are approaching insolvency and will not be able to provide basic state-mandated services to its residents – such as law enforcement. Many of these counties have real unemployment at or above 20 percent. Poverty is widespread and crippling. Consider, for example, that in Josephine and Jackson counties alone more than 65,000 people – or one out of every five people in the two counties including children – are on food stamps. Last February, DeFazio, Walden and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan legislative proposal to help solve the O&C problems. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth. Their bipartisan solution would designate a certain set of lands –previously managed timber stands – for sustainable timber production to be managed by a public board and under federal laws as they apply to private and state forests. The rest of the O&C Lands – old growth and sensitive lands– would be transferred to the Forest Service and set aside for conservation. All lands would remain public, in federal ownership. That proposal was discussed in today’s hearing. The proposal secured broad support across the state, including: the Oregon House, Oregon Senate, fifteen county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups. Today’s hearing was secured after DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader sent a letter to Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA) requesting substantive and open discussion about long-term solutions for the statutorily unique O&C lands. The hearing is available on DeFazio’s YouTube page: https://www.youtube.com/user/PeterDeFazio A clip of DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader’s opening statements can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ZDpCx5TFm4 A clip of the panel’s testimony and questions can be found here: https://youtu.be/8r8cMaSDFMc -30-
04.04.2013	DEFAZIO, WALDEN SECURE HEARING FOR LONG-TERM, O&C LANDS SOLUTION WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced that the House Natural Resources Committee will conduct a hearing on a long-term bipartisan solution for the O&C lands on Thursday, April 11, 2013. The hearing was secured after DeFazio, Walden, and Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) sent a letter to Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA) requesting substantive and open discussion about long-term solutions for the statutorily unique O&C lands. “Some counties in western Oregon are on the brink of bankruptcy and are considering insolvency, or turning over their responsibilities to the state. If Congress fails to act, these counties will dissolve. We need to work towards a long-term solution, and we need to do it today. There is no excuse for inaction or delay. We are pleased that Chairman Hastings has recognized this urgency by granting our request for a hearing in the House and look forward to offering our long-term, bipartisan legislative proposal as a possible solution to create jobs and provide predictability to these struggling counties,” said DeFazio. “One thing is clear: the status quo isn’t working for our rural communities. There’s a better way. Our forests need to be managed so we can put people back to work in the woods, create healthy forests and communities, and provide certainty for essential local services like schools and law enforcement. Momentum for changing federal forest policy has been building in Oregon’s counties, the legislature, and in Congress. We now have a historic opportunity to get this done now, and we look forward to being a part of this effort,” Walden said. Last February, DeFazio, Walden and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan legislative proposal to help solve the O&C problems. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth. That proposal will be discussed in the upcoming hearing. The proposal secured broad support across the state, including: the Oregon House, Oregon Senate, fifteen county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups. The hearing will be streamed live on the House Natural Resources Committee website at 7:00 am PST on April 11, 2013 at: https://naturalresources.house.gov/live/ For more information about the hearing, click here: https://naturalresources.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=326329 -30-
03.21.2013	March 21, 2013 Republican House passed Ryan Budget would hurt middle class and seniors to protect perks for wealthy Americans and profitable corporations WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) rejected the extreme Republican passed Ryan budget, which would dismantle and turn Medicare into a voucher program, end federal investments in our transportation infrastructure, and raise taxes on middle class Americans while giving huge tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires. “This is a phony budget. The Republican leadership’s main goal isn’t to balance the budget, but to appease the radical right who want to bankrupt the government so it’s small enough to ‘drown it in a bathtub’. The Ryan budget turns Medicare into a voucher program and ends federal investment in our roads, bridges and highways, which would kill 2 million jobs. It raises taxes on middle income families, but protects loopholes and subsidies for corporations making record profits and cuts taxes for millionaires and billionaires. It uses fuzzy math to pretend it balances the budget in ten years. This is far from balanced, and it would hammer the economy instead of getting it back on track,” said DeFazio. DeFazio is a long time supporter of a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. He believes it would force Congress to reduce the deficit in a balanced way that includes investments that create middle class jobs, smart cuts that eliminate wasteful programs, and revenue raisers that close expensive tax loopholes and breaks for millionaires, billionaires, and profitable corporations. BACKGROUND According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities the Ryan Budget lowers tax rates for millionaires by an average of $240,000 while increasing taxes for middle class families by $3,000 a year. It dismantles Medicare and turns it into a voucher program for nearly 540,000 Oregon seniors, increasing costs by as much as $5,900 per senior according to the Center for American Progress. Nearly 42,000 Oregon seniors would pay $1,000 more for prescription drugs according to Health and Human Services Department. The Ryan budget slashes $5.14 billion from health care for poor Oregon seniors and nursing home care for 130,000 senior and disabled Oregonians who rely on Medicaid for long-term care. Perhaps most shockingly, the Economic Policy Institute estimates that policies in the Ryan-Republican plan will lead to the loss of 2 million jobs in 2014 alone and at the same time, it decimate the budgets for unemployment assistance and food stamps. The Ryan-Republican budget protects tax loopholes for oil companies already making record profits while ending investment for our crumbling transportation infrastructure, which would kill millions of good paying, private sector jobs. It would gut federal funding for air traffic control towers, community police, and student financial aid. These programs were already decimated by the March 1st sequestration cuts. -30-
03.20.2013	March 20, 2013 Legislation would fully fund military tuition assistance by shifting foreign aid from Egypt WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) is leading the fight for legislation that would fully restore the Military Tuition Assistance Program, which was closed by the Pentagon as a result of the indiscriminate, across-the-board sequestration cuts that went into effect March 1st. DeFazio is the lead Democratic cosponsor of H.R. 1039, bipartisan legislation that would redirect $500 million away from questionable foreign military aid to Egypt and use it to fund tuition promised to active duty service members. “I voted against the stupid, indiscriminate across-the-board sequester cuts because I knew it would gut effective programs and leave wasteful ones untouched,” said DeFazio. “We promised these young service members that we would help them achieve a higher education in thanks for their service. It is outrageous that we have gone back on that promise. This bill is a no-brainer. Congress can protect $500 million in foreign military aid to Egypt or fulfill our commitment to our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Guardsmen and Reservists.” DeFazio has heard from active duty National Guard and Reserve service members in his district who may be forced to drop out of school because they will no longer receive tuition assistance from the Pentagon. The recent across-the-board spending cuts - or sequestration – explicitly protected military service member pay, veteran's benefits, and federal student loans. Unfortunately, the tuition assistance programs were not spared from these spending cuts. DeFazio opposed the indiscriminate sequestration cuts because he believes Congress should cut inefficient and wasteful programs and protect important, effective programs like tuition assistance for our service members. Tuition assistance is an important tool for members of the Armed Forces to obtain the necessary professional development education or prepare themselves for the civilian job market upon leaving the service. Last year, the Army tuition assistance program alone allowed 201,000 Soldiers to pursue their educational goals. -30-
03.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) responded to the newly released report from the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) that assigned our national transportation infrastructure system a near-failing ‘D+’ grade. Without increased investment, the report concluded that over the next seven years businesses would lose $1.2 trillion in sales and families would lose $611 billion due to transportation delays, blackouts and brownouts, and water main breaks. Our rapidly deteriorating infrastructure system would cost American families an average of $3100 a year in disposable personal income by 2020. “Over the next seven years, we have a projected deficit of about $1.6 trillion in our infrastructure system if nothing changes. That’s as much money as the unnecessary war in Iraq cost us. According to ASCE, if we don’t address this investment gap in our infrastructure, by 2020 our economy will lose $1 trillion in business sales, $3.1 trillion in Gross Domestic Product, and 3.5 million jobs will be lost. If we want to maintain economic growth and international competitiveness, we are going to have to do a lot better than a near-failing ‘D+’,” said DeFazio. The report can be found here: https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/. The ASCE report comes on the heels of a report from the Congressional Budget Office, which announced that the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) will face a small balance by the end of fiscal year 2014, and a –$7.1 billion shortfall in fiscal year 2015. Since the HTF cannot deficit spend, the impact of the shortfall would be dramatic and could be felt much sooner. If the HTF reaches this shortfall, Congress would be forced to choose between borrowing money to continue this vital investment, finding new revenue to increase investment, or cutting off funding and jeopardizing millions of Americans jobs, our economic competitiveness, and safety. “If we don't do something soon, the Highway Trust Fund will drop to near zero some time in 2014. Transportation investment will drop from today’s $50 billion of annual investment, which is not sufficient to even deal with the deterioration of our system, let alone build out a more efficient 21st century system. That’s hundreds of thousands of lost jobs. That’s accelerated deterioration of the system. This prospect is unacceptable. We must find a long-term, sustainable solution,” said DeFazio. DeFazio has proposed an idea that would fully fund the HTF and allow significant transportation investment that would begin to address our critical needs. His plan calls for a “double indexation” of the gas tax to both to fleet fuel economy (CAFE standards) and construction cost inflation. By indexing the gas tax to these measures, the HTF would not lose value when construction costs rise or when new CAFE standards kick in that require new cars sold in America to be more fuel-efficient. Double indexation could generate up to an estimated $177 billion in additional revenue over the next ten years. DeFazio’s plan would also take advantage of the record low interest rates by securing short-term Treasury bonds paid back over 10-years using the revenue from the indexed portion of the gas tax. This would address the HTF’s eminent exhaustion in 2015, put millions of people back to work, and quickly begin to meaningfully address our most urgent transportation infrastructure needs. DeFazio pitched the idea at last week’s caucus meeting between President Obama and House Democrats, and is in ongoing communications with the White House. DeFazio’s floor speech can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zqnIvLGNhtc -30-
03.07.2013	WASHINGTON, March 7 – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced legislation to strengthen Social Security by making the wealthiest Americans pay the same payroll tax that nearly everyone else already pays. Senator Bernie Sanders introduced the companion bill in the Senate. He and DeFazio held a news conference in the Capitol to discuss their bill to bolster Social Security without raising the retirement age or lowering benefits. “Social Security is the most successful government program in our nation's history. Through good times and bad, Social Security has paid out every benefit owed to every eligible American,” Sanders said. “The most effective way to strengthen Social Security for the future is to eliminate the cap on the payroll tax on income above $250,000 so millionaires and billionaires pay the same share as everyone else.” DeFazio added, “Despite the hype, Social Security is not now, and never was, the cause of our deficit. Those spreading these false claims are the same people who have for years been working with Wall Street to privatize the program. We shouldn’t cut benefits or try to balance the budget on the backs of seniors who have earned these benefits. We can just close a tax loophole that allows millionaires and billionaires to pay a lower percentage of their income into Social Security than everyone else.” Under their legislation, those with yearly incomes of $250,000 or more would pay the same 6.2 percent payroll tax already assessed on those who earn up to $113,700 a year. Applying the Social Security payroll tax on income above $250,000 would only affect the wealthiest 1.3 percent of Americans, according to the Center for Economic and Policy Research. Social Security officials say that simple change would yield about $85 billion a year to keep the retirement program strong for at least another 50 years. The legislation is based on a proposal that President Barack Obama made in 2008 during his first campaign for the White House. (Watch the video.) Since it was signed into law 77 years ago, Social Security has kept millions of senior citizens, widows, widowers, orphans, and the disabled out of poverty. Before Social Security, about half of senior citizens lived in poverty. Today, less than 10 percent live in poverty and more than 55 million Americans receive retirement or disability benefits. The most successful government program in our nation's history has not contributed to the federal deficit. It has a $2.7 trillion surplus, and it can pay out every benefit owed to every eligible American for at least the next 20 years, according to the Social Security Administration. To read the bill, see attached. For a fact sheet, click here. Contact: Michael Briggs (Sanders) 202 224-5141 Jen Gilbreath (DeFazio) 202 225-6416 -30-
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced legislation to place a tax on certain trading activities undertaken by banking and financial firms. If enacted, the measure would not harm ordinary middle-class investors or long-term investing, but instead targets financial trading and complex transactions undertaken by financial and investment firms. In the last Congress, the Congressional Joint Tax Committee scored a similar proposal as raising $352 billion over 10 years. Joining Harkin and DeFazio in cosponsoring the legislation were Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) along with 19 House cosponsors. “The American people overwhelmingly agree that deficit reduction in this country must come from a balance of spending cuts and necessary revenue increases,” said Harkin. “We need the new revenue that would be generated by this tax in order to reduce deficits and maintain critical investments in education, infrastructure, and job creation. And there is no question that Wall Street can easily bear this modest tax. This Wall Street tax is a simple matter of fairness and fiscal sanity.” “This Wall Street Speculator Tax should be a no-brainer. It will raise significant revenue that we desperately need and it reins in the excessive speculative activity that has destabilized our financial system. The only way we can meaningfully address our deficit, is by taking a balanced approach that includes revenue raisers and smart, targeted cuts. This bill should be part of that balanced solution,” said DeFazio. “Both the economic crisis and the deficit crisis are a direct result of the greed, recklessness, and illegal behavior on Wall Street,” said Sanders. “This bill will reduce gambling on Wall Street, encourage the financial sector to invest in the job-creating productive economy, and significantly reduce the deficit. At a time when we have a record-breaking national debt, the very least we can do is demand that Wall Street pay its fair share in taxes.” “This commonsense proposal will raise billions in new revenue to get rid of the sequester or reduce the deficit while also discouraging the kind of reckless high-volume trading that contributed to the financial crash in 2008. I’m proud to join Senator Harkin in fighting for this reform,” said Whitehouse. The measure will place a small tax of three basis points (three pennies on $100 in value) on most non-consumer financial trading including stocks, bonds and other debts, except for their initial issuance. For example, if a company receives a loan from a financial company, that transaction would not be taxed. But, if the financial institution traded the debt, the trade would be subject to the tax. The tax would also cover all derivative contracts, options, puts, forward contracts, swaps and other complex instruments at their actual cost. The measure excludes debt that has an original term of less than 100 days. By setting the tax rate very low, the measure is not likely to impact the decision to engage in productive economic activity. It would, however, reduce certain speculative activities like high-speed computer arbitrage trading. A transaction tax could help to shift Wall Street away from short-term trading. Given the very high volume of financial trading, it will raise considerable funds, badly needed for government services and for reducing deficits. The proposed tax would take effect after December 31, 2013. Earlier this year, a group of 11 European governments agreed to implement a financial transaction tax. The action allows for a tax of 10 basis points on stocks and one basis point on derivatives on financial transactions by the following countries: Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Austria, Greece, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Estonia. Among the national organizations supporting this effort are: AFL-CIO, Alliance for a Just Society, American Family Voices, American Federation of Government Employees, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), Americans for Financial Reform, Americans for Tax Fairness, Campaign for a Fair Settlement, Campaign for America's Future, Capital Institute, Catholics United, Center for Effective Government (formerly OMB Watch), Center of Concern, Communications Workers of America, Community Action Partnership, Consumer Action, Consumers Union, CREDO, Demos, Health Care for America Now, International Brotherhood of the Teamsters, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW, Jobs with Justice, Leadership Center for the Common Good, Main Street Alliance, Maryknoll Office for Global Concerns, MoveOn, National Education Association, National Women’s Law Center, PICO National Network, Public Citizen, Responsible Wealth, SEIU, Tax Justice Network USA, The Center for Media and Democracy, The Government Accountability Project, The Institute for College Access & Success and its Project on Student Debt, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, U.S. PIRG, United for a Fair Economy, United Steelworkers, USAction, Working America. WATCH THE JOINT PRESS CONFERENCE HERE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0hro3xHPyI ###
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) introduced HR 845, the bipartisan Saving High-tech Innovators from Egregious Legal Disputes (SHIELD) Act to protect American innovators and companies from frivolous patent lawsuits that cost jobs and resources. The SHIELD Act will put the financial burden on so-called “patent trolls” that buy broad patents on products they did not create and then file questionable lawsuits against companies for infringement. “Patent trolls drained an estimated $29 billion from American innovators and companies in 2011,” said DeFazio. “They pad their pockets by buying patents on products they didn’t create and then suing companies from every industry for infringement. These egregious lawsuits have spread to nearly every sector of the economy, costing billions of dollars and countless jobs. The bipartisan SHIELD Act is a targeted reform that will force patent trolls to take financial responsibility for their frivolous lawsuits.” “Patent trolls contribute nothing to the economy. No industry is immune to these attacks. Instead of creating jobs and growing the economy, businesses are wasting resources to fight off frivolous lawsuits. This bipartisan legislation will curb future abuse by requiring trolls to bear the financial responsibility for failed claims,” said Chaffetz. According to a recent Boston University study, patent troll suits cost American companies over $29 billion in 2011 alone. The SHIELD Act forces patent trolls to take financial responsibility for frivolous lawsuits. If a troll brings a patent lawsuit and loses, the SHIELD Act makes sure that the troll pays all costs and attorney’s fees associated with the case. This increased risk will help to deter many trolls from bringing frivolous lawsuits in the first place. Unlike last year’s version of the SHIELD Act, this year’s bill applies to all types of patents. No industry is free from patent troll lawsuits. In the past they most heavily targeted technology companies, but recently retailers, manufacturers, podcasters, and even municipalities have been the victims of patent troll lawsuits. The SHIELD Act protects all sectors from troll suits. The SHIELD Act makes sure that independent inventors, businesses that produce patented items, and universities are not accidentally lumped in with trolls. All of these entities will never be required to pay the opposing party’s fees in a lawsuit even if they lose. Only patent trolls that buy patents on the open market, for the sole purpose of using them for predatory litigation, will be subject to fee shifting under the SHIELD Act. The SHIELD Act is supported by the Consumer Electronics Association, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Engine Advocacy, the National Retail Federation, the Coalition for Patent Fairness, the Consumer and Communications Industry Association, and the online travel industry including Expedia, Kayak, Orbitz, and Travelocity. -30-
02.26.2013	WEDNESDAY: DEFAZIO-CHAFFETZ TO UNVEIL SHIELD ACT TO COMBAT PATENT TROLLS WASHINGTON, DC— On Wednesday, Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) will hold a press conference to unveil their proposal to protect American innovators and companies from frivolous patent lawsuits that cost jobs and resources. The SHIELD Act will put the financial burden on so-called “patent trolls” that buy broad patents on products they did not create and then file questionable lawsuits against companies for infringement. WHO: Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) Representative Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) WHAT: DeFazio-Chaffetz to unveil SHIELD Act WHEN: WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 10:30am WHERE: HVC Studio B (in the Congressional Visitors Center TV/Radio Correspondents press gallery) -- You can access Studio B through the gallery main entrance, Room HVC 117 *ONLY ACCREDITED MEDIA ARE ELIGIBLE TO ENTER THE GALLERY* Call 202-225-6416 for details. -30-
02.19.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) reintroduced the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act that requires the health insurance industry to operate under the same anti-trust laws as all other industries in America. In 2010, during the highly-charged political atmosphere of the healthcare debate, the House passed this legislation with a super majority of bipartisan support by a vote of 406 to 19. “No matter what political ideology, most can agree that insurance companies should play by the same rules as virtually every other industry in America. Right now, it is legal under federal law for insurance companies to collude to drive up prices, limit competition, conspire to underpay doctors and hospitals, and price gouge consumers. We must address the rapidly escalating cost of health insurance premiums, and this bill is a great first step. If 406 members could support this during the highly charged, partisan health care reform debate, we can pass it today,” DeFazio said. “Is it any surprise that the industry with the fastest-rising costs is also one that is exempt from anti-trust regulation?” said Slaughter. “The most effective way to contain the out-of-control growth of healthcare costs is to prohibit this collusion between healthcare insurance companies that artificially inflates the price of care, limits competition, and puts an enormous financial strain on American businesses and consumers.” Background The insurance industry has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed by Congress in 1945. McCarran-Ferguson leaves regulation to the states, many of which have inadequate resources and inconsistent enforcement. A recent study shows that in six of the seven most concentrated markets for health insurance—no significant consumer protection actions have been taken against health insurers in the past five years. This result has allowed insurance companies to collude amongst themselves. It will end this practice by subjecting the health insurance industry to all federal anti-trust laws and by giving the Department of Justice the authority to go after anticompetitive practices of health insurers if the states are unable or unwilling to do it themselves. The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone could save consumers billions of dollars. -30-
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Greg Walden (OR-02), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) sent letters to Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA), Chairman of House Natural Resources Committee to request hearings on long-term solutions for the O&C lands. The Representatives requested that both their bipartisan proposal and Governor Kitzhaber’s recent 94-page report on the O&C Lands be included in the discussion. “Given our mutual concern about the plight of Oregon counties and the statutorily uniqueness of the O&C Lands- and given the enormous amount of time, energy, and resources committed over the last year to solving this multi-generational problem set- the time is ripe for a substantive hearing and open discussion about solutions. We would be happy to testify,” wrote the members in a letter to Wyden. The request comes a week after Governor Kitzhaber released a substantive report that outlines possible management solutions and outcomes and a year after DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan proposal that would help stabilize Oregon’s rural communities, create thousands of jobs in the woods, and better manage our forests. “It’s time for action,” DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader said in a collective statement. “We think hearings on realistic, long-term solutions for the statutorily-unique O&C Lands that would create jobs and provide certainty to counties in both the House and Senate would be productive next steps.” The hearing requests also come in the wake of a recent announcement that a portion of the final Secure Rural Schools payments to O&C Counties that pay for vital county services like law enforcement is being withheld by the Department of the Interior in anticipation of indiscriminate across-the-board budget cuts called sequestration. Unless the discrepancy is resolved quickly Oregon counties will be forced to cut additional law enforcement positions, further restrict jail capacity, and eliminate public health professionals. Background Last year, DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader worked with stakeholders to reach a bipartisan agreement on a long-term plan for the O&C counties. The proposal would create jobs, sustain the local manufacturing base, provide revenues to rural Oregon counties, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect fish, water, and old growth. Their proposal secured broad support across the state and initiated an important discussion about long-term management solutions convened by Governor Kitzhaber. The letter to Senator Wyden is below. Senator Ron Wyden Chairman Energy and Natural Resources Committee 304 Dirksen Senate Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Wyden: We congratulate you on your new position as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and look forward to continuing to work with you on these important issues. While we understand the committee you now lead must focus on issues of national scope and significance, we are writing to express our collective concerns about the plight of rural and timber-dependent communities in Oregon. As you well know, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act you helped author and extend has now expired. Oregon counties have received their final support payments. To make matters worse, we recently learned that a portion of the final payments is being withheld from the O&C counties in anticipation of the budget sequestration threatening additional cuts to vital services like law enforcement and health care. A long-term extension of the program is unlikely. Some counties in western Oregon are on the brink of bankruptcy and are considering insolvency, or turning over their responsibilities to the state. Rural communities are suffering from chronically high unemployment rates. Our forests are unhealthy. Uncertainty of federal funding is devastating to counties and must be replaced with jobs and economic growth. We know you are intimately familiar with these problems. Last February we offered a realistic, bipartisan proposal to help solve these problems. Our proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth. Our proposal secured broad support across the state, including: the Oregon House, Oregon Senate, fifteen county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups. Given the serious challenges these problems pose to our state, Governor Kitzhaber convened a panel of conservationists, O&C County Commissioners, and timber industry representatives to discuss our bipartisan proposal and other long-term management options. While the panel did not come to a consensus, the governor recently released a substantive 94-page report that outlines possible management solutions and outcomes. We believe both our bipartisan proposal and the governor’s O&C Lands Report are largely consistent with the “Principles for an O&C Solution” your office released in December. We also remain optimistic that a long-term management solution exists and that together we can craft responsible, bipartisan legislation that provides certainty to all constituencies. In order to keep the process moving forward, we respectfully ask that you hold an oversight hearing to discuss long-term solutions for the O&C Lands – including our bipartisan proposal and the governor’s report. We have made the same request to the Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, Doc Hastings. Given our mutual concern about the plight of Oregon counties and the statutorily uniqueness of the O&C Lands – and given the enormous amount of time, energy, and resources committed over the last year to solving this multi-generational problem set – the time is ripe for a substantive hearing and open discussion about solutions. We would be happy to testify. Thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Greg Walden Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress -30-
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio tonight responded to President Obama’s State of the Union address. The following are DeFazio's remarks: "President Obama kicked off his State of the Union speech by expressing strong concern for putting Americans back to work. That will resonate with many Oregonians. He followed up with an emphasis on investing in our crumbling infrastructure, something that has the capability of quickly putting millions of Americans back to work. That’s not just in construction, but in manufacturing, engineering, small business contractors, and others. I have long urged the administration to get serious about this kind of investment, and will push the president to follow through on this pledge and for increased investments. “He talked about security for our seniors. I agree that we cannot take away the promise of Social Security, and we cannot privatize Medicare or deny people benefits in their time of need. “He talked about security for our kids. I agree that we must give the next generation a good solid education that will prepare them for post-graduate education in fields with good paying jobs and we need to make that opportunity more affordable. “He acknowledged the mountain of debt we’re going to leave to our kids and grandkids. We can reduce this debt in a fair way by asking the wealthiest among us, the large corporations, and others that get special tax breaks to pay their fair share. The president talked about the stupidity of the so-called sequester and the indiscriminate across-the-board budget cuts to programs like county payments which will impact law enforcement and other vital programs in Southwest Oregon. He said it should be replaced with targeted cuts, and targeted revenues by closing corporate and special interest tax loopholes. I couldn’t agree more. “He talked about the need to put partisanship behind so we can meaningfully address some of the most pressing problems confronting our nation. I’m only hopeful that many of my colleagues listened and that we can begin again in this new congress to tackle these issues on a much more bipartisan basis.” - 30 -
01.02.2013	“While the Senate plan included an extension of unemployment insurance that will save benefits for over 29,000 Oregonians and an essential ‘doc-fix’ that will continue payments to doctors who treat Medicare patients, this ‘deal’ hinders our ability to deal meaningfully with the deficit and burgeoning debt and puts in jeopardy Social Security and Medicare in the coming confrontation over the debt limit. "Under the Senate plan, wealthy investors will pay a significantly lower rate of taxes than someone who works for a living like an army captain or a teacher, adding $280 billion over ten years to our nation’s debt. The bill also puts in place a plan that will exempt joint estates worth up to $10 million from estate taxes, adding another $370 billion over ten years to the nation’s debt. And while millionaires and billionaires will see their income above $450,000 taxed at Clinton era rates, the deal permanently extends the Bush tax cuts on all income between $250,000 and $450,000 at a cost of $107 billion over ten years. "The Senate plan pushes dumb across-the-board spending cuts back just two months, creating yet another fiscal cliff crisis that coincides with the debt ceiling limit. This sets the stage for a massive attack on Social Security and Medicare under the guise of fiscal responsibility. Republicans are already proposing to increase the Medicare eligibility age to 67 and cut the cost of living adjustment for Social Security and veterans’ benefits. "Middle class Americans and seniors who have earned these benefits should not be asked to shoulder the burden of a deficit caused in large part by eleven years of the Bush tax cuts, two years of the Obama tax cuts, a deep economic recession caused by reckless Wall Street gambling, two wars charged to the credit card, and unrestrained federal spending in other areas. "We need to address our fiscal issues head on and balance the budget with a balanced approach. This is not a balanced plan and puts in jeopardy Social Security, Medicare and other programs essential to the middle class.”
11.19.2012	New report shows market manipulation by oil companies during summer gas price spikes WASHINGTON, DC – In a terse letter to Attorney General Eric Holder, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) called the lack of progress on an investigation into high West Coast gas prices “intolerable”. He urged AG Holder to review and immediately act on a recent report by Oregon-based McCullough Research which confirmed “normal market factors of supply and demand do not sufficiently explain recent [increases in] West Coast gasoline prices”. “Back in the spring, when Oregonians were paying through the nose at the pump, I wrote to the so-called Gas Price Fraud Working Group calling for an investigation. Nothing happened. I wrote to the president and raised the issue of market manipulation by California refineries. Nothing. It’s time for the Department of Justice to step up and do what they are supposed to do: crack down on, or at least investigate, illegal energy market activity,” said DeFazio. DeFazio points to a recent research paper by McCullough Research showing that back in May gasoline inventories on the West Coast were actually increasing, supplies rising, and consumer demand was falling – all factors that point to lower gas prices. Yet, gas prices in Oregon and on the West Coast skyrocketed up – at times going beyond 50 cents more per gallon than the national average. The McCullough Research report also claims – backed by laborious reviews of thousands of environmental documents – several California refineries actually continued to produce gasoline during periods of supposed outages and maintenance shutdowns that the oil companies blamed for the price hikes. “Basically, this independent research shows that California refineries were misleading the public. Refinery outages and maintenance shutdowns just provided a convenient excuse and explanation for ‘declining’ gas production so they could jack up the price of refined gasoline,” DeFazio said. “Hugely profitable oil companies who continue to look for every opportunity to rip off American drivers need to be held accountable for their blatant market manipulation. Enough is enough. Serious action is needed now.” BACKGROUND According to findings from a McCullough Report in June 2012, which studied prices in California, gas prices were $0.77 a gallon higher than “they would be normally, given the historical patterns of oil prices and gasoline inventories,” during the May price spike. McCullough’s November 2012 report found that gas prices were $0.66 a gallon higher than they should have been during the October price spike. They estimate that oil and gas companies received windfall profits of $48 million per day in May and October because of the price gouging. In mid-May, DeFazio requested that the Justice Department’s Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group investigate the recent decline in West Coast oil refinery production as gas price jumped throughout the region. The Justice Department referred DeFazio’s letter to representatives of the Working Group, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. To date, the Working Group has not released any findings. DeFazio’s radio actuality is attached to this email. The DeFazio letter to Holder is below: The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Room 1145 Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: This letter follows my May 17, 2012 letter to the Department of Justice’s Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group requesting an immediate investigation into rising gas prices on the West Coast. Six months ago – when West Coast drivers were paying at least 50 cents more per gallon of gas than the national average – I requested the Working Group initiate an investigation into the decline in California oil refinery production following a fire at a BP owned refinery in Washington State. As I stated then, it does not make sense for refineries to reduce supply when demand is up – unless their intent is to drive up prices. I then sent a letter to President Obama on June 1, 2012 urging the president to provide immediate gas price relief for millions of West Coast consumers by publicly supporting an investigation and sending a clear message to the oil and gas industry that the Obama administration is serious about reining in abuses and criminal violations in our energy markets. As of today, it is unclear what actions – if any – the Department of Justice and the specially created Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group have done to fulfill the administration’s commitment to rigorously pursue and investigate any potential violations of criminal or civil laws to manipulate retail gas prices. I am writing again to urge immediate action. The volatility of gas prices in the State of Oregon and throughout the West Coast has served a crushing blow to West Coast drivers, families, and small businesses. After nearly a year of paying abnormally high prices well above the national average, West Coast consumers are still paying 28 cents more per gallon than East Coast drivers and 58 cents more per gallon than Gulf Coast drivers. To add insult to injury, these devastatingly high gas prices on the West Coast appear to be a result of market abuses by a handful of California refineries – not the “dynamics of supply and demand” as the oil and gas industry has facetiously claimed for decades while laughing all the way to the bank. The behavior of California refineries over the last six months has been suspicious at best and malicious at worst. New details have emerged from a recent, independent report by McCullough Research suggesting the latter. The McCullough report confirms that back in May gasoline inventories on the West Coast were actually building, supplies were rising, and consumer demand was falling – all factors that favor declining retail prices. Yet, gas prices skyrocketed up. The McCullough report also makes the claim – backed by laborious reviews of thousands of environmental documents – several California refineries actually continued to produce gasoline during periods of supposed outages and maintenance shutdowns. It does not take a genius to connect the dots: refinery outages and maintenance shutdowns provided a convenient excuse and explanation for declining gas production and higher prices on the West Coast. In reality, for six months drivers paid through the nose at the pump while California refineries made huge profits with continued production and growing supplies. Enough is enough. The lack of progress in uncovering whether or not California refineries engaged, and are continuing to engage, in anti-competitive and illegal behavior to intentionally drive up retail gas prices on the West Coast is intolerable. The millions of West Coast drivers and the hundreds of thousands of consumers, families, and small businesses I represent deserve an answer. Action is needed now. I hope you will review and fairly consider the attached McCullough Research report and immediately take steps to address this critically important economic issue. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress - 30 -
11.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DC-- Oregon's congressional delegation applauded the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) for finding that there is a “reasonable indication” that the U.S. hardwood plywood manufacturing industry has been substantially injured by Chinese subsidized plywood sold in the U.S. at less than fair value. The U.S. Department of Commerce will continue to investigate Chinese hardwood plywood imports and make preliminary determinations on potential Chinese trade violations in December 2012 and March 2013. In early November, U.S. Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.); and U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) urged USITC to give full and fair consideration to the antidumping and countervailing duty (AD/CVD) petitions filed by the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood (CFTHP). “The AD/CVD petitions filed by the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood (CFTHP) represent a serious attempt to address the type of illegal trade practices that China routinely employs to create artificial advantages in the marketplace,” the delegation wrote. “We ask that you give the antidumpting and countervailing duty petitions full and fair consideration and that the U.S. trade remedy laws are fully enforced.” According to the CFTHP, illegal Chinese subsidies and “dumping” practices have substantially increased the market share growth of Chinese plywood imports in just a few short years. Because of the artificially low price of Chinese plywood, American manufacturers are priced out of the market and unable to compete. In September, CHTHP filed a petition with the Department of Commerce and the ITC to investigate China’s unfair trade practices and apply appropriate duties to “level the playing field”. Murphy Plywood (Eugene, OR), Roseburg Forest Products (Dillard, OR), States Industries (Eugene, OR), Timber Products Company (Springfield, OR), and Columbia Forest Products (Klamath Falls, OR), led the petition along with a hardwood plywood manufacturer from New York. Roseburg Forest Products President Allyn Ford issued the following statement in response to the determination. "We are pleased with the progress in the Chinese Hardwood Plywood case. At Roseburg, we are simply looking for a level playing field in this product line and of course preserving jobs in our workforce,” said Ford. Joe Gonyea III of Timber Products Company issued the following statement in response to the USITC announcement. “We are pleased that the International Trade Commission has recognized the merit of our petition and they will now do a thorough investigation,” stated Gonyea. “Timber Products Company can compete with any hardwood plywood manufacturer in the world, as long as the playing field is level. We hope this process will make that a reality. We applaud the bi-partisan efforts of Congressman DeFazio and other members of the Oregon delegation for being proactive on this issue that impacts literally thousands of family wage jobs in our state.” Since China joined the World Trade Organization, the U.S. has lost over 2.8 million jobs including 47,900 in Oregon according to the Economic Policy Institute. China has repeatedly targeted U.S. manufacturing sectors using illegal subsides to undercut our industries. For more information about the CFTHP petition and market information, please go to www.hardwoodplywoodfairtrade.org. --30--
10.01.2012	Organizing a bipartisan letter of support for the petition WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) threw his support behind efforts by American hardwood plywood manufacturers to rein in unfair and illegal subsidies of imported plywood from China. The petition, led by four hardwood plywood manufacturers from Southwest Oregon, documents the continued use of illegal subsidies to dump artificially cheap Chinese hardwood plywood in American markets and requests the Department of Commerce and U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) take action. “American manufacturers can’t compete when the deck is unfairly stacked against them. The Department of Commerce and the ITC need to fully investigate and challenge China’s unfair and illegal trade practices. We cannot afford to allow China to get away with manipulative trade practices that hurt American companies and cost us jobs. I strongly urge Commerce and the ITC to level the playing field,” said DeFazio. DeFazio is currently organizing a bipartisan letter of support for the trade petition that will be sent to the Department of Commerce and the ITC. DeFazio will also provide testimony at the upcoming ITC hearing. Since China joined the World Trade Organization, the U.S. has lost over 2.8 million jobs including 8,400 in Southwest Oregon according to the Economic Policy Institute. China has repeatedly targeted U.S. manufacturing sectors using illegal subsides to undercut our industries. According to the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood (CFTHP), illegal Chinese subsidies and “dumping” practices have substantially increased the market share growth of Chinese plywood imports in just a few short years. Because of the artificially low price of Chinese plywood, American manufacturers are priced out of the market and unable to compete. The petition asks the Department of Commerce and the ITC to investigate China’s unfair trade practices and apply appropriate duties to “level the playing field”. Murphy Plywood (Eugene, OR), Roseburg Forest Products (Dillard, OR), States Industries (Eugene, OR), and Timber Products Company (Springfield, OR) led the petition along with hardwood plywood manufactures from North Carolina and New York. Timber Products Company issued the following statement in response to DeFazio’s support. “Timber Products Company has taken steps in participation with the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood (CFTHP) to ensure both free and fair trade of hardwood panel products imported from the Peoples Republic of China. This is not a red state or blue state issue. This is a red, white and blue issue. We appreciate Congressman DeFazio’s support of this very important issue for our company, our industry and our country,” said Joe Gonyea, III of Timber Products Company. For more information about the CFTHP petition and market information, please go to www.hardwoodplywoodfairtrade.org. --30--
08.08.2012	Tuesday, August 14th: Florence Town Hall Meeting 9:30 AM–10:30 AM Siuslaw Public Library Bromley Room 1460 9th St Bandon Town Hall Meeting 12:30 –1:30 PM Bandon Public Library Sprague Room 1204 11th St SW Port Orford Town Hall Meeting 2:30–3:30 PM Port Orford Council Chambers 555 W 20th St Wednesday, August 15th: Brookings Town Hall Meeting 9:00 –10:00 AM Chetco Activity Center Bays A & B 550 Chetco Lane Gold Beach Town Hall Meeting 12:00–1:00 PM Gold Beach Council Chambers 29592 Ellensburg Ave Coos Bay Town Hall Meeting 5:15–6:15 PM Coos Bay Public Library 525 Anderson Ave Thursday August 16th: Eugene Town Hall Meeting 5:15–6:15 PM Eugene City Council Chambers 777 Pearl St Springfield Town Hall Meeting 7:00 –8:00 PM Springfield Council Chambers 225 5th St Monday August 20th: Cottage Grove Town Hall Meeting 12:00–1:00 PM Cottage Grove City Council Chambers 400 E Main St. Drain Town Hall Meeting 2:00 –3:00 PM Drain Civic Center Meeting Room 205 W A Ave Grants Pass Town Hall Meeting 5:15–6:15 PM Anne Basker Auditorium 604 NW 6th St Tuesday August 21st: Cave Junction Town Hall Meeting 10:00–11:00 AM Josephine County Building 102 S Redwood Hwy Canyonville Town Hall Meeting 2:00 –3:00 PM Seven Feathers Convention Center Azalea Room 146 Chief Miwaleta Lane Roseburg Town Hall Meeting 5:15–6:15 PM Douglas County Library Ford Community Room 1409 Diamond Lake Blvd Thursday August 23rd: Albany Town Hall Meeting 2:30 –3:30 PM Albany Public Library 2450 14th Ave SE Corvallis Town Hall Meeting 5:30–6:30 PM Boys and Girls Club of Corvallis Large Gym 1112 NW Circle Blvd
08.03.2012	Leads Bipartisan Letter to Administration WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama urging him to stand up for the American forestry industry and workers when negotiating the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) Trade Agreement. DeFazio’s letter asks the Obama administration to use the TPP negotiations to correct an egregious provision of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), known as Chapter 19, which undermines U.S. trade law and costs Oregon’s forestry industry jobs. As co-chair of the House Lumber Trade Caucus, DeFazio gathered 23 bipartisan signatures on the letter. “Entrusting the interpretation of U.S. trade law to foreign trade panels is reckless, and probably unconstitutional,” said DeFazio. “At the very minimum, President Obama and the USTR should use the TPP negotiation process to tell Canada and Mexico: ‘If you want to join, you have to play by the same rules as everyone else.’ This is a huge opportunity for the Obama administration to stand up for American businesses and American workers.” NAFTA prevents United States courts from enforcing our own trade laws to punish Canada and Mexico for unfair trade practices. Trade disputes are instead heard by an international panel stacked with arbitrators appointed by Canada and Mexico. These foreign trade panels frequently rule to protect unfair Canadian and Mexican trade practices that harm American industry and workers. For instance, Canada has flooded American markets with government subsidized timber causing mill closures and the loss of thousands of American jobs in the Pacific Northwest. The United States Department of Commerce filed a trade complaint, which was rejected by the trade panel. Under existing law, the U.S. cannot appeal the decision. DeFazio wants to strengthen the U.S. role in these trade disputes. Steve Swanson, President of the Swanson Group and Chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports applauded the bipartisan letter. "It makes no sense to give Canadians on these NAFTA panels the power to overrule our own government on how to administer U.S. trade law against Canadian unfair trade practices. Giving Canadian such unconstitutional powers over our government and trade laws has severely harmed U.S. forestry companies, its workers, and their communities. I applaud Rep. DeFazio and the House Lumber Trade Caucus co-chairs for their initiative to addressing this issue," said Swanson. DeFazio has voted against every trade agreement and was one of the most vocal opponents of NAFTA in Congress. The letter to the Obama Administration is below: August 2, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Rules-based trade and U.S. trade laws are vitally important components to our nation’s forestry jobs. It is imperative that trade agreements not undermine the effectiveness of our trade laws. Upholding this principle in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations could mean the difference between a healthy U.S. forestry industry, and one falling victim to unfairly traded imports. Although we may have differences of opinion on the overall Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, we can all agree that we must have the strongest agreement possible for our domestic industries. A final Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement must eliminate inequities currently present in the application of U.S. trade laws against foreign unfair trade practices. Specifically, the final text of the TPP must include language making all signing parties subject to full judicial review with respect to the application of domestic trade laws. Existing U.S. free trade agreements uniformly provide for the continued application of national antidumping and countervailing duty laws to imports from partner countries. However, the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement, and subsequently NAFTA, provide for international dispute settlement panels to substitute for domestic judicial review of antidumping and countervailing duty determinations by national investigating authorities. NAFTA’s “Chapter 19” panel system has undermined the full effectiveness of our trade laws when it comes to unfair Canadian trade practices and cross-border trade matters. Instead of allowing U.S. Courts to determine whether the U.S. government has properly applied U.S. trade laws, NAFTA Chapter 19 transfers that authority to private non-U.S. citizens – who interpret U.S. law and make binding decisions upon U.S. federal agencies. The NAFTA dispute settlement system completely turns on its head the fundamental principle of U.S. jurisprudence that all parties are entitled to full judicial review by an independent and competent judiciary. Under Chapter 19, foreign individuals can dictate how U.S. laws are enforced without any review by the U.S. judiciary. This entrustment of the interpretation of our laws to NAFTA panels has severely injured U.S. forestry industries and workers that depend on these laws to fight unfair trade practices. We must not repeat this mistake under TPP. The TPP negotiations provide an excellent opportunity to bring U.S. trade law as it pertains to Canada (and Mexico) into harmony with that for other TPP members. The TPP must specifically preserve the sovereign right of all member countries to use their trade laws with respect to unfairly traded imports from other TPP countries. Given Canada’s track record of providing massive subsidies to its forestry industry and unfair lumber trade practices, a TPP agreement that includes Canada must provide for normal domestic judicial review of trade law actions with respect to all TPP members. Ensuring that all signing parties to the Trans-Pacific Partnership are subject to the same application of domestic trade laws and full judicial review would ensure that our trade laws are fully enforced. Resolving this issue is of utmost importance to our domestic forestry industries, and will help preserve good American jobs in our rural communities that can least afford the loss of these jobs. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Mike Michaud Member of Congress Walter Jones Member of Congress John Conyers Member of Congress Greg Walden Member of Congress Chellie Pingree Member of Congress Alan Nunnelee Member of Congress Mike Ross Member of Congress Steve Southerland II Member of Congress Rick Larsen Member of Congress Jo Bonner Member of Congress Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Denny Rehberg Member of Congress Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress Tammy Baldwin Member of Congress Jeff Denham Member of Congress Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Michael Simpson Member of Congress Austin Scott Member of Congress Joe Wilson Member of Congress Daniel Lungren Member of Congress - 30 -
08.01.2012	House defeats amendment to offer tax breaks for small business investment and job creation WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) offered an amendment that would give tax breaks to small businesses that are reinvesting in their business to spur growth. DeFazio’s amendment also reduces the deficit by almost $30 billion by letting the Bush tax cuts expire on income above $1 million. The amendment was defeated 246 nays to 181 yeas. “Small businesses in America are the true job creators and Congress should be trying to help them thrive, expand, and grow. My amendment should have been a no brainer. It would have given small businesses tax breaks for investing in equipment and products from American factories. This bill would have created American jobs and paid down the deficit by asking millionaires and billionaires to pay Clinton era tax rates on income over $1 million.” According to the Joint Tax Committee, the amendment would pump $4.2 billion into American small businesses for further expansion on U.S. soil. Small manufacturers would be able to earn tax breaks for upgrading equipment, expanding a production line, or purchasing software to speed up assembly. Tech start ups could earn tax breaks for purchasing new equipment and investing in business development tools. These investments would have a ripple effect across the economy and allow a company to grow and hire new workers. DeFazio highlighted two businesses from southwest Oregon that would benefit as a result of the bill. Palo Alto Software is a Eugene small business that specializes in software to help business start ups increase productivity. Their products vary from business planning software to marketing software. DeFazio’s amendment would lower their costs to purchase new equipment and invest in new business development tools. Bulk Handling Systems is a small business that designs, engineers, manufactures, and installs recycling sorting and handling systems. They make recycling possible. DeFazio’s amendment could enable them to upgrade their equipment, expand a production line, or purchase software to speed up their assembly. These upgrades make them more competitive and boost their sales. The small business tax breaks would be paid for by letting tax rates on individual income over $1 million return to 2000 rates. Income under $1 million is not affected. Top level tax rates are currently at 35%, compared to 39.6% during the Clinton administration, 50% during the Reagan administration, and 91% during the Eisenhower administration. To access Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SUJ-DnoDiAU&feature=g-all-u - 30 -
08.01.2012	SHIELD Act would protect American tech start-ups from predatory lawsuits WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced HR 6245, the bipartisan Saving High-tech Innovators from Egregious Legal Disputes (SHIELD) Act to protect American tech companies from frivolous patent lawsuits that cost jobs and resources. The SHIELD Act will put the financial burden on so-called “patent trolls” that buy patents solely to sue the American tech startups that created the products. The SHIELD Act is cosponsored by Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT). The SHIELD Act is supported by a broad coalition of software and computer hardware companies, consumer groups, and venture capitalists. “Patent trolls don’t create new technology and they don’t create American jobs,” said DeFazio. “They pad their pockets by buying patents on products they didn’t create and then suing the innovators who did the hard work and created the product. These egregious lawsuits hurt American innovation and small technology start ups, and they cost jobs. My legislation would force patent trolls to take financial responsibility for their frivolous lawsuits.” This bipartisan legislation comes after DeFazio heard from small technology firms in his district struggling as a result of costly patent troll litigation. “The SHIELD Act ensures that American tech companies can continue to create jobs, rather than waste resources on fending off frivolous lawsuits. A single lawsuit, which may easily cost over $1 million if it goes to trial, can spell the end of a tech startup and the jobs that it could have created. The tech industry is one of the few bright spots in our economy. It spurs the economy and creates thousands of high-quality jobs. This bill combats the problem of patent trolls by moving to a ‘losers pays’ system for software and hardware patent litigation,” said Chaffetz. Patent trolls often buy broad patents that allow them to file flimsy lawsuits against multiple companies for infringement. Despite very thin evidence to back their lawsuits, companies are often forced to settle because going to court can easily cost over $1 million in legal costs even if the company prevails. Patent trolls most often target software and computer hardware companies. According to a recent Boston University study, patent troll suits cost American technology companies over $29 billion in 2011 alone. The SHIELD act will force patent trolls to take financial responsibility for their lawsuits by allowing defendants to recoup money spent to successfully defend themselves against junk lawsuits. The SHIELD Act does not affect innovators with legitimate patent infringement claims. - 30 -
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) voted in favor of the Federal Reserve Transparency Act (H.R. 459), which will force the Federal Reserve Bank to open its books to independent auditors for the first time. DeFazio is a cosponsor of the legislation and has supported 6 bills to audit the Federal Reserve since 1989. H.R. 459 passed 327-98. The Federal Reserve (Fed) was created in 1912 to safeguard our financial system, protect consumers, and oversee the regulation of banks. However, the Fed has seemed more concerned with protecting its own secrecy and Wall Street over the American public. “The Federal Reserve operates under a veil of secrecy, making deals that benefit Wall Street interests. It’s time for the Fed to be transparent and held accountable to the American people for their economic policies. I am proud to be a long time cosponsor of this legislation and urge the Senate to pass this bill quickly,” said DeFazio. In 2011, Bloomberg News reported that between 2007 and 2010 the Fed secretly loaned six Wall Street megabanks $7.7 trillion in taxpayer dollars. The banks earned an estimated $13 billion in extra income off of these secret below-market Fed loans while consumers and small business struggled to access credit or loans. Americans, and Congress, had no idea. Auditing the Federal Reserve would shed light on backroom deals like this that have benefitted the same Wall Street banks that destroyed the economy. DeFazio has also introduced legislation (H.R. 6023) to adopt conflict of interest rules for the Federal Reserve Board of Directors. Today, the CEOs in charge of the same banks that nearly destroyed the economy remain on the Fed’s Board of Directors and are charged with regulating their own industry. “This outrageous conflict of interest jeopardizes the health of our financial system. Why should the Wall Street banks that gambled with our economy, lost big, and then asked taxpayers for a bailout be allowed to regulate themselves? They have already proven they can’t do it. My legislation would eliminate this conflict of interest and prevent banks from stacking these regulatory boards with their own employees,” said DeFazio. To access Rep. DeFazio’s floor speech, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aum2d-vuwnY&feature=g-all-u To access DeFazio’s radio actuality, download the attached file or go here. - 30 -
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio and Senator Jeff Merkley have joined forces to fight a lawsuit that would prevent the Department of Labor (DOL) from closing foreign worker visa loopholes to protect American workers. DeFazio and Merkley successfully fought for stronger DOL rules to protect American workers and taxpayer dollars. In February, DOL took steps to close loopholes in the visa system that allowed companies to win federal contracts by hiring low wage foreign workers over out-of-work Oregonians. However, in April a Florida landscaping company and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce filed a lawsuit to halt the reforms. The lawsuit claims that DOL does not have the authority to close these loopholes despite the fact that DOL has been issuing visa rules for 60 years. DeFazio and Merkley filed an amicus brief, a formal document, which explains to the court that Congress has given clear authority to DOL to close these loopholes. “It is obscene that U.S. companies who abused legal loopholes to squeeze greater profits out of federal contracts are using our legal system to block reforms that protect American workers. I will continue to fight this frivolous lawsuit, protect jobs here at home, and fix these loopholes. It’s the right thing to do for taxpayers and it’s the right thing to do for American workers,” said DeFazio. “We need to end these abuses so the Oregonians who deserve these jobs, get them,” said Merkley. “I’m pleased to join forces with Congressman DeFazio to fight this lawsuit and make sure that we end the practice of hiring foreign forest workers over Oregonians.” To access DeFazio’s audio statement, click the attached file or go to his website. BACKGROUND In 2010, the Bend Bulletin reported that federal stimulus funds were awarded to private contractors in Oregon who underbid their competition by using foreign laborers. As a result of this reporting, DeFazio asked the DOL Inspector General (IG) to investigate these contracts. The IG investigation found that these companies exploited federal loopholes and hired foreign workers over out of work Oregonians and that federal and state agencies failed to properly oversee the contracts. In response, DeFazio and Merkley fought for changes to the program and DOL agreed to reforms. DeFazio and Merkley introduced The American Jobs in American Forests Act to further reform the H2-B process to ensure that contractors are held to even tougher standards. The amicus brief contains the following statement from DeFazio and Merkley. “Amicus Peter DeFazio represents the Fourth Congressional District of Oregon in the United States House of Representatives and Amicus Jeffrey A. Merkley represents the State of Oregon in the United States Senate. Both represent areas which include extensive public forests that have traditionally provided a substantial number of forestry jobs for U.S. residents of the state. Congressman DeFazio is a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee where he serves as ranking member of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee. DeFazio also serves on the House Natural Resources Committee, where he sits on the National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee. Senator Merkley serves on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, which has jurisdiction that encompasses most federal labor and employment laws, including those that regulate wages and hours of employment. Merkley also serves on the Environment and Public Works Committee which has jurisdiction over environmental laws that interact with management of public forests. In response to a request from DeFazio, last fall the Inspector General for the Department of Labor concluded that at least $7 million in federal stimulus money intended to provide jobs to unemployed Oregonians was instead used to employ 254 H-2B foreign workers in communities with unemployment rates that were much higher than the national average. Congressman DeFazio and Senator Merkley believe that inadequate recruitment requirements and other flaws in the administration of the H-2B program have resulted in the loss of employment opportunities for U.S. citizens and that updated and improved rules for administering the H-2B program would increase employment opportunities for U.S. citizens they represent. Furthermore, Congressman DeFazio and Senator Merkley believe that Congressional intent is clear in providing the Secretary of Labor with the authority to promulgate rules for the H-2B program.” - 30 -
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded the announcement of two Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) grants to non-profit organizations that help homeless veterans with housing in Southwest Oregon. DeFazio had urged the VA to award grants to St. Vincent de Paul Society of Lane County (SVdP) and ACCESS in Southern Oregon. The VA awarded SVdP over $137,000 to help area veterans struggling with household incomes below 50% of the federal poverty level. SVdP helps veterans facing eviction, assists with security and utility deposits, and provides limited assistance for rent and child care. ACCESS, based out of Medford, is leading a collaboration to serve low-income veterans in Coos, Curry, Douglas, Jackson, and Josephine counties. The combined effort will provided needed support to veterans and families struggling to pay rent, utility bills, moving costs, child care, and transportation. The VA awarded ACCESS over $450,000 to assist 200 veteran households in Southwestern Oregon. “Veterans have bravely served their country; they shouldn’t have to fight poverty and homelessness here at home. St. Vincent De Paul and ACCESS provide invaluable services to help low-income veterans and their families become more stable and self-sufficient. These VA grants will ensure the men and women who have served our country get the services they need to get back on their feet,” said DeFazio. St. Vincent de Paul and ACCESS applauded the grants. “We are so pleased at the renewal of our SSVF grant! These funds represent a very valuable tool in the task of ending veteran homelessness. We have served over 37 households, and will have served 50 veteran households at the close of our current grant. These funds will be used either to assist a homeless veteran household to get into housing, or can be used to prevent an eviction for an eligible household. Additional service dollars are used to provide renter education, provide financial education or fund other services to insure continuing housing stability for households served with SSVF funds. The SSVF grant allows us to strategically provide housing assistance, necessary ancillary services, and provide just enough case management to insure each served household has the information and resources to maintain stable housing over time. Our new grant will allow us to serve an estimated 60 households,” said Anne Williams, Housing Programs Director for St. Vincent de Paul in Eugene. “We are thrilled to receive this grant on behalf of a five-county region of Southern Oregon. This collaboration will unite three community action agencies in coordinated efforts on behalf of Southern Oregon veterans. These are United Community Action Network (UCAN), Oregon Coast Community Action (ORCCA), and ACCESS. The grant will benefit vets and their families in Coos, Curry, Douglas, Josephine and Jackson Counties,” said Jackie Schad, Executive Director of ACCESS. - 30 -
07.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio and Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) urging them to find funds to dredge the Port of Port Orford before it becomes unusable and threatens the local economy. DeFazio, Wyden, and Merkley asked the USACE to add funds to dredge the Port of Port Orford to another shallow water dredging contract on the nearby Chetco River. This would save the USACE $400,000 in the long-term and preserve this vital resource. “The Port of Port Orford is a critical lifeline that fuels the local economy, keeps over a hundred fishermen working, and keeps this community alive. We are urging the Army Corps of Engineers to add this shallow water dredging project to the contract already servicing the Chetco River. It will save the Corps money in the long-term and fulfill its commitment to safeguard our infrastructure in ports both big and small,” said DeFazio. “Whether it’s maintaining jetties or dredging harbors, keeping coastal ports open for business is a federal obligation and is money well spent,” Wyden said. “Ensuring that ports such as Port Orford remain operational helps drive the local economy, save existing jobs, create new jobs and generate economic development at a time we need it most.” “Oregonians living in coastal communities depend upon the dredging of their ports so they can support their families,” said Merkley. “Without proper dredging, rural communities like Port Orford see their economies dry up. We cannot allow the Port of Port Orford to become unusable and cost further job loss. We need to continue investing in Oregon’s coastal communities and dredging our small ports is one of the most critical things we can do.” A group of Port Orford fishermen has organized a petition on change.org. Community members can show support for the project by signing the petition at: https://www.change.org/petitions/army-corps-of-engineers-keep-the-port-in-port-orford Text of the DeFazio, Wyden, Merkley letter is below: July 12, 2012 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistance Secretary of the Army, Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0108 Dear Ms. Darcy: We are writing to request the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) consider using any unallocated funds for dredging at the Port of Port Orford. The Port is in dire need of dredging and will soon be unusable. The Port of Port Orford, located in Port Orford, Oregon, is unique in that it has no harbor so it is directly exposed to the Pacific Ocean. It is also the only port on West Coast that uses a dolly dock to retrieve boats out of the water once they enter the Port. According to the Port, it hosts 60 commercial fishing vessels that employ 120 individuals. Their catch value was $5 million last year. The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and Oregon State University have also based research operations at this port to study the new Redfish Rocks Marine Reserve. As early as 1873, the USACE began developing plans to construct and build a breakwater at Port Orford to protect it from waves. By 1935, a breakwater was built by “local interests” to protect a pier, but it was not completely effective. The USACE then built a 550 foot extension of the breakwater in 1968, but that extension caused the Port to infill with sand. Emergency dredging took place in 1970, but the problem of sand infiltration did not abate. A 1981 USACE study of shoaling at this Port noted that breakwaters are a good tool to protect against waves. However, if such structures are constructed on “a shoreline with a substantial littoral sediment transport,” and “no other measures are taken,” sediment deposition will begin to accumulate and infill the channel. This is the case at the Port of Port Orford, in part because of the lengthened breakwater. We have each have worked diligently during our tenures in Congress to secure federal funds to dredge small ports along Oregon’s south coast. Administration after administration, regardless of party, has failed to budget needed funds for even the most modest of dredging projects in this area despite having research in-hand that clearly demonstrates its own past construction work exacerbates the need for ongoing dredging. We have had to fight nearly every year to secure funds in the congressional budget process for this work. These federal funds are essential to keep our ports open and safe, and to ensure Oregon’s coastal communities are able to thrive. Last January, the USACE did not allocate a portion of its $30 million in the FY 2012 Energy and Water Appropriations bill for shallow draft ports to the Port of Port Orford for dredging. The USACE Portland District has since scheduled the hopper dredge, YAQUINA, to dredge several ports along Oregon’s coast. Even if the USACE Portland District had the financial resources to dredge Port Orford, it is too shallow for the YAQUINA to enter. It requires a clamshell or a similar dredge to get in and do the work. We have recently learned that the USACE Portland District will be letting an emergency contract to have a private clamshell dredge areas of the Checto River in Oregon. This work is part of an emergency clean-up effort from last year’s tsunami. The USACE Portland District says it will cost an extra $800,000 to include dredging at the Port of Port Orford in this contract. A stand-alone contract would cost an additional $400,000. We respectfully request you consider allocating any unused USACE funds to include the Port of Port Orford in this dredging contract. We are well aware that USACE budgets have been underfunded for too many years leaving many worthy projects short of needed maintenance funds. However, we are convinced this request deserves additional consideration. The Port is the community’s lifeline. Failing to dredge a port that experiences rapid sand infiltration as direct a result of a past USACE construction project seems unreasonable. We also request you view this video made by community residents about current conditions at the Port. It highlights the need for this work: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVewO9qo0f0. We are available to further discuss this matter with you either in person or over the phone. Sincerely, RON WYDEN JEFF MERKLEY PETER DeFAZIO United State Senator United State Senator Member of Congress - 30 -
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded the passage of a temporary one-year extension of vital Secure Rural Schools Payments included in surface transportation legislation. As a primary negotiator, DeFazio fought to include the temporary extension of county payments for Oregon counties in the legislation. The legislation also prevents Stafford student loan interest rates from doubling for over 7.5 million students, including 120,000 students in Oregon. DeFazio statement is below: “The passage of a transportation bill is a huge victory for tens of thousands of Oregonians. “First and foremost, it contains a one-year extension of county payments. That’s $100 million to counties in southwest Oregon and rural schools, to help them deal with their financial difficulties. This means counties may be able to restore critical services like jail beds and sheriff’s patrols. “Secondly, the bill contained one year of lower interest rates for 120,000 students in Oregon who are getting Stafford student loans. Without this fix, their interest rates would double on July 1st. We have staved off that disaster and I’ve introduced a bill to make their lower interest rates permanent. “And finally the jobs. Millions of jobs across the country will be created or saved because of this 27 month surface transportation bill. It means a tremendous investment in Oregon’s roads, bridges, highways, and transit systems. At home, it means thousands of people will be put to work and it helps small businesses that supply the industry. This bill also contains the same formula I negotiated six years ago in the last major transportation bill that means Oregon will be a net-beneficiary. That means we will get more dollars to fix our roads, bridges, and highways than we send to Washington, D.C. through the gas tax. “All in all, this is great news just in time to celebrate our nation’s birthday on the 4th of July.” BACKGROUND COUNTY PAYMENTS In March, the Senate attached a one-year extension of Secure Rural Schools funding for forested counties nationwide to its two-year transportation bill (S 1813), Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21). On April 18th, the House passed the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, Part II (H.R. 4348). This 90-day extension of the surface transportation programs through September 30, 2012, is the legislative vehicle the House used to conference with the Senate. Last fall, DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader worked with stakeholders to reach a bipartisan agreement on a long-term plan for the O&C counties. Since then, they’ve been working with the House Resources Committee to integrate the provisions of their proposal into larger committee legislation. Currently, House Resources is working out the details of the larger bill. A discussion draft was posted to the member’s websites in February where constituents can send feedback and suggest changes to the draft. STUDENT LOANS The Stafford Subsidized Loan interest rate was set to increase from 3.4% to 6.8% on July 1st. This would have affected all future borrowers and current students that take out new loans for the upcoming academic year. In May, DeFazio introduced legislation that would permanently keep interest rates low for students without increasing the federal deficit. His legislation increases the tax rate by 1 percent on income above $380,000 which is still far below the Clinton tax levels and far exceeds the revenue needed to permanently lock in low interest rates for students According to the Oregon University System, college tuition at Oregon’s four year institutions has increased by nearly 50% over the last 10 years. Tuition has skyrocketed and students have taken on bigger and more expensive loans to get their degree. In 2010-2011 Stafford loans made up 35% or $40 billion of the total student loan market. Cost of college tuition has increased five- fold since 1985 and for the first time ever student loan debt tops credit card debt, exceeding $1 trillion. TRANSPORTATION In the transportation bill passed today, Oregon will receive a total of $483.2 million in federal-aid highway funds in FY 2013 and $487.4 million in FY 2014 for highways. Oregon will also receive $93.6 million in transit formula funding in FY 2013 and $94.9 million in FY 2014. The funding formulas in this federal transportation reauthorization bill are based on the formulas from Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). During the 2006 SAFETEA-LU negotiations, DeFazio was able to boost Oregon’s formula funds over previous bills. This significantly increased Oregon’s share of federal highway dollars and turned the state from being a donor state to a donee state. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, every billion dollars invested in transportation infrastructure creates or sustains over 34,000 jobs and produces $6.2 billion in economic activity. Audio clip available here. - 30 -
06.27.2012	Provides rural Oregon counties with needed breathing room WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced that a temporary one-year extension of vital Secure Rural Schools Payments will be included in a final surface transportation conference bill. DeFazio has been involved in the joint House-Senate negotiations over a two-year surface transportation bill and successfully fought to include the temporary extension of county payments for Oregon counties. “Recent county budget cuts have forced painful layoffs, eliminated jail beds releasing inmates early, and limited county sheriff’s ability to respond to rural emergencies. This temporary extension will provide much needed breathing room for forested communities in Oregon that are quickly approaching financial disaster. “Ultimately our counties and rural communities need a long term solution – and this extension gives us the time we need to pass comprehensive federal legislation. I have proposed a bipartisan agreement with Rep. Walden and Rep. Schrader that can break us out of the decades-long logjam on federal forest policy, put Oregonians back to work, improve forest health, and disentangle the health of rural counties from unpredictable federal support payments. We will continue to work with the House Resources Committee to move this long-term solution for Oregon forested communities,” DeFazio said. The one-year extension designates just under $100 million for schools, roads, and law enforcement in failing rural counties in Oregon for the next fiscal year. BACKGROUND In March, the Senate attached a one-year extension of Secure Rural Schools funding for forested counties nationwide to its two-year transportation bill (S 1813), Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21). On April 18th, the House passed the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, Part II (H.R. 4348). This 90-day extension of the surface transportation programs through September 30, 2012, is the legislative vehicle the House used to conference with the Senate. Last fall, DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader worked with stakeholders to reach a bipartisan agreement on a long-term plan for the O&C counties. Since then, they’ve been working with the House Resources Committee to integrate the provisions of their proposal into larger committee legislation. Currently, House Resources is working out the details of the larger bill. A discussion draft was posted to the member’s websites in February where constituents can send feedback and suggest changes to the draft. See DeFazio video statement pt 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GZP30cysmCY DeFazio video statement pt 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Hrc6lEjFBk - 30 -
06.06.2012	June 6, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) offered an amendment to prohibit oil and gas companies convicted of violating antitrust laws and colluding to raise prices from receiving taxpayer financed grants, loans, or subsidies. DeFazio’s amendment was blocked from receiving a vote by Republican leadership. “For more than a month, millions of consumers in Oregon, Washington, and California have been paying at least 50 cents per gallon more than the average price of gasoline in the United States,” said DeFazio. “In May I asked the Department of Justice for an investigation into the suspicious ‘scheduled maintenance’ by California refineries that restricted supply and pushed West Coast gas prices sky high. I have also asked President Obama to weigh in. While I continue to push for immediate relief for consumers, I am fighting to make sure corporations found guilty of ripping off American consumers aren’t rewarded with taxpayer dollars. My amendment would have made sure that companies convicted of gouging people at the pump aren’t receiving scarce taxpayer dollars.” Last night, DeFazio joined 102 Republicans to vote for an amendment to strip all fossil fuel research and development subsidies for oil and gas companies. But DeFazio’s more targeted amendment to go after bad actors was blocked by the Republican leadership from even receiving a vote. “Fighting illegal activity in the marketplace should not be a partisan issue. If these companies violated the law to collude and gouge consumers, there should be consequences. Enforcing our laws, rooting out bad actors that collude and manipulate prices, and protecting American consumers should be a shared goal. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership disagrees.” said DeFazio. To access DeFazio’s floor speech on this amendment, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1HcrK74SLpE BACKGROUND In mid-May, DeFazio requested that the Justice Department’s Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group investigate the recent decline in West Coast oil refinery production as gas price jumped throughout the region. The Justice Department cannot disclose details of pending or potential investigations; however DeFazio’s May 17th letter was referred to representatives of the Working Group, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The letter is also being reviewed by the criminal, civil, and antitrust divisions of the Department of Justice. In February a large fire broke out at the BP oil refinery in Cherry Point, Washington. The Cherry Point refinery is the largest oil refinery in Washington and the third largest on the West Coast. It processes approximately 230,000 barrels of crude oil each day and provides 85 percent of the jet fuel used at the Sea-Tac International Airport. The Associated Press found that five of California’s twelve oil refineries reduced production just before the Memorial Day holiday because of “scheduled maintenance” while the Cherry Point refinery remained closed. Cherry Point refinery restarted operations just after Memorial Day. According to AAA, the average price of regular gasoline in Oregon has hovered over $4.20 while the national average price has dropped to $3.56. The Clinton administration added a Federal Acquisition Regulation to ensure that federal contractors meet certain standards, including “hav[ing] a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics including satisfactory compliance with the law including tax laws, labor and employment laws, environmental laws, antitrust laws, and consumer protection” (CFR 9.104-1(d)). The Bush administration changed the regulations upon assuming office. DeFazio’s amendment reinstates the Clinton Federal Acquisition Regulation as it applies to antitrust law for the Assistant Secretary of Fossil Fuel within the Department of Energy – thus specifically targeting oil and gas companies. - 30 -
06.01.2012	June 1, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) asked President Obama to support an immediate investigation into the suspicious “scheduled maintenance” by refineries that restricted supply and has pushed West Coast gas prices more than 50 cents per gallon higher than the national average. DeFazio’s letter comes as the Justice Department’s Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group considers the request for an investigation. “I am asking the president to send a clear message to the oil and gas industry that his administration is serious about reining in abuses in our energy markets,” said DeFazio. “His support would also help motivate refineries on the West Coast to increase refinery capacity and provide the most immediate relief to nearly 50 million Oregonian, Californian, and Washingtonian consumers. Another six to eight weeks of near-record gas prices on the West Coast would be devastating to families and small businesses. I hope he will join me in publicly supporting an immediate investigation into rising West Coast gas prices and the suspicious reduction in California refinery production.” The Justice Department cannot disclose details of pending or potential investigations; however DeFazio’s May 17th letter was referred to representatives of the Working Group, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The letter is also being reviewed by the criminal, civil, and antitrust divisions of the Department of Justice. BACKGROUND In mid-May, DeFazio requested that the Justice Department’s Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group investigate the recent decline in West Coast oil refinery production as gas price jumped throughout the region. In February a large fire broke out at the BP oil refinery in Cherry Point, Washington. The Cherry Point refinery is the largest oil refinery in Washington and the third largest on the West Coast. It processes approximately 230,000 barrels of crude oil each day and provides 85 percent of the jet fuel used at the Sea-Tac International Airport. The Associated Press found that five of California’s twelve oil refineries reduced production just before the Memorial Day holiday because of “scheduled maintenance” while the Cherry Point refinery remained closed. Cherry Point refinery restarted operations just after Memorial Day. According to AAA, the average price of regular gasoline in Oregon has hovered at $4.30 while the national average price has dropped to $3.70. LETTER May 31, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, D.C. 20005 Dear Mr. President: I am writing to seek your assistance in providing immediate gas price relief for millions of West Coast consumers by publicly supporting an investigation into reduced refinery capacity in the State of California and high prices on the West Coast. On April 21, 2011 Attorney General Holder announced the creation of the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group to monitor oil and gas markets for potential violations of criminal or civil laws to safeguard against unlawful consumer harm. I applauded your administration’s leadership on this issue and commended Attorney General Holder for his public commitment to have the Working Group be “…vigilant in monitoring the oil and gas markets for any wrongdoing so that consumers can be confident they are not paying higher prices as a result of illegal activity.” Unfortunately, West Coast consumers are not confident that they are paying a fair price for gas. As national gas prices drop below $3.70 per gallon, West Coast consumers are paying $4.22 per gallon – more than 50 cents higher. Even when gas prices dropped by seven cents per gallon on the East and Gulf coasts in the last week, prices dropped by a penny on the West Coast. Millions of Oregonians, Californians, and Washingtonians are understandably frustrated and angry as analysts predict near-record high gas prices may continue for the next six to eight weeks. Continued high gas prices on the West Coast – while the rest of the nation begins to enjoy some much needed relief – is costing jobs, impacting small businesses, and making life even more difficult for already economically distressed families. On May 17, 2012 I sent a letter to the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group requesting an immediate investigation into rising gas prices on the West Coast. Specifically, I requested the Working Group initiate an investigation into the recent decline in California oil refinery production following a fire at a BP-owned refinery in Washington state – one of the largest refineries on the West Coast. While the BP refinery facility stood idle, at least five California refineries coincidentally reduced production because of “scheduled maintenance.” The substantial decline in refinery production over such a short period on the West Coast is suspicious at best and predatory at worst. Why five California refineries would plan maintenance for the beginning of the summer when Americans drive the most, when refined oil is at the highest demand, when there is no physical shortage of crude oil, and when the third largest refinery on the West Coast is not producing – is difficult to explain. One obvious reason is that oil companies know they can make more money by making less gasoline – even if that comes at the expense of American consumers and small businesses. I recently learned my letter to the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group was referred to representatives of the Working Group, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. I also understand my letter is being reviewed by the criminal, civil, and antitrust divisions of the Department of Justice. I am encouraged that the Working Group is taking action on my request and hopeful that the Working Group will eventually uncover whether any violations of criminal or civil laws, such as collusion to manipulate prices, have been committed. But more immediate action is needed. While I understand it is not Department of Justice policy to disclose the details of pending or potential investigations, I urge you to publicly support an investigation into West Coast gas prices. Such an announcement would send a clear message to the oil and gas industry that your administration is serious about reining in abuses and criminal violations in our energy markets. It would also help motivate refineries on the West Coast to increase refinery capacity and provide the most immediate relief to nearly 50 million Oregonian, Californian, and Washingtonian consumers. Another six to eight weeks of near-record gas prices on the West Coast would be devastating to families and small businesses. I hope you will join me in publicly supporting an immediate investigation into rising West Coast gas prices and the suspicious reduction in California refinery production. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress A radio actuality file is attached to this email. You can also access the file here. - 30 -
05.31.2012	May 31, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC –Today, the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR) released a report supporting legislation introduced by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) that would protect the Social Security Trust Fund for at least 75 years. DeFazio’s bill H.R. 797 preserves the Social Security Trust Fund by closing a tax loophole so millionaires would pay the same percentage of their salaries to Social Security as the average American worker. Under current law, individuals earning over a million dollars only pay a Social Security tax on one-tenth of their salary. CEPR’s report evaluated how DeFazio’s bill would affect working Americans and found that it would only apply to 1.4% of all working Americans. “CEPR’s report proves that you can protect Social Security for our children and grandchildren by simply closing a tax loophole for people making $250,000 or more,” said DeFazio. “We know that Social Security faces future challenges and the Republican majority has threatened it further with talk of privatization or benefit cuts. We do not have to cut and we do not have to end a system Americans have paid into their entire lives. My bill is a common sense, long term solution. It’s a small price to pay for the security of our future seniors.” H.R. 797, the No Loopholes in Social Security Taxes Act Background This legislation will guarantee Social Security remains solvent for at least 75 years. Currently, 94% of Americans pay the Social Security tax on all of their income. The bill subjects all income over $250,000 to the 6.2% Social Security tax rate, making sure that every American pays their fair share. As a presidential candidate President Obama stated, with regard to Social Security, “the best way forward is to first look to adjust the cap on the payroll tax… that way we can protect the promise of Social Security without shifting the burden onto seniors.” Obama’s idea for adjustment was to finally apply Social Security payroll taxes to all income above $250,000. You can read the CEPR report here: https://www.cepr.net/documents/publications/ss-2012-05.pdf - 30 -
05.30.2012	May 30, 2012 Introduces legislation to stop student loan interest rate hikes WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) has introduced legislation that would prevent Stafford student loan interest rates from doubling for over 7.5 million students, including 120,000 students in Oregon. The Stafford Subsidized Loan interest rate is set to increase from 3.4% to 6.8% on July 1st. This affects all future borrowers and current students that take out new loans for the upcoming academic year “The next generation of business leaders, political leaders, doctors, teachers, engineers and others shouldn’t be priced out of a quality education,” said DeFazio. “I have proposed legislation that would permanently keep interest rates low for students without increasing the federal deficit. My legislation increases the tax rate by 1 percent on income above $380,000 which is still far below the Clinton tax levels and far exceeds the revenue needed to permanently lock in low interest rates for students. A permanent extension will help 7.5 million students per year by saving them an average of $4,000 in increased interest payments. According to the Oregon University System, college tuition at Oregon’s four year institutions has increased by nearly 50% over the last 10 years. Tuition has skyrocketed and students have taken on bigger and more expensive loans to get their degree. In 2010-2011 Stafford loans made up 35% or $40 billion of the total student loan market. Cost of college tuition has increased five- fold since 1985 and for the first time ever student loan debt tops credit card debt, exceeding $1 trillion. Republican leadership recently passed the Ryan budget, which would slash higher education funding by $16 billion a year, cut student loans for more than 9 million students, eliminate Pell Grants for over one million students, and it would have locked in a 6.8% Stafford loan interest rate permanently. Lane Community College Student Body President Mario Parker-Milligan applauded the DeFazio legislation. “Students are graduating from college but our debt loads are increasing and we are finding fewer jobs upon graduation. With all of these other barriers; low federal and state investment pricing students out of tuition, low financial aid leads to high student debt, and few jobs upon graduation, the prospect of having Stafford Loans’ interest rates doubling is a haunting thought. Students are continuing to pay more and get less for our education,” said Parker-Milligan. Watch a floor speech from Rep. DeFazio here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4RjkGqJhagI&feature=g-all- - 30 -
05.17.2012	Oil refinery production decreasing while West Coast gas prices shoot sky high WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) has requested that the Justice Department’s Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group investigate the recent decline in West Coast oil refinery production as gas price jumped throughout the region. According to the Associated Press (AP) five of California’s 12 oil refineries reduced production because of “scheduled maintenance” while the largest refinery in Washington state remained closed after catching fire in February. “The recent run up in gas prices in Oregon and Washington is very suspicious at best,” said DeFazio. “While the rest of the country is enjoying a decline in gas prices, we are seeing our gas prices skyrocket. Earlier this year the Cherry Point refinery in Washington state suffered fire damage. But that was a known fact. Somehow, the largest refinery cartel in California decided to schedule ‘maintenance’ just before Memorial Day weekend and create a shortage resulting in increased prices. There is something fishy here. I have asked the president’s special task force working on energy price manipulation for an immediate investigation to this coincidental scheduled maintenance while prices continue to skyrocket in the Pacific Northwest.” The average price of regular gasoline in Oregon is $4.16- up 16 cents from last week. The average prices in Washington state and California are $4.20 and $4.35 respectively- also double digit increases. Meanwhile, the national average price of regular gasoline dropped by 5 cents to $3.73. In February a large fire broke out at the BP oil refinery in Cherry Point, Washington. The Cherry Point refinery is the largest oil refinery in Washington and the third largest on the West Coast. It processes approximately 230,000 barrels of crude oil each day and provides 85 percent of the jet fuel used at the Sea-Tac International Airport. A planned restart of the Cherry Point refinery failed last week due to an “undisclosed problem.” To access the radio actuality click here. May 17, 2012 Mr. Ronald H. Weich Assistant Attorney General for Office of Legislative Affairs U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Room 1145 Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Mr. Weich: I am writing to request that the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group initiate an investigation into the recent decline in California oil refinery production following the fire at BP’s Cherry Point refinery in Washington state and rising gas prices on the West Coast. The average price of regular gasoline in Oregon is $4.17 – up 16 cents from last week. The average prices in Washington state and California are $4.20 and $4.35 respectively – also double digit increases. Meanwhile, the national average price of regular gasoline dropped by 5 cents to $3.73. In February a large fire broke out at the BP oil refinery in Cherry Point, Washington. The Cherry Point refinery is the largest oil refinery in Washington and the third largest on the West Coast. It processes approximately 230,000 barrels of crude oil each day and provides 85 percent of the jet fuel used at the Sea-Tac International Airport. The Associated Press (AP) reported on May 14, 2012 that a planned restart of the Cherry Point refinery failed last week due to an “undisclosed problem.” The AP also reported that, coincidentally, five of California’s 12 oil refineries also reduced production because of “scheduled maintenance.” When questioned further about the timing of the closure and its idle refinery in Martinez, California, a Tesoro spokesperson declined to discuss the problems and told the Oregonian they would simply “pass on this interview opportunity.” The substantial decline in refinery production over such a short period on the West Coast is suspicious at best and predatory at worst. The current situation brings to mind the content of three internal memos from Mobil, Chevron, and Texaco leaked in the late 1990s that explicitly revealed how the oil and gas industry intentionally reduced domestic refinery capacity to drive up profits. Part of the Texaco memo reads: “As observed over the last few years and as projected well into the future, the most critical factor facing the refining industry on the West Coast is the surplus of fining capacity and the surplus gasoline production capacity… This results in very poor refinery margins and very poor refinery financial results.” The truth is, oil companies know they can make more money by making less gasoline – even if that comes at the expense of American consumers and small businesses. As you likely recall, in the mid-1990s a major effort was initiated by the American Petroleum Institute – the lobbying and research arm of the oil industry – to encourage oil refiners, including refiners on the West Coast, to close their doors. The irony is not lost on me that the location of one of the current idle California refineries was also the location of a refinery Shell Oil Company attempted to needlessly shut down in the 1990s. There is no apparent shortage in crude oil and demand for refined oil products remains depressed. In fact, exports of gasoline from the West Coast are rising. According to the Energy Information Administration exports of gasoline from the West Coast totaled 1.4 million barrels in 2007 and 15.5 million barrels in 2011 – a ten fold increase. Why five California refineries would plan maintenance for the beginning of the summer when Americans drive the most, when refined oil is at the highest demand, and when the third largest refinery on the West Coast is not producing – is difficult to explain. Was maintenance planned by California’s refiners before the Cherry Point refinery announced its failure to restart? Are the maintenance activities being undertaken by the California refiners typical this time of year? The continued rise in oil prices on the West Coast – while the rest of the nation enjoys some price relief – is costing jobs, impacting small businesses, and making life even more difficult for already economically distressed families. I encourage the Working Group to investigate this matter and determine if any violations of criminal or civil laws, such as collusion to manipulate prices, have been committed. As Attorney General Eric Holder stated when the Working Group was launched in 2011, “If illegal conduct is responsible for increasing gas prices, state and federal authorities should take swift action.” I couldn’t agree more. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress - 30 -
05.17.2012	USPS changes course; gives Congress time to work on a long term solution WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded a decision by the United States Postal Service (USPS) to postpone the closure of the Gateway Mail Processing Center. USPS announced today that they intend to postpone closure until January 2014, allowing Congress more time to pass legislation that will sustain the postal service, avoid unnecessary closures that hurt rural communities, and save American jobs. “The Postmaster General finally listened to the concerns of hundreds of thousands of individuals and small businesses that rely on USPS and delayed his shortsighted plan to close mail processing centers that are essential to the communities they serve,” said DeFazio. “The Gateway Processing Center isn’t safe yet, but this delay gives Congress time to come together and work on a serious long-term solution. I will continue to fight for HR 3591, the Postal Service Protection Act, legislation I introduced to help solve the serious financial issues facing the USPS while protecting postal service in rural communities.” DeFazio has criticized the Postmaster General’s plan to close thousands of rural post offices and processing centers since it was announced last year. DeFazio attended the December 2011 USPS community meeting on the Gateway closure and questioned the data used to determine closures. In fiscal year 2011 the Gateway Distribution Center processed 349 million pieces of mail, a 10% increase over the previous year. The delay caused by sending all mail to Portland for processing would significantly impact weekly newspapers and businesses that rely on timely mail service, especially in rural communities. DeFazio heard from a number of small businesses and weekly newspapers who believe the delays would kill their business. Every workday over 300,000 veterans use the Veterans Administration’s mail order pharmacy. According to the State Senior Health Benefits Insurance Assistance (SHIBA), an estimated 25% of the people who contact them get their medications by mail. These delays would also affect these veterans and seniors who rely on USPS to deliver the prescription drugs they need. BACKGROUND ON DEFAZIO’S LEGISLATION HR 3591, Postal Service Protection Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) · The bill fixes the immediate fiscal problems faced by USPS by allowing them to recover overpayments made to its pension plans. Estimates show that the Postal Service has overpaid by anywhere from $7 to 50 billion. · The bill eliminates the required $5 billion a year pre-funding of future retiree health benefits. · The bill prevents closure of rural post offices by giving the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRG) binding authority to prevent closures based on the effect on the community and on employees; not just profit. Currently the PRG only acts in an advisory role. · The bill requires strict delivery standards for 1st class mail delivery that would make it more difficult to close area mail processing centers. · The bill would statutorily require 6 day delivery. · The bill establishes new ways for USPS to generate revenue by providing non-postal services like new media services, issuance of licenses, shipment of beer and wine and shifting more toward electronic mail. - 30 -
04.27.2012	Votes against legislation to raid funding for preventative health screenings WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) voted against legislation that guts funding for counties to provide breast and cervical cancer screenings, newborn birth defect testing, and child immunization for low-income women and children in order to pay for reduced student loan interest rates. “I have fought to lower student loan interest rates on direct student loans for my entire career,” said DeFazio. “We can keep these interest rates low, but we should not be forced to choose between vital funding for county public health programs that provide essential services to low income Americans and low interest rates for student loans. There are a number of ways to keep student loan interest rates at current levels without adding to the deficit. We could adjust the top tax rate by 1% on income above $380,000 for two years. We could close tax loopholes for oil companies making record profits. But these options were blocked from consideration because of anti-tax ideologues. Counties already struggling to provide basic public services should not see vital funding used as a political football.” The National Association of Counties (NACo) opposed the legislation, warning it would eliminate vital county health programs that provide for disaster preparedness and other health emergencies. “The next generation of business leaders, political leaders, doctors, teachers, engineers and others shouldn’t be priced out of a quality education. I support responsible legislation that would stop the student loan interest rate hike without raiding a fund that provides preventative health care for low-income Americans,” said DeFazio. DeFazio supports alternative legislation that would maintain low interest rates for Stafford student loans without gutting public health programs. HR 3826 prevents the doubling of student loan interest rates. HR 4816 prevents the student loan interest rate hike without adding to the deficit by eliminating tax breaks for oil and gas corporations making record profits. He has been a consistent supporter of federal higher education programs such as Pell grants, federal work study, and student loan forgiveness to help make college more affordable. He was proud to support the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) which became law in 2010. SAFRA eliminated taxpayer financed subsidies to banks making federal educational loans in favor of a more cost efficient model, the Direct Loan program. Eliminating bank subsidies resulted in $61 billion in tax-payer savings over the next 10 years. BACKGROUND The Stafford Subsidized Loan interest rate is set to increase from 3.4% to 6.8% on July 1st. This affects all future borrowers and students who are currently enrolled who take out new loans for the upcoming academic year. A one year extension will help 7.4 million students by saving them $6 billion over the next ten years. It will save each student an average of $1,000 in increased interest payments. In 2010-2011 Stafford loans made up 35% or $40 billion of the total student loan market. Cost of college tuition has increased five- fold since 1985 and for the first time ever student loan debt tops credit card debt, exceeding $1 trillion. Two-thirds of all college students graduate with loans averaging over $25,000. This isn’t the first assault on student financial aid. In addition to raising the interest rate, Republicans have proposed to cut Pell Grants and work study in their FY2013 budget crafted by Rep. Paul Ryan. The GOP budget slashed higher education funding by $166 billion over 10 years. The budget cut college aid for more than 9 million students, cut the maximum Pell Grant below current-law levels, and eliminated grants for 400,000 students in 2013 alone. The budget also eliminated the income-based repayment program that helps graduates manage their loans. - 30 -
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC— Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Greg Walden (OR-02), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) announced the Oregon State Sheriffs’ Association’s (OSSA) recent endorsement of the bipartisan O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act. The OSSA joins a long list of local supporters for the plan, which aims to break the decades-long logjam on federal forest policy, put Oregonians back to work, improve forest health, and disentangle the health of rural counties from unpredictable federal support payments. In January, the Oregon State Legislature overwhelmingly passed a resolution of support for the DeFazio-Walden-Schrader plan. Fifteen county boards of commissioners also passed resolutions of support so far this year. And a poll commissioned by the Association of O&C Counties in March revealed that 67% of Oregonians support the plan. “Sheriffs in Oregon have been forced to stretch their budgets to the limit for years. Recent budget cuts have forced painful layoffs, eliminated jail beds, restricted hours of service, and limited their ability to respond to rural emergencies. Our bipartisan plan would provide needed revenue to struggling rural Oregon communities and prevent disastrous budget cuts to public safety. We thank the Sheriffs for their strong support and thank them for their service to Oregon,” said Rep. DeFazio. “Oregon’s sheriffs are on the front line of keeping our communities safe,” Rep. Walden said. “We appreciate their strong support of our legislation to give rural Oregon communities the resources they need to create jobs in the woods to support essential local services like law enforcement, education, and roads.” "Our Sheriffs are committed to maintaining the security of Oregon's counties. Unfortunately, they are one of the first to get hit with layoffs and restricted services in a slowly recovering economy. With so many of rural Oregon communities edging an economic cliff, our plan would provide certainty of keeping doors open while putting more jobs back in the woods. This endorsement should send a strong message to Congress: move the bipartisan O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act forward," said Rep. Schrader. Background Last fall, DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader worked with stakeholders to reach a bipartisan agreement on a long-term plan for the O&C counties. Since then, they’ve been working with the House Resources Committee to integrate the provisions of their proposal into larger committee legislation. Currently, House Resources is working out the details of the larger bill. A discussion draft was posted to the member’s websites in February where constituents can send feedback and suggest changes to the draft. -30-
04.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), ranking member of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, issued the following statement today after he was named one of the principal House negotiators of a long-term surface transportation bill that will create hundreds of thousands of private sector construction, manufacturing, engineering, and small business jobs. DeFazio is one of 21 House members (12 Republicans, 9 Democrats) named as conferees. The conference will include negotiations over a temporary one-year extension of vital county payments for Oregon counties. DeFazio’s statement is below. “I am pleased the House has broken through its dysfunction and named conferees so we can begin to work with the Senate on long-term transportation legislation. The lack of a long-term bill is creating economic uncertainty across the country. States struggling with serious budgetary issues have already begun to delay or cancel vital transportation infrastructure projects for this construction season. Private sector construction, manufacturing, engineering, and architecture firms, and other suppliers won’t hire workers for the season if we don’t hammer out an agreement soon. As a conferee, I am committed to working through our differences and crafting a bipartisan solution so we can put people back to work. “As a principal negotiator of long-term, job creating transportation legislation, I will also be fighting for the temporary extension of vital county payments for Oregon counties. A temporary extension will provide much needed breathing room for forested communities in Oregon that are on the brink of financial dissolution. Ultimately our counties and rural communities need a long term solution. I have proposed a bipartisan agreement with Rep. Walden and Rep. Schrader that can break us out of the decades-long logjam on federal forest policy, put Oregonians back to work, improve forest health, and disentangle the health of rural counties from unpredictable federal support payments. I will do everything I can to include a temporary extension of SRS in conference that would help bridge the gap until our long term strategy can be passed by Congress.” BACKGROUND In March, the Senate attached a one-year extension of Secure Rural Schools funding for forested counties nationwide to its two-year transportation bill (S 1813), Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21). The extension would deliver at least $100 million in support payments for failing rural counties in Oregon. On April 18th, the House passed the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, Part II (H.R. 4348). This 90-day extension of the surface transportation programs through September 30, 2012, is the legislative vehicle the House used to conference with the Senate. This upcoming conference of the House and Senate passed bills will include negotiations over this critical lifeline to Oregon’s forested communities. DeFazio will fight to include this one-year county payments reauthorization in the final bill. - 30 -
04.20.2012	Urges GOP leadership to quickly conference on Senate Transportation Bill WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) applauded the passage of an amendment that protects funds intended for critical maintenance dredging in our nation’s ports and harbors. Currently, funds collected in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) for dredging are raided to fund a host of non-harbor related projects. The amendment, offered by Rep. Charles Boustany (R-La.), passed on the floor by voice vote. The Boustany amendment is identical to legislation DeFazio authored that previously passed the House Transportation Committee. “Oregon’s ports are in serious need of dredging and repair. Jetties at the mouths of the Columbia River and the Port of Coos Bay are failing. And many of the ports in my district or shoaling in. The Corps of Engineers has long been shorted in the budgeting process leaving the cash-strapped unable to deal with its $40 billion backlog of critical projects. Funds collected for harbor maintenance must be spent on harbor maintenance. The amendment that passed today will guarantee the funds collected for harbor maintenance are used for that purpose so we can begin to properly rebuild jetties and do the other work to maintain our locks and channels. This change is long overdue and will go a long way towards creating needed jobs to rebuild critical maritime infrastructure,” said DeFazio. The Boustany amendment was attached to another short-term extension of surface transportation funding passed in the House. This passage ensures the House and Senate will come together to negotiate a long-term surface transportation bill. In March, the Senate attached a one-year extension of Secure Rural Schools funding for the 18 O&C counties attached to a two-year transportation bill. This upcoming conference of the House and Senate passed bills will include negotiations over this critical lifeline to Oregon’s forested communities. DeFazio will fight to include this one-year county payments reauthorization in the final bill. “The House finally found the path out of dysfunction junction on transportation,” said DeFazio. “I supported today’s extension but we need a long-term transportation bill as soon as possible. States are already laying construction workers off because of the uncertainty Congress has created. We need to go to an expedited conference and come up with a bipartisan long term solution as soon as possible to erase the uncertainty for our states and counties and get people back to work.” - 30 -
04.06.2012	Local veterans and hospitals applaud DeFazio bills to close VA loopholes WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) introduced two bills that will lower health care costs for veterans, make it easier for veterans to access the Veterans Administration (VA) healthcare system, and prevent older veterans from unexpected out of pocket healthcare costs. ”If a veteran has an health emergency and calls 911, that veteran shouldn’t have to worry if they are going to be stuck with that bill for their care,” said DeFazio. “I have heard from a number of constituents affected by bureaucratic loopholes that unfairly burden veterans and local hospitals. This legislation will close these loopholes to ensure that the VA fulfills it’s commitment to pay for the care of those who have served our country.” BACKGROUND H.R. 4246 The VA Enrollment Act A flaw in current law prevents the VA from paying for emergency, non-service connected care of certain veterans at non-VA hospitals. Those not covered include veterans who haven’t enrolled with the VA and veterans who haven’t been seen by a VA doctor in the past two years. As a result, these veterans are unfairly stuck with massive medical bills that often get passed along to local hospitals. DeFazio had heard from local hospitals that have treated a number of veterans affected by this legislative oversight. DeFazio’s legislation would expand VA eligibility to uninsured veterans and ensure that these veterans and local hospitals aren’t forced to foot the bill for non-service connected health care the VA should pay for. Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg applauded the DeFazio bill. “We are very encouraged that Congressman DeFazio has taken a leadership role to benefit our veterans. We have had numerous conversations with the Veterans Administration and Congressional Delegates about enhancing benefits for local veterans. We are hopeful that Congress will be in agreement with Congressman DeFazio and will vote to support our veterans,” said Kelly Morgan, CEO of Mercy Medical Center. H.R. 4245 Veterans Co-Pay Fairness Act The VA fully covers the cost of emergency visits by uninsured veterans to non-VA hospitals. However, older uninsured veterans covered by Medicare are forced to pay out of pocket for all co-pays for an identical visit to that non-VA hospital. DeFazio’s Veterans Co-Pay Fairness Act would cover veterans’ out of pocket Medicare co-pays for such visits. Veterans should not be forced to pay out of pocket for their emergency care just because they have reached Medicare age. “I strongly support H.R. 4245 as it eliminates Medicare co-pays for qualified veterans who seek emergency care at a non-VA facility. This care would be provided at no cost to the veterans if they could go to a VA facility, but when that is not possible, the elimination of this co-pay can make a bad situation better for the veteran and their family,” said Director of Oregon Veterans Affairs Jim Willis Lane County Veterans Service Officer Joseph Reiley said, “The VA estimates that there currently are over 15,000 Lane County Veterans who are over 65 and many of these veterans rely on the VA for the majority of their health care needs. However, not all veterans can make it to a VA facility in an emergency. Sometimes they must seek care at the closest hospital and then end up with huge medical bills. In certain situations, the VA will cover these expenses, but VA rules forbid helping veterans with their portion if they have any health insurance – even Medicare. Congressman DeFazio’s bill would help fill this gap and provide piece of mind for the thousands of Lane County veterans who are over 65 and on Medicare but who utilize VA health care. No longer would they be faced with the dilemma of dropping Medicare in order to increase their chance at VA helping out in an emergency. Medicare, a benefit they pay for, would be the primary payer and the VA, a benefit they earned, would help them with the difference.” - 30 -
03.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today released draft maps forecasting the division of the O&C lands under the bipartisan O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Proposal (OCTCJA). In February, DeFazio, and Representatives Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) publicly released a balanced, long-term O&C plan that would provide revenue to struggling rural Oregon communities, create jobs, and provide important protections for the environment. The OCTCJA would divide the O&C lands roughly in half. Younger, previously managed timber stands would be managed by a public and diverse board of Oregonians appointed by the governor. Younger stands, known as “O&C Trust Lands” are depicted in yellow in the maps. The OCTCJA transfers the remaining land, including more than 1 million acres of mature and old growth forests, from the Bureau of Land Management to the Forest Service and provides the first ever legislative protection for old growth on O&C Lands. Forest stands transferred to the Forest Service are depicted in green in the maps. The newly released draft maps gives Oregonians a ground level look at what lands would be managed for sustainable-yield timber production and what land would be set aside for conservation. “The maps provide Oregonians with a graphic representation of the bipartisan O&C proposal,” said DeFazio. “While we continue to make improvements to these draft maps, they will help inform those interested in finding a long-term solution to our forest management and rural community challenges. As I have said from the beginning of this process, I continue to encourage Oregonians to read the discussion draft, take a look at the recently released maps, and submit meaningful comments to my website at www.defazio.house.gov.” DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader worked with stakeholders to reach a bipartisan agreement on a long-term plan for the O&C counties. Since then, they’ve been working with the House Resources Committee to integrate the provisions of their proposal into committee legislation. - 30 -
03.14.2012	March 14, 2012 “This temporary extension will provide much needed breathing room for forested communities in Oregon that are on the brink of financial dissolution. Passage out of the House will be tough given the House Republican’s inability to put together a passable, bipartisan transportation package. However, I am hopeful and will work with my colleagues to pass this critical funding through the House. Ultimately our counties and rural communities need a long term solution. I have proposed a bipartisan agreement with Rep. Walden and Rep. Schrader that can break us out of the decades-long logjam on federal forest policy, put Oregonians back to work, improve forest health, and disentangle the health of rural counties from unpredictable federal support payments. The temporary extension of SRS would help bridge the gap until our long term strategy can be passed by Congress.”
03.07.2012	Legislation Will Reform Temporary Visa Program WASHINGTON – Today, Oregon’s Senator Jeff Merkley and Rep. Peter DeFazio introduced The American Jobs in American Forests Act to tighten restrictions on a visa program that was used to hire foreign workers at the expense of Oregon forest workers. Last year, a Department of Labor investigation found federal stimulus funds were awarded to contractors in Oregon who underbid competition by using foreign laborers under the H-2B visa program. After Merkley and DeFazio requested changes to the program last year, the Department of Labor agreed to certain reforms that will go into effect next month. The Merkley-DeFazio bill would further reform the H-2B process to ensure that contractors are held to even tougher standards. “Nobody could claim with a straight face that there weren’t Oregonians available to do forest thinning work in 2009 and 2010,” said Merkley. “It’s obvious that the H-2B visa program is being abused and that stricter standards are necessary to ensure Americans have a full opportunity to fill these jobs.” “The Department of Labor has made some common sense changes, but we need to do more to ensure that federal dollars that go to federal projects hire American workers,” said DeFazio. “Companies that game the system and exploit immigration loopholes to undercut competition should not be awarded federal contracts. Many of the DOL’s failings have been addressed, but our legislation will further strengthen their rule changes to protect American workers.” “Unscrupulous contractors used loopholes within the H-2B program to get around hiring qualified Oregonian workers,” said Mike Wheelock, owner of Grayback Forestry in Merlin. “Grayback received over a 1000 applications during this time period from hardworking Oregonians who were desperate for work. Sadly, companies like ours were adversely impacted by negligent efforts to enforce the H-2B regulations. I want to thank Senator Merkley for his vigilant efforts to put pressure on the US Department of Labor and for the proposing of corrective legislation to close these loopholes within the H-2B guest worker system.” In 2010, The Bend Bulletin ran a series of articles highlighting possible H-2B Visa irregularities related to Forest Service contacts in Central Oregon funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The H-2B visa program allows employers to temporarily hire foreign workers if they can establish that no Americans are qualified or available for the work. In the case of the contractors involved with the 2009 stimulus funding, no meaningful effort was made to hire Oregonians. DeFazio asked the DOL’s Inspector General (IG) to review these irregularities and their investigation found federal stimulus funds were awarded to contractors in Oregon who underbid competition by using foreign laborers. The IG report can be found here: https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2012/17-12-001-03-321.pdf. Merkley and DeFazio previously called on the Department of Labor, the Office of Management and Budget, and the U.S. Forest Service to make changes to how the program is administered and how the Forest Service conducts oversight of contractors performing work in federal forests. The American Jobs in American Forests Act would make three key changes to the DOL’s H-2B visa program: 1) Enhanced recruitment: Employers, before submitting a petition to hire H-2B workers, would have to conduct robust recruitment of U.S. workers including advertising at job fairs, with local and state workforce agencies and nonprofits (and other appropriate entities), advertising on local radio and reputable Internet job-search sites, and other recruitment strategies that the state workforce agency considers appropriate. 2) State Workforce Agencies: Before the Secretary of Labor could grant a temporary labor certification to an employer to hire H-2B workers, the Director of the state workforce agency must certify that the employer has complied with all recruitment requirements and must make a formal determination that Americans are unavailable to fill the employment opportunities offered by the prospective H-2B employer. 3) Itineraries covering multiple states: If an employer seeks to be certified for a work itinerary that covers multiple states and if the work outside the primary state lasts for seven days or longer, the employer will have to submit a separate application for the work planned in the other state or states. According to a February 15 letter from Laurie Warner, Director of the Oregon Employment Department, to U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, Oregon’s job seeker database includes 4,110 Forest and Conservation Workers and 1,237 Forest and Conservation Technicians actively seeking work. ###
03.07.2012	NEWS Asks President Obama to support legislation to curb gas price speculation Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to President Obama, asking him to support legislation that will bring immediate relief to American families and small businesses being crushed by high gas prices. H.R. 2003, the Taxing Speculators Out of the Oil Market Act would target Wall Street speculators that are responsible for unnecessarily inflating the price of gas up to 80 cents a gallon. “Wall Street speculators are manipulating the gas market to make massive profits while middle class families are digging deep to pay for skyrocketing gas prices,” DeFazio said. “I asked President Obama to support my legislation to end this unnecessary speculation and bring immediate relief to Americans struggling to fill up their tanks. Congress has a choice. Either it passes legislation that goes after the excessive Wall Street speculation causing these skyrocketing prices or it once again kicks the can down the road with half-measures that only score political points.” DeFazio’s legislation will deter speculation by raising the cost to bet on oil markets. By charging a miniscule 0.01 percent tax on each transaction, excessive speculation would become too expensive and risky. Discouraging excessive oil speculation will lower gas prices up to 80 cents a gallon because it does not tax oil, just Wall Street speculators. For the last decade, rising speculation in the oil markets has added considerable volatility to the price of oil. Last year, Reuters reported that Wall Street speculation added between $21.40 and $26.75 per barrel of crude oil. These numbers were based on a report by Goldman Sachs, one of the biggest speculators in the world market. In 2005, Congress passed the Enron loophole that allows Wall Street speculators to enter the energy futures markets. Today up to 70% of oil trading is done by Wall Street speculators who are allowed to bet on oil prices even though they are not oil users. All of this speculating by Wall Street bankers substantially drives up the price Americans pay at the pump. To watch a floor speech on the legislation, go here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=705MImXbatM&feature=channel_video_title A copy of DeFazio’s letter to President Obama is below. March 6, 2012 Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, DC Dear President Obama: Thank you for elaborating on your views of escalating gas prices at your weekly address on March 3, 2012. I wholeheartedly agree with you on “pursu[ing] an all-of-the-above strategy that helps develop every source of American energy.” However, I strongly disagree with you that “There’s no silver bullet for avoiding spikes in gas prices every year. There’s no shortcut to taking control of our energy future.” On the contrary, for the last decade, rising speculation in the oil markets has added considerable volatility to the price of oil. The bottom line is that oil speculation is artificially jacking up gas pump prices. In May of last year, Exxon Mobil Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rex Tillerson testified to the Senate that oil should cost between $60 and $70 per barrel, if the price of oil were based on supply and demand fundamentals. The price of oil on that day was $98 a barrel. That equates to a speculation premium of $28 to $38 a barrel. On March 21 of last year, Goldman Sachs, one of the biggest traders in oil derivatives, estimated in a research note that every million barrels of oil held by speculators contributed to an 8 to 10 cent per barrel rise in the oil price. Reuters news service used Goldman’s 8- to 10-cent estimates to calculate the total speculative premium in U.S. crude oil is between $21.40 and $26.75 a barrel. The price of oil has both rocketed and plunged over the last decade without a clear connection to the laws of supply and demand. The price of a barrel of oil predictably hovered around $20 a barrel of oil for decades. In the beginning of 1999, the price was about $10 a barrel of oil, but since then the oil market has been plagued by speculation. After a long steady rise the price of oil peaked at $145 per barrel of oil in mid 2008, up 1450% in less than ten years. Since the peak we have seen wild fluctuations in price that do not correlate to demand. The price of oil collapsed in late 2008 to just over $30 a barrel of oil. Today the price of oil is once again above $100 a barrel for little economic reason. These large price swings coincide with a drop in demand since 2005. In 2010, the U.S. consumed 2.1 million barrels of oil per day less than it did six years ago. In the last year, demand for crude oil dropped 4.6% while demand for gasoline dropped 6.4%, according to the EIA, the statistical arm of the Energy Department. Finally, it is becoming very lucrative for the oil companies to export gasoline. Since 2007, the U.S. has doubled its gasoline exports. There is no shortage. Many economists have attributed this irrational behavior of the oil market to the large increase in speculative trading in oil derivatives. Crude oil is now the world’s most actively traded commodity futures contract. Speculators now account for 70% percent of contracts for future oil delivery. These speculators are largely big investment banks and hedge funds who never take control of the oil. They just flip the contract for a quick profit. Prominent economists argue that a transaction tax on speculative trading will deter short-term speculation, which will reduce the volatility and price of oil. James Tobin, a Nobel Prize winner in economics, stated a security transaction tax "would automatically penalize short-horizon round trips, while negligibly affecting the incentives for … longer-term capital investments." Larry Summers, your former Chairman of the National Economic Council, wrote in 1989 that imposing a securities transaction tax “would have the beneficial effects of curbing instability introduced by speculation, reducing the diversion of resources into the financial sector of the economy, and lengthening the horizon of corporate managers. The efficiency benefits derived from curbing speculation are likely to exceed any costs or reduced liquidity or increased costs of capital that come from taxing financial transactions more heavily.” I support your call to roll back big oil’s egregious tax subsidies and I ask that you support H.R. 2003, the Taxing Speculators Out of the Oil Market Act. This legislation will deter speculation by raising the cost to bet on oil markets. By charging a miniscule 0.01 percent tax (1 basis point) on derivatives of crude oil (futures, options and swaps), speculators would be dissuaded from excessive speculation. Oil prices will then return to accurate price discovery following the supply and demand price curve. American drivers will see fair gas prices and our economy will not be further constrained by excessive oil speculation. The bill explicitly exempts all legitimate hedgers from the tax so they see no effect except less volatility and lower oil prices. Airlines, trucking companies, railroads, refineries, manufacturers, and oil companies would likely see a reduction in fuel prices because the reduction in speculative trading. To prevent traders from moving their business overseas, all U.S. citizens must pay the tax no matter where they trade. Foreign citizens must pay the tax if they trade on U.S. based exchanges or are dealing with a U.S. citizen in an over-the-counter trade. Finally the bill places all the revenues into an offsetting account to fund the Commodities Future Trading Commission (CFTC). As you know, your administration has called for a transaction fee revenue stream to fund the CFTC, which is how the SEC is currently funded. Sincerely Peter DeFazio Member of Congress - 30 -
02.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC-- U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) responded to the United States Postal Service’s (USPS) announcement that they will move forward on a plan to close processing facilities, including the Springfield-Gateway, Bend, Pendleton, and Salem processing centers. Following are DeFazio's remarks: “Congress must work together and pass legislation that will sustain the postal service, advert unnecessary closures that hurt rural communities, and save American jobs. I will continue to fight for HR 3591, the Postal Service Protection Act, and HR 3592, the Protecting Rural Post Office Act, legislation I introduced to help solve the serious financial issues facing the USPS while protecting postal service in rural communities. But today’s announcement by the Postmaster General to move forward with the closures of hundreds of mail distribution centers, including four in Oregon, is outrageous. These closures are based on questionable data that the USPS admits doesn’t address long term solvency. Time and again the Postmaster General has failed to listen to the concerns of hundreds of thousands of individuals and small businesses that rely on USPS. He has also ignored alternative solutions offered by Congress to avoid such drastic measures. I find it stunning he is moving forward with a short-sighted proposal that fails to address serious long-term financial issues facing USPS and will ultimately lead to the end of the Postal Service and universal postal delivery in this country.” BACKGROUND ON DEFAZIO’S LEGISLATION HR 3591, Postal Service Protection Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) · The bill fixes the immediate fiscal problems faced by USPS by allowing them to recover overpayments made to its pension plans. Estimates show that the Postal Service has overpaid by anywhere from $7 to 50 billion. · The bill eliminates the required $5 billion a year pre-funding of future retiree health benefits. · The bill prevents closure of rural post offices by giving the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRG) binding authority to prevent closures based on the effect on the community and on employees; not just profit. Currently the PRG only acts in an advisory role. · The bill requires strict delivery standards for 1st class mail delivery that would make it more difficult to close area mail processing centers. · The bill would statutorily require 6 day delivery. · The bill establishes new ways for USPS to generate revenue by providing non-postal services like new media services, issuance of licenses, shipment of beer and wine and shifting more toward electronic mail. HR 3592, Protecting Rural Post Office Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) · The bill precludes USPS from closing any post office which results in more than 10 miles between any 2 post offices. - 30 -
02.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Greg Walden (R-Hood River), and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) will release a discussion draft of their bipartisan O&C Trust proposal for public comment this afternoon. DeFazio and Schrader will also hold a media availability to provide an update on the status of the bipartisan effort. Last fall, DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader worked with stakeholders to reach a bipartisan agreement on a long-term plan for the O&C counties. Since then, they’ve been working with the House Resources Committee to integrate the provisions of their proposal into committee legislation. The discussion draft will be posted to the member’s websites, where constituents can send feedback and suggest changes to the draft. “Time is running short for our rural counties, and they deserve a long-term solution. We have finalized a discussion draft of our unique plan for the O&C lands and intend to release it tomorrow. The plan is separate from HR 4019, which is under mark up in the Natural Resources Committee. We still have outstanding issues that we are working out with committee and will continue to work with them as we move through the legislative process,” DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader said. WHO: Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader WHAT: Press conference on OCTCJA DATE: Thursday, February 16 TIME: 11:00 am Pacific time WHERE: Satellite feed and conference call from Washington, D.C. TV STATIONS: Satellite coordinates Galaxy 19 C-band analog @ 97 degrees west Transponder 8 Downlink @ 3860 Horizontal Audio @ 6.2 or 6.8 *To ask questions, stations must dial into the conference line at 800-857-9756 and enter the passcode 54439. *CONTACT THE HOUSE RECORDING STUDIO WITH ANY PROBLEMS 202-225-3941* NEWSPAPER:*To patch into the conference call, dial 800-857-9756 and enter the passcode 54439 to listen and ask questions of the Congressmen. -30-
02.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio responded to President Obama’s budget for fiscal year 2013. Following are DeFazio's remarks: “The president’s budget includes over $294 million for Secure Rural Schools as part of a five year reauthorization. He also designates county payments as a mandatory program, ensuring that this critical lifeline to rural Oregon counties will not be held hostage by the hyper-partisanship plaguing Congress over the last year. This support from the president is helpful, but time is running short for Oregon’s forested communities that face crushing unemployment. Rural Oregon counties have already been forced to make serious cuts in funding for schools, law enforcement and other essential county services. We need a short-term reauthorization of SRS to keep counties afloat like the president has offered. But we also need a long term sustainable forest management strategy that will create thousands of jobs, stabilize funding for timber dependent communities, and restore forest health. I will continue to fight for the bipartisan proposal that Representatives Schrader, Walden and I have agreed to and that would accomplish all of these goals.” - 30 -
02.10.2012	*Radio Actuality Available* DEFAZIO SECURES PROTECTIONS FOR AMERICAN WORKERS Department of Labor closes H-2B loopholes WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) applauded the Department of Labor’s (DOL) decision to make critical changes to their H-2B temporary worker program. DeFazio urged DOL to quickly make these changes after an Office of Inspector General (IG) report found federal stimulus funds were awarded to contractors in Oregon who underbid competition by using foreign laborers. DeFazio initiated the IG investigation after the Bend Bulletin reported that several companies awarded Forest Service contracts filed H-2B applications to use foreign workers rather than Oregon workers. “These were common sense changes that needed to be made. The stimulus money was intended to create jobs for American workers, not foreign workers,” said DeFazio. “U.S. companies that game the system and exploit immigration loopholes to undercut competition should not be awarded federal contracts. The Department of Labor has addressed many of their failings and closed the loopholes these companies took advantage of. I will continue to work with the Department of Labor to make meaningful changes to protect American workers.” To Access the Radio Actuality: 2.10.12 DeFazio Statement on H-2B Visa Reforms CHANGES MADE TO H-2B PROGRAM · The Oregon Stimulus contracts were awarded to companies who then advertised in obscure papers outside of the state in order to avoid hiring American workers. Employment opportunities will now be advertised in the states in which work will be done. The new DOL rule requires local employer advertising, local recruitment through State Workforce Agencies, and posting on a national database. In addition, employers must now provide documentation that they are complying with this rule. · The IG report found that employers given Oregon Stimulus contracts failed to notice the State Workforce Agency of open positions. DeFazio had asked that the DOL require contractors to alert State Workforce Agencies of employment opportunities in the states in which work will be done. The new rule does this. · The IG audit identified that current H2B regulations permit a four month gap between U.S. worker recruitment/job offer and the job start date, which contractors used to avoid hiring American workers. DeFazio urged the DOL to require that positions be advertised reasonably near to the date of employment. The new rule requires that H-2B applications be submitted between 75 and 90 days before the date of need. Recruitment of US workers must continue until 21 days before the date of need. · The IG audit found that certain State Workforce Agencies did not fulfill their responsibilities, and DOL could improve its oversight and monitoring to better protect the interests of U.S. workers under the regulations. DOL has strengthened oversight of H-2B applicants and State Workforce Agencies. As mentioned, recruitment must now be fully documented. · According to interviews with workers, the OIG found that the employers used discouraging language such as references to age and the ability to speak additional languages in their recruiting process. Neither reference was a job requirement of H-2B applications. The DOL will now require that employers use identical and relevant employment requirements when recruiting U.S citizens and H-2B workers performing the same job. Background: In 2010, the Bend Bulletin ran a series of articles highlighting possible H-2B Visa irregularities related to Forest Service contacts in central Oregon funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The H-2B non-agricultural temporary worker program allows U.S. employers to bring foreign nationals to the United States to fill temporary nonagricultural jobs. Federal regulations require that employers who file H-2B petitions must include a certification from the Department of Labor (DOL) stating that qualified workers are not available in the U.S. and that the foreign worker’s employment will not adversely affect wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers. DeFazio asked IG to review DOL’s certification of these the H-2B applications in question for any improprieties. In response to the IG’s findings, DeFazio sent a letter to the Department of Labor, demanding they reform the H-2B visa program to ensure that taxpayer dollars intended to hire American workers are not used to hire foreign workers. - 30 -
02.08.2012	Legislation would defend property rights and prevent increased energy costs for Americans WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation today that would protect private property from potential eminent domain proceedings on a pipeline designed to export liquefied natural gas (LNG). The U.S. Constitution limits the use of eminent domain. “The Constitution is quite clear, the government can only authorize the use of eminent domain if the action serves the public,” said DeFazio. “Landowners should not be forced to give up their property so private companies and foreign manufacturers can ship low cost natural gas overseas and spike energy prices here at home. My bill simply strengthens our constitutional property rights and gives property owners a level playing field in negotiating access to their land.” DeFazio’s legislation blocks eminent domain for projects designed solely to export U.S. natural gas. The legislation does not stop LNG exports, but it ensures no property owner will be forced to sell their land to facilitate LNG exports. The company would have to make the landowner an offer acceptable to the owner, or the company must find another route. Under current law, bureaucrats at the Federal Energy Regulatory Committee (FERC) have the power to grant private companies the ability to use eminent domain for a pipeline route designed to export LNG. Under this legislation, the bureaucrats at FERC would no longer have that power. A recent Department of Energy (DOE) analysis shows that the exportation of LNG could raise the price of natural gas by almost 11 percent for U.S. households and 27 percent for industrial users making energy intensive industries less competitive. Higher natural gas prices will shift more electricity generation to coal-burning power plants and potentially raise the price of electricity by up to nine percent. This study is strong evidence that LNG exports do not meet the “public use” test. [see study at https://www.eia.gov/analysis/requests/fe/pdf/fe_lng.pdf] - 30 –
01.12.2012	DeFazio won partnership designation for Oregon schools in 2005 EUGENE, OR—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio applauded a Department of Transportation (DOT) decision to give a University Transportation Center (UTC) grant of $3.5 million to Portland State University (PSU), the University of Oregon (UO), the Oregon Institute of Technology (OIT), and the University of Utah (UT). The grant will continue vital transportation research and technology innovation. DeFazio sent the DOT a letter in support of partnership’s grant request. In 2005, DeFazio secured language in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) designating four Oregon universities as a UTC. “The U.S. Department of Transportation has recognized the incredible work being done by this UTC,” said DeFazio. “In 2005, I designated funds in SAFETEA-LU, a federal surface transportation bill, to create this UTC. It has been on the cutting edge of transportation innovation and advanced research. This grant will continue the UTC’s work to improve the transportation infrastructure that is vital to our economic competitiveness here in Oregon and across the country.” BACKGROUND The UTC program was created in 1988 to meet the nation’s need for the safe, efficient and environmentally sound movement of people and goods through research, education, and technology transfer. Participating universities are involved in a variety of advanced and applied research ranging from intelligent transportation systems and fuel-efficient vehicle deployment to innovations that will improve passenger safety and reduce traffic and freight congestion. National UTCs are expected to provide national leadership in advancing research and technology solutions to America’s transportation challenges. SAFETEA-LU established 59 UTCs including Oregon’s collaborative. SAFETEA-LU expired on September 30, 2009, and has been extended eight times by Congress. Both chambers of Congress are currently working on an updated legislation for a multi-year surface transportation bill. Until that happens, the DOT developed a competitive grant program for one year to extend UTCs and their research. They established 20 UTC consortia centers including two that will focus on public transportation issues. Applicants needed to demonstrate research in areas that support one or more of the strategic goals including safety, economic competitiveness, environmental sustainability, state of good repair, and livable communities. For more information visit https://otrec.us/. -30-
12.16.2011	Omnibus bill protects foreign worker loophole at the expense of Oregonians WASHINGTON, DC-- U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) rejected H.R. 2055, an omnibus spending bill because it protects a loophole that allowed forestry contractors to hire underpaid foreign workers using stimulus dollars and deny jobs to Oregonians. DeFazio requested the Department of Labor close the loophole after discovering several local companies had hired foreign workers for federal contracts. H.R. 2055 blocks efforts by the Department of Labor (DOL) to protect America workers by reforming the H2-B visa process and closing this egregious loophole. A recent Office of Inspector General (IG) report found federal stimulus funds were awarded to contractors who underbid competition by using an H2-B loophole to hire foreign laborers. The DOL reform would have required all H2-B visa workers are paid the prevailing wage to avoid undercutting American workers. “This should be a no brainer. Congress should have allowed the DOL to prohibit contractors from exploiting loopholes to undercut competition and use cheap foreign labor,” said DeFazio. “Instead, the interests of a special few trumped the interests of unemployed American workers. I could not support a bill that forbids the DOL from making common sense rule changes to protect American workers.” DeFazio had asked for the IG review after the Bend Bulletin reported that several companies awarded Forest Service contracts, then filed H-2B applications to use foreign workers rather than Oregon workers. DeFazio sent a letter to the DOL, urging them to reform the H-2B visa program to ensure that taxpayer dollars intended to hire American workers are not used to hire foreign workers. DOL agreed and planned to change the rule. - 30 -
12.15.2011	Over 20 Oregon post offices taken off the closure list WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) applauded the United States Postal Service’s decision to take the Agness post office off its list of proposed closures. DeFazio had sent a letter to the Postmaster General strongly urging USPS to keep this post office open. If the Agness post office had closed, residents would have been forced to drive 70 miles round trip to and from Gold Beach for services. “I’m glad that USPS listened to the community’s concerns and pulled Agness from the chopping block. The closure would have placed a real burden on people in the area,” said DeFazio. “Residents would have been forced to drive 70 miles on a winding road to receive mail service. I will continue to push the USPS to consider creative solutions that could save USPS substantial money and services. This news, along with the news that USPS is putting off their closure plans until May, is a step in the right direction.” USPS previously announced that several post offices in DeFazio’s district would be closed if the postmaster’s plan is carried out. Post offices still in danger of being closed include Broadbent, Cascadia, Deadwood, Gardiner, Swisshome, Tiller and Walton. DeFazio has introduced two pieces of legislation to help solve the serious financial issues facing the USPS and protect postal service. BACKGROUND ON DEFAZIO’S LEGISLATION HR 3591, Postal Service Protection Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) · The bill fixes the immediate fiscal problems faced by USPS by allowing them to recover overpayments made to its pension plans. Estimates show that the Postal Service has overpaid by anywhere from $7 to 50 billion. · The bill eliminates the required $5 billion a year pre-funding of future retiree health benefits. · The bill prevents closure of rural post offices by giving the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRG) binding authority to prevent closures based on the effect on the community and on employees; not just profit. Currently the PRG only acts in an advisory role. · The bill requires strict delivery standards for 1st class mail delivery that would make it more difficult to close area mail processing centers. · The bill would statutorily require 6 day delivery. · The bill establishes new ways for USPS to generate revenue by providing non-postal services like new media services, issuance of licenses, shipment of beer and wine and shifting more toward electronic mail. HR 3592, Protecting Rural Post Office Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) · The bill precludes USPS from closing any post office which results in more than 10 miles between any 2 post offices. - 30 -
12.15.2011	*Video Available* DoD conference committee strips Pentagon audit requirements but keeps controversial terrorism language WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) opposed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) after a joint Senate-House conference committee stripped out language that would have required the Pentagon to produce auditable financial statements. “This year the Pentagon will spend $670 billion,” said DeFazio. “That’s more than any other federal agency and yet it is the only one that is exempted from a financial audit. In July, the House unanimously voted to approve my amendment to audit the Pentagon and provide Congress a clear picture that allows us to target wasteful and duplicative spending. But in a closed door meeting of the conference committee, a deal was cut to drop similar language that would have required an audit in two years. One member on the committee said it was insulting to ask the Pentagon for an audit. What’s insulting is that they closed the conference to cut these backroom deals. The taxpayers deserve accountability.” DeFazio’s amendment to end the Pentagon’s special audit exemption would have required it to complete its first audit by 2012. DeFazio recently sent a letter to conference committee members, urging them to keep the Pentagon audit language in the NDAA. DeFazio delivered a floor speech excoriating committee members for allowing the Pentagon to continue to waste taxpayer dollars as our deficits reach all time highs. Find the video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAJapz7XNt8&feature=channel_video_title DeFazio also objected to language that could allow the federal government to waive constitutional rights to indefinitely detain Americans suspected of terrorism. “As I have repeatedly stated, the federal government need not trample over the U.S. Constitution in order to protect Americans from terrorism and foreign threats. I continue to have serious concerns about provisions in this bill that would require all terrorism suspects, including American citizens, to be held indefinitely and exclusively in military custody. Besides raising constitutional questions and exposing the federal government to serious litigation risk, this would undermine the ability of the FBI and local law enforcement to participate in counterterrorism operations, which would negatively impact our national security,” said DeFazio. “According to my colleagues, the Pentagon is ‘Too Big To Be Counted’ and constitutional rights granted to American citizens can be dismissed. This bill fails to serve our men and women in uniform well, it does not serve the national defense needs of the United States of America, and it doesn't serve the interests of Americans.” BACKGROUND In 1990, Congress passed a law requiring all federal agencies – including DoD – to present auditable financial statements. But for the last two decades, the Pentagon has never complied. The DoD Inspector General and the General Accounting Office (GAO) have documented serious errors in the Pentagon’s financial record keeping. For example, a March 2000 Inspector General report found that nearly one third of the accounting entries in the Pentagon’s $7.6 trillion budget were untraceable. In 2003, the IG found that the army lost track of 56 airplanes, 32 tanks and 36 missile command launch units. In 2004, the GAO found that the DoD spent $100 million over a six year period on unused, refundable airline tickets. The Pentagon never asked for refunds. In response, in 2001, Congress directed DoD to improve its financial management policies, procedures, and internal controls to make sure its audits were accurate and complete. This gentle nudge from Congress did not change DoD’s ways. In 2005, Congress barred the DoD from obligating or expending funds to complete an audit until the Secretary submits a financial management improvement plan. The ban on completing an audit is contained in Section 376 of the Fiscal Year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act. In 2009, Congress set a “goal” – not a mandate – to complete an audit by September 30, 2017. Yet, during a September 2010 hearing, Pentagon officials stated that meeting the 2017 timeline may not be realistic and the agency may need more money from Congress to achieve full auditability. The DoD continues to shirk its fiduciary responsibilities under the law as Congress continues to appropriate record level defense budgets. The taxpayers deserve accountability for all federal departments. - 30 -
12.08.2011	** LOCATION CHANGE ** DEFAZIO PRESS CONFERENCE ON CHANGES TO U.S. POSTAL SERVICE WASHINGTON, DC-- U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will hold a press conference on the changes to U.S. Postal Service at 1:30pm December 9th. The location of the press conference has changed. It will now be held in the State Farm Insurance parking lot at 1084 Postal Way, Springfield, OR, across from the north side of the USPS Gateway Processing Facility. USPS announced earlier this week, that it will move forward on a plan to end next day mail service, severely restrict service to rural communities, close processing facilities significantly delaying mail service, and ultimately lay off an estimated 100,000 people. The Gateway Mail Processing Center, which services all of Southern Oregon, is in jeopardy of being closed. In fiscal year 2011 the Gateway Distribution Center processed 349 million pieces of mail, a 10% increase over the previous year. USPS previously announced that several post offices in DeFazio’s district would be closed if the postmaster’s plan is carried out. Post offices in danger of being closed include Agness, Broadbent, Cascadia, Deadwood, Gardiner, Swisshome, Tiller and Walton. Friday December 9th: 1:30-2:00pm Postal Service Press Conference Parking Lot of State Farm Insurance Across the street from the Gateway Mail Processing Center 1084 Postal Way, Springfield, OR SCHEDULED SPEAKERS Congressman Peter DeFazio Springfield Mayor Christine Lundberg Kevin Card, president of Oregon State Association of Letter Carriers Union Scott Olson, owner of the Springfield Times, Creswell Chronicle and two other mail-dependent papers Barbara Sumner, senior citizen, who will talk about impact loss of service will have for her Jim Williams, General Manager of The Duck Store DeFazio plans to discuss two pieces of legislation he introduced to help solve the serious financial issues facing the USPS without seriously disrupting postal service in rural communities. BACKGROUND ON DEFAZIO’S LEGISLATION HR 3591, Postal Service Protection Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) · The bill fixes the immediate fiscal problems faced by USPS by allowing them to recover overpayments made to its pension plans. Estimates show that the Postal Service has overpaid by anywhere from $7 to 50 billion. · The bill eliminates the required $5 billion a year pre-funding of future retiree health benefits. · The bill prevents closure of rural post offices by giving the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRG) binding authority to prevent closures based on the effect on the community and on employees; not just profit. Currently the PRG only acts in an advisory role. · The bill requires strict delivery standards for 1st class mail delivery that would make it more difficult to close area mail processing centers. · The bill would statutorily require 6 day delivery. · The bill establishes new ways for USPS to generate revenue by providing non-postal services like new media services, issuance of licenses, shipment of beer and wine and shifting more toward electronic mail. HR 3592, Protecting Rural Post Office Act · Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) · The bill precludes USPS from closing any post office which results in more than 10 miles between any 2 post offices. - 30 -
12.05.2011	December 5, 2011 Press Release | Contact: Jen Gilbreath (202) 225-6416 Plans will close Gateway Processing Center and local offices WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) responded to the United States Postal Service’s announcement to move forward on a plan to end next day mail service, severely restrict service to rural communities, close processing facilities significantly delaying mail service, and ultimately lay off an estimated 100,000 people. Today’s announcement puts the Gateway Mail Processing Center in jeopardy. USPS previously announced that several post offices in DeFazio’s district would be closed if the postmaster’s plan is carried out. Post offices in danger of being closed include Agness, Broadbent, Cascadia, Deadwood, Gardiner, Swisshome, Tiller and Walton. DeFazio called for the current Postmaster General to be fired for his lack of imagination or initiative to save the postal service. “This would be an incredible blow to our economy,” said DeFazio. “With real unemployment at 16% we cannot afford another 100,000 people laid off. I’ve already heard from small business owners that rely on USPS and are concerned that this plan would kill their businesses. Some rural Oregonians would have to drive 15 or 20 miles to access their mail. Subscribers of small rural weekly newspapers would have to wait 7-9 days for their papers to be delivered. This is a short sighted proposal that fails to address the serious long term issues facing USPS.” To access DeFazio’s 12/5 floor speech on USPS, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3p-myaEd2Hs&feature=g-all A transcript of DeFazio’s floor speech on USPS is below: “Later today, something stunning is going to happen that will catch many Americans by surprise. The so-called Postmaster General is going to announce details that will lead to the end of the United States Postal Service and universal postal delivery in this country. “This is an incredible blow to our economy. They are talking about closing processing centers. Let me just be specific. In my area, they are talking about closing the Eugene-Springfield processing center. That means if I mail a letter from Springfield to Eugene, which is six or seven miles away, it will be carried by truck to Portland, Oregon and sorted there and trucked back down, sometime, that week. “They are saying they will no longer guarantee one day or two-day delivery on first class mail. We don't have Saturday delivery under this plan, so if you mail a letter or a bill on Wednesday, it won't get there until the next Monday. They will drive more people to use the services that have cut into their revenues. “But some people don't have that option and some things are essential to commerce in this country. There are many, many businesses that will be affected by these delays. Things like prescription drugs or Netflix mailing DVDs or people buying things on eBay and these things will flood over to U.P.S. and FedEx and further undermine USPS revenues. “The so-called Postmaster General, who should be fired because of a lack of any imagination or initiative, is proposing the death knell for the postal service. One hundred thousand people will be laid off. And then he is going to close local post offices. Talk about Tiller, OR in my district. Tiller is sixteen miles to the next town on a windy road subject to heavy rain, subject to black ice and snow in the winter time. Generally elderly population and generally not very affluent. These sorts of closures that will save miniscule amounts of money for the Post Office are going to be death knell blows to small rural communities across America. “Weekly periodicals. Seven to nine days for your weekly periodicals, that's going to do a great thing for the remaining periodical industry. And again, driving people to look for alternatives that will further undermine their revenues. “I don't think there could be a more short sighted proposal. There is plenty of blame going around because this congress has failed to act. The postal service overpaid $7 billion into a federal retirement account but the Republicans are refusing to give the money back to the post office. They would rather lay off 100,000 people and they think somehow the private sector will take this over. Tell me who in the private sector is going to deliver a letter for 45 cents to a small rural community 40 or 100 miles from the nearest sorting facility? That’s not going to happen. These people will be deprived of any meaningful service. There are other critical reforms that could be undertaken short of dismantling, killing the United States Postal Service. If these proposals go forward and this congress continues to fail to act, the Postmaster General gets to continue to put in place his vision of a future for the postal service, and the White House continues to be silent, we will no longer have a postal service in this country. “That would be an incredible blow to our economy, future and prestige of the United States of America. We will be the first developed nation on earth without a postal service just like we are without universal health care.” - 30 -
11.22.2011	November 21, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) issued the following statement after the failure of the so-called “supercommittee” to produce a $1.2 trillion reduction in projected deficits over the next ten years: “The so-called supercommittee failed miserably. They failed to find a modest 10% reduction in our projected deficits in the next ten years. It’s not a big surprise. I opposed the deal and predicted that they would fail. “The solutions are actually pretty simple. Stop with the tax cuts. We have had $5 trillion in tax cuts over the past ten years. First, we had the Bush Tax Cuts and last year President Obama extended the Bush Tax Cuts. They haven’t created jobs and they are incredibly expensive. They need to end. We can end the Obama Payroll Tax Holiday on December 31st, 2011 and the rest of the Bush Tax Cuts expire December 31st, 2012. “What’s the best way to end these tax cuts? By doing nothing. Congress is very good at doing nothing and by doing nothing, these expensive and ineffective tax cuts will expire and we will go back to theClintonera rates and save $5 trillion. “We need to take part of the new yearly revenue after they expire and invest to put people back to work. Over one-third of our deficits are due to high unemployment. We have to get Americans off unemployment and instead working again in the jobs that they want and need. “We have to negotiate overdue spending cuts. We are spending $100 billion a year inAfghanistan. We need to pull our troops out ofAfghanistanand let the Afghans deal with their inter and intra tribal conflicts. We need to stop paying big agribusiness $20 billion a year not to grow things. We need to stop subsidizing big oil and take a number of other smart steps to reduce our spending. “These things get us close to $6 or $7 trillion in reductions over the next ten years, five times what this failed supercommittee couldn’t produce.” To Access the Radio Actuality: 11.21.11 DeFazio Statement on Supercommittee Failure -30-
11.18.2011	November 18, 2011 Press Release | Contact: Jen Gilbreath (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) bucked his party leadership, voting for Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) that forces fiscal discipline upon Congress. DeFazio had been working with Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) for several months to boost support for the BBA. The bill failed in the House 261-165. The bill required a two-thirds majority to pass. DeFazio was one of only 25 Democrats to vote for the BBA. H.J.Res.2 was virtually identical to a BBA that passed the House of Representatives in 1995. Over 70 Democrats voted for the 1995 measure including two of the top three Democrats in current leadership. DeFazio issued the following statement after the vote: “On Wednesday of this week, the accumulated debt of the U.S. passed $15 trillion. That’s a massive sum of debt and a horrible legacy to leave our kids and grandkids. Sometime in the near future I expect our credit card will be denied. If we want to save Social Security and Medicare and if we want to make the necessary investments that will put people back to work, we must get our debt and deficit under control. “That’s why today I was a lead Democratic sponsor of a Balanced Budget Amendment in the United States House of Representatives. This BBA would have forced Congress, on both sides of the aisle, to sit down and meaningfully deal with the financial problems in this country. We need long term solutions that are balanced and include both revenue increases and smart spending cuts. “Sadly, the amendment failed. I won’t give up my efforts to rein in this reckless accumulation of debt in Washington, D.C.” To Access the Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=72aw08_y7m0&feature=channel_video_title To Access the Radio Actuality: 11.18.11 DeFazio Bucks Party, Supports Balanced Budget Amendment -30-
11.15.2011	November 15, 2011 “Oregon’s federally forested communities deserve a long-term plan that allows them to return to the tradition of self-reliance that embodies the best traditions of our state. "We have worked together over the last several months to build a balanced plan that brings jobs back into the federal forests through sustainable management, ensures the health of federal forests for future generations, and provides funding certainty for our rural schools, roads, and law enforcement agencies. "We have made significant progress to bridge our differences and anticipate unveiling soon a bipartisan plan that will win the support of a diverse coalition of groups who hold a keen interest in the health of our federal forests and the economic well-being of Oregon’s rural communities.”
11.15.2011	DATE: November 15, 2011 CONTACT: Kathryn Rexrode with Congressman Goodlatte, 202-225-3329 Jen Gilbreath with Congressman DeFazio, 202-225-6416 Washington, D.C. — Today Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Peter DeFazio (D-OR) announced significant support from both sides of the aisle for H.J.Res 2, a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, which will be considered by the full House of Representatives this week. Reps. Goodlatte and DeFazio were joined by Reps. Trent Franks (R-AZ), Mike McIntrye (D-NC), Mike Conaway (R-TX), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Jim Costa (D-CA), Allen West (R-FL), and Jason Altmire (D-PA) in releasing the following statement: “A few weeks ago, the total U.S. debt exceeded the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) for the first time since World War II. The average amount each citizen owes on the debt is now greater than his or her average salary. It is time for Congress to take action before this crisis spirals completely out of control. This week the House will consider a bipartisan balanced budget amendment. H.J.Res. 2 is the same legislation that passed the House with bipartisan support in 1995 and fell only one vote short in the Senate. It is the only balanced budget proposal to have the support of a majority of the Members of the House of Representatives. The amendment forces Congress to live within its means by ensuring that total federal spending does not exceed total revenues. A strong majority of Americans support a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. After all, they know what it means to live by a budget and they rightfully expect the federal government to do the same. They are asking Congress to work together to ensure that this amendment, which is so critical to the future of our country, becomes a reality. For the House of Representatives to pass this important legislation one thing is certain -- it must be bipartisan. We are committed to working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to build even more support for H.J.Res. 2. We know this legislation represents the best chance of ensuring that our children will face a much brighter fiscal picture.” A Constitutional amendment must pass with the support of two-thirds of both the House (290 votes) and the Senate (67 votes) before it goes to the states for ratification. Three quarters of the states must ratify the amendment before it becomes part of the U.S. Constitution. ###
11.09.2011	November 9, 2011 Contact:Harkin - Kate Cyrul:? 202-224-3254DeFazio - Jen Gilbreath: 202-731-0063 Lawmakers Write Deficit Reduction Committee on Revenue Benefits of Wall Street Tax? WASHINGTON, D.C. – Lawmakers supporting The Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax today encouraged the deficit reduction committee to adopt their proposal. In a letter to the panel, lawmakers led by Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR), outlined the revenue generating impact of their bill. Analysis conducted by the Joint Committee on Taxation found that the Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax Act introduced last week will raise $352 billion over the time period of January 2013 through 2021. The Joint Tax Committee also estimated that the Act raises $218.6 billion in the last 5 years, on average over $43 billion per year. "As you work to craft a comprehensive deficit reduction plan, we believe you should incorporate reasonable spending cuts and ask the wealthiest Americans and most profitable corporations to pay their fair share. However, we understand through media reports and talking to our colleagues that revenue options remain the largest challenge in your negotiations to obtain significant deficit reduction. We believe we have a viable revenue option that deserves serious consideration," wrote the lawmakers. "Given the extraordinary profitability of Wall Street banks while the rest of the economy is suffering, there is no question that Wall Street can easily bear this modest tax. In fact, while Wall Street lobbyists will express great concern with our proposal, they will not tell you that the European Union is considering a similar proposal, but with a tax rate that is more than three times higher." The Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax places a small tax of three basis points (3 pennies on $100 in value) on most non-consumer financial trading including stocks, bonds and other debts, except for their initial issuance. For example, if a company receives a loan from a financial company, that transaction would not be taxed. But, if the financial institution traded the debt, the trade would be subject to the tax. The tax would also cover all derivative contracts, options, forward contracts, swaps and other complex instruments at their actual cost. The measure excludes debt that has an original term of less than 100 days. The full text of the letter follows. A PDF version can be found here. November 8, 2011 The Honorable Patty MurrayCo-Chair, Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction448 Russell Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20510?The Honorable Jeb HensarlingCo-Chair, Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction129 Cannon House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairwoman Murray and Chairman Hensarling: As you work to craft a comprehensive deficit reduction plan, we believe you should incorporate reasonable spending cuts and ask the wealthiest Americans and most profitable corporations to pay their fair share. However, we understand through media reports and talking to our colleagues that revenue options remain the largest challenge in your negotiations to obtain significant deficit reduction. We believe we have a viable revenue option that deserves serious consideration. S. 1787 / H.R. 3313, the Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax Act, is forecasted by the Joint Committee on Taxation to raise $353 billion over ten years, and $218 billion in years 6-10. Given the very high volume of financial trading, this tax will ultimately raise over $40 billion a year, badly needed for government services and for reducing deficits. The legislation levies a small tax of three basis points (3 pennies on $100 in value) on most non-consumer financial trading, including stocks, bonds, and other debts, except for their initial issuance. For example, if a company receives a loan from a financial company, that transaction would not be taxed. But, if the financial institution traded the debt, the trade would be subject to the tax. The tax would also cover all derivative contracts, options, puts, forward contracts, swaps and other complex instruments at their actual cost. The measure excludes debt that has an original term of less than 100 days. The legislation does not harm long-term investing like retirement funds, but instead targets financial trading and complex transactions undertaken by financial and investment firms. Given the extraordinary profitability of Wall Street banks while the rest of the economy is suffering, there is no question that Wall Street can easily bear this modest tax. In fact, while Wall Street lobbyists will express great concern with our proposal, they will not tell you that the European Union is considering a similar proposal, but with a tax rate that is more than three times higher. Sincerely, Tom Harkin?? ??? ??? ??? ?Bernie Sanders?? ??? ?Sherrod BrownPeter DeFazioBruce Braley ?? ??? ?Earl Blumenauer?? ??? ??? ??? ?John Conyers?? ??? ??? ??? ?Bobby Scott?? ??? ?Hank JohnsonBetty SuttonBob FilnerLouise Slaughter ###
11.09.2011	MEMO To: Financial WritersFrom: Kate Cyrul for Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA); Jen Gilbreath for Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR)Re: Joint Tax Committee Finds Harkin, DeFazio Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax Generates More Than $350 BillionDate: Monday, November 07, 2011 Analysis sent today to the offices of Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) from the Joint Committee on Taxation finds that the Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax Act introduced last week by the lawmakers will raise $352 billion over the time period of January 2013 through 2021. The Joint Tax Committee also estimated that the Act raises $218.6 billion in the last 5 years, on average over $43 billion per year. “It is hard to argue with this substantial revenue – derived from a tax of $3.00 on $10,000 of Wall Street trading,” said Harkin. “Our country needs every dollar possible to invest in infrastructure, job creation, the education of our children and reducing the debt among other priorities. This commonsense tax provides a viable solution.” “This legislation will generate $350 billion in needed revenue for our cash strapped federal government by targeting speculators flipping stocks a thousand times a minute,” said DeFazio. “We need serious proposals to get our country back on sound fiscal footing. $350 billion in new revenue will reduce our deficit and enable federal investments in our future.” The Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax places a small tax of three basis points (3 pennies on $100 in value) on most non-consumer financial trading including stocks, bonds and other debts, except for their initial issuance. For example, if a company receives a loan from a financial company, that transaction would not be taxed. But, if the financial institution traded the debt, the trade would be subject to the tax. The tax would also cover all derivative contracts, options, forward contracts, swaps and other complex instruments at their actual cost. The measure excludes debt that has an original term of less than 100 days. By setting the tax rate very low, the measure is not likely to impact the decision to engage in productive economic activity. It would, however, reduce certain speculative activities like high-speed computer arbitrage trading. Given the very high volume of financial trading, it will raise considerable funds, badly needed for government services and for reducing deficits. The European Union is considering a similar proposal, but with a tax rate that is more than three times higher. Today, 30 foreign nations have in place a tax some financial transactions, including Great Britain and Switzerland. Various experts are available to comment on this proposal, including Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, John Fullerton, former Managing Director of JPMorgan, Capital Institute and Lisa Donner, Executive Director, Americans for Financial Reform. For more information, please contact Kate Cyrul at (202) 224-3254 or visit https://harkin.senate.gov/ or Jen Gilbreath at (541) 465-6732 or visit https://www.defazio.house.gov/.
11.03.2011	November 3, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced legislation to place a tax on certain trading activities undertaken by banking and financial firms. The measure does not harm long-term investing like retirement funds, but instead targets financial trading and complex transactions undertaken by financial and investment firms. Joining Harkin and DeFazio in cosponsoring the legislation were Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) along with Congressmen Bruce Braley, Hank Johnson, John Sarbanes, Bob Filner, Betty Sutton, Earl Blumenauer, Louise Slaughter, Mazie Hirono, Peter Welch, John Conyers, and Maurice Hinchey. “True deficit reduction in this country must come from a balance of spending cuts and necessary revenue increases,” said Senator Harkin. “This trading tax would help raise necessary funds to invest in our infrastructure and the education of our children, among other priorities, and would do so without hurting job creation. There is no question that Wall Street can easily bear this modest tax.” “The first step on the long path to recovery happens when we rein in the excessive speculative activity that has destabilized our financial system,” said Representative DeFazio. “This legislation will curb unnecessary speculation and generate needed revenue to help our cash-strapped federal government pay down debt and invest in the real economy to benefit all Americans.” The measure will place a small tax of three basis points (3 pennies on $100 in value) on most non-consumer financial trading including stocks, bonds and other debts, except for their initial issuance. For example, if a company receives a loan from a financial company, that transaction would not be taxed. But, if the financial institution traded the debt, the trade would be subject to the tax. The tax would also cover all derivative contracts, options, puts, forward contracts, swaps and other complex instruments at their actual cost. The measure excludes debt that has an original term of less than 100 days. By setting the tax rate very low, the measure is not likely to impact the decision to engage in productive economic activity. It would, however, reduce certain speculative activities like high-speed computer arbitrage trading. A transaction tax could help to shift Wall Street away from short-term trading. Given the very high volume of financial trading, it will raise considerable funds, badly needed for government services and for reducing deficits. The proposed tax would take effect on January 1, 2013. The European Union is considering a similar proposal, but with a tax rate that is more than three times higher. Today, 30 foreign nations have in place a similar tax, including Great Britain and Switzerland. Various experts are available to comment on this proposal, including Dean Baker, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, John Fullerton, former Managing Director of JPMorgan, Capital Institute and Lisa Donner, Executive Director, Americans for Financial Reform. -30-
10.25.2011	Letter comes in response to a report confirming Oregon forestry contractors improperly hired 254 foreign workers with stimulus funds WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) sent a letter to the Department of Labor, demanding they reform the H-2B visa program to ensure that taxpayer dollars intended to hire American workers are not used to hire foreign workers. A recent Office of Inspector General (IG) report found federal stimulus funds were awarded to contractors who underbid competition by using foreign laborers. DeFazio asked for the OIG review after the Bend Bulletin reported that several companies that were awarded Forest Service contracts, then filed H-2B applications to use foreign workers for the contracts rather than Oregon workers. “Over the past year it has come to light that several contractors exploited loopholes in the H-2B visa process to intentionally hire foreign workers, rather than available Americans, for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act-funded jobs on Forest Service lands in Oregon.” DeFazio wrote. “This is unacceptable. Taxpayer money was spent to hire foreign workers while unemployed Oregonians were denied these jobs. The Department of Labor owes it to the American taxpayer and the over 13 million unemployed Americans to make sure this can never occur again.” Fill text of the letter can be found below: Hilda L. Solis Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210 Secretary Solis, Over the past year it has come to light that several contractors exploited loopholes in the H-2B visa process to intentionally hire foreign workers, rather than available Americans, for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act-funded jobs on Forest Service lands in Oregon. This is unacceptable. Taxpayer money was spent to hire foreign workers while unemployed Oregonians were denied these jobs. The Department of Labor owes it to the American taxpayer and the over 13 million unemployed Americans to make sure this can never occur again. In September of 2010 I called for an Inspector General investigation to determine how it was possible that H-2B visas were awarded for these contracts when American workers were readily available. The Inspector General concluded that current H-2B recruitment and oversight requirements were not adequate and recommended several improvements. In light of the Inspector General’s findings, I request that the Department of Labor (DOL) take the following actions to ensure that American workers are given proper opportunity to fill any position before any H-2B visa is granted: Require that positions be meaningfully advertised in all states in which work will be done Require that State Workforce Agencies in all states in which work will be done are notified of open positions Require that positions be advertised reasonably near to the date of employment Correct inadequate DOL oversight of H-2B applicants and State Workforce Agencies Require that employers use identical and relevant employment requirements when recruiting U.S citizens and H-2B workers performing the same job Require that H-2B employees be paid the true prevailing wage for the work that they are employed to do Implementing the Department of Labor’s Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM), “Temporary Non-Agricultural Employment of H-2B Aliens in the United States,” and the Department of Labor’s Final Rule, “Wage Methodology for the Temporary Non-Agricultural Employment H-2B,” would be a significant step toward achieving these needed reforms identified by the Inspector General. Under current rules governing H-2B visas unscrupulous employers can, with relative ease, hire underpaid H-2B workers even when qualified American workers are readily available. In the case of the Oregon Forest Service contractors, the positions were not advertised in Oregon and were advertised up to four months in advance of the jobs’ commencement. While legal under current rules, these actions virtually guaranteed that qualified Oregonians would not be aware of the positions. Two U.S. citizens who applied for these positions reported that they were not hired because they did not speak a foreign language- a requirement that has no bearing on one’s ability to do forestry restoration work. The Department of Labor has a legal mandate to ensure that H-2B visas are only available to employers in the case that “unemployed persons capable of performing such service or labor cannot be found in this country.” 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)(h)(ii)(b). With national unemployment over 9 percent, and unemployment up to 15 percent in central Oregon, it is imperative that the DOL at a minimum adopt the proposed rules necessary to carry out this mandate. The current NPRM goes a long way toward addressing all of the recruitment loopholes that were exploited by contractors in Oregon. The ability to pay substandard wages to H-2B workers also incentivizes employers not to hire unemployed Americans. In 2008 the DOL under President Bush adopted a rule that allows for H-2B workers to be paid significantly less than the true prevailing wage in the industry that they are working in. This intentional wage depression by the Bush administration has made it impossible for American workers to compete with grossly underpaid foreign H-2B workers. As long as this is the case, employers will continue to choose an underpaid H-2B worker over a qualified American. The implementation of DOL’s final rule on wage methodology would finally overturn this Bush administration rule, and return H-2B wages to the true prevailing wage in any given industry. DOL, however, needs to correct a loophole in the NPRM which exempts forestry employers from paying the highest prevailing wage when work is conducted in multiple states. This means that multi-state H-2B forestry crews can be paid the lowest prevailing wage among the states in which they are working. If this carve-out becomes part of a final rule, forestry contractors using H-2B workers will continue to undercut forestry companies who employ American workers. The H-2B program should be there for employers who truly do have a short term need that truly cannot be filled by a US citizen. It cannot continue to serve as a means for some employers to displace American workers with underpaid foreign labor. Undercutting our workforce in this manner has denied untold numbers of unemployed Americans the opportunity to get back to work, and will continue to do so until the H-2B program is fixed. I am pleased that the DOL has drafted rules that would help ensure that American jobs are no longer put at risk by the H-2B program. I hope to see the prompt implementation of these much needed reforms; and hope to see that fair prevailing wages for forestry workers are required. The 13 million unemployed Americans deserve no less. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress - 30 -
10.19.2011	October 19, 2011 Inspector General confirms Oregon forestry contractors improperly hired 254 foreign workers with stimulus funds; DeFazio demands Dept. of Labor address failings WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) released an Office of Inspector General (IG) report that found federal stimulus funds were awarded to contractors who underbid competition by using foreign laborers. DeFazio asked for the OIG review after the Bend Bulletin reported that several companies that were awarded Forest Service contracts, then filed H-2B applications to use foreign workers for the contracts rather than Oregon workers. “The goal of the stimulus bill was to put Americans back to work, not foreign nationals. It is obscene that U.S. companies were rewarded for abusing our American workers and immigration laws to undercut competition and squeeze more profits out of contracts,” said DeFazio. “Oregonians have been logging for over a century, our workforce is one of the best in the world, and these contracts should have been awarded to companies that hire Oregon loggers. This report confirms that federal and state agencies failed to properly oversee the contracts and the companies investigated exploited federal loopholes to avoid hiring American workers. The Department of Labor must address the failings identified in the IG’s report.” The full report can be read here: https://www.oig.dol.gov/cgi-bin/oa_rpts.cgi?s=&y=fy92012&a=all Background: In 2010, the Bend Bulletin ran a series of articles highlighting possible H-2B Visa irregularities related to Forest Service contacts in central Oregon funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The H-2B non-agricultural temporary worker program allows U.S. employers to bring foreign nationals to the United States to fill temporary nonagricultural jobs. Federal regulations require that employers who file H-2B petitions must include a certification from the Department of Labor (DOL) stating that qualified workers are not available in the U.S. and that the foreign worker’s employment will not adversely affect wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers. DeFazio asked the DOL Inspector General (IG) to review DOL’s certification of these the H-2B applications in question for any improprieties. Issues of concern included: --How it was possible that federal contractors paying prevailing wages in rural Oregon - which has suffered from long-term double digit unemployment - cannot find Oregonians to take these forestry jobs? --Given the ease that the Bend Bulletin found Oregonians ready to work in the woods, is the H-2B Visa program being used to undercut the competition? Findings: -According to U.S. Forest Service, the four employers reviewed were awarded 14 Recovery Act contracts totaling $7,140,782 for forestry work in Oregon. The employers hired 254 foreign workers for jobs in Oregon through the H2B program. Forestry Contractor Failures - Only two Oregonians were listed on the employer recruitment reports, indicating that workers in Oregon were likely unaware these job opportunities were available. -The OIG found that although 146 U.S. workers were contacted by the four employers regarding possible employment and 29 received job offers, none were hired. Instead, 254 foreign workers were brought into Oregon for these jobs. -According to interviews with workers, the OIG found that the employers used discouraging language such as references to age and the ability to speak additional languages in their recruiting process. Neither reference was a job requirement of H-2B applications -The OIG found that the employers used a loophole in the H2B process that allowed them to avoid hiring U.S. workers by submitting their H2B applications to other states. U.S. workers were deliberately dissuaded from taking these jobs because they were short term and far from home. Dept of Labor Failures -The OIG audit identified that current H2B regulations permit a four month gap between U.S. worker recruitment/job offer and the job start date. Unsurprisingly, U.S. workers are unlikely to wait four month to start a temporary job, either by rejecting the job offer or finding another job that starts sooner. Employers take advantage of this to claim they cannot hire U.S. workers. DOL has proposed to reduce this to three months and require employers to continue to accept U.S. worker applications up until the job start date. -DOL regulations required employers to post a job order and newspaper advertisement in the state of initial employment only, regardless of where subsequent work would be performed. Six of nine H-2B applications OIG reviewed included work in Oregon, but because the work began in other states all the job ads for work in Oregon were posted in other states. State Workforce Agency Failures -The OIG found certain State Workforce Agencies (SWA) did not fulfill their responsibilities, and DOL could improve its oversight and monitoring to better protect the interests of U.S. workers under the regulations. -OIG found that the five SWAs reviewed did not transmit posted job orders to Oregon or other states where work was occurring, and three SWAs were not making job referrals to employers — both H-2B requirements. - 30 -
10.13.2011	October 12, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today responded to the passage of three job-killing trade agreements with South Korea, Panama, and Colombia: “Unfortunately today the House of Representatives voted for three more free trade agreements that will lead to the further erosion of our already degraded manufacturing base. In the case of South Korea, Korean auto parts manufacturers are guaranteed easier access to American markets and in exchange the U.S. may be able to export more beef. Even the cheerleaders at the United States International Trade Commission admit that this agreement will increase our trade deficit which means we will lose more jobs. “The Panama agreement is horrible. It gives the Western Hemisphere’s leader in sheltering drug runners and money laundering corporations better and freer access to the U.S. economy. Panama is a country with the population of Oregon and home to over 400,000 corporations seeking to avoid U.S. taxes and laws. Under this agreement, they will enjoy greater access to U.S. markets. This will not bode well for the future. “And finally the Colombian agreement. The Colombian government murders labor activists seeking better working conditions as a national policy. They promise they won’t do it anymore and in exchange average Colombians, who earn $9,000 per capita, will put all of their earnings toward buying U.S. goods. Yet one more bait and switch. Colombia will become yet another base for U.S. manufacturers to access cheap, exploited labor to export goods back to American markets. “We need a new trade policy for this country. We cannot continue to hemorrhage our manufacturing jobs and industrial base to countries that don’t compete fairly. These three agreements were written by the Bush administration and are unfortunately endorsed by the Obama administration and they will be a disaster for this country.” BACKGROUND The Economic Policy Institute estimates that these three trade agreements will cost the U.S. over 200,000 jobs and increase our trade deficit by at least $20 billion South Korea FTA · The Economic Policy Institute (EPI) estimates the U.S. will lose 159,000 manufacturing jobs in the first seven years if it is passed. · EPI estimates that our trade deficit with South Korea will grow from $10 billion to nearly $17 billion in the first seven years. · U.S. goods would face a 20% price disadvantage on the Korean market due to Value Added Tax. · Korea is not playing by the rules, manipulating its currency which disadvantages U.S. imports and deepens the trade imbalance. Colombia FTA · EPI estimates the U.S. will lose 55,000 manufacturing jobs in the first seven years if it is passed. · EPI estimates that our trade deficit with Colombia will grow to $2.9 billion in the first seven years. · According to Escuela Nacional Sindical, 2,857 Colombian workers’ rights activists have been murdered in the past 25 years after spearheading efforts to improve unhealthy work conditions. No worker protections are included in the FTA. Panama FTA · Panama is a well-known tax haven for multi-national corporations evading taxes and laundering money. · Does not address Panama’s narcotrafficking-money laundering protection. The Dept. of Justice says Mexican and Colombia drug cartels funnel money through Panama. As a result of so-called “free” trade agreements, 54,000 U.S. manufacturers have boarded up or moved overseas over the last ten years. As those factories have disappeared, so have over 5 million family wage manufacturing jobs including 53,000 in Oregon according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 1998, the Congress authorized the Trade Deficit Review Commission in the wake of a $166 billion trade deficit. It was a watered down version of one designed in the End the Trade Deficit Act introduced by Rep. DeFazio and Senator Dorgan. Unfortunately, the Commission was deadlocked along partisan lines and no recommendations were ever enacted. - 30 -
10.05.2011	October 5, 2011 Announce Agreement on a Multi-year Renewal that Could Mean More than $400 million for Oregon Counties Washington, D.C. – All six members of the Oregon Congressional delegation – U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, U.S. Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader and Greg Walden – and Governor John Kitzhaber expressed unified support today for a county payments agreement they called “essential to ensuring a lifeline for Oregon’s rural communities.” For months, Oregon’s Congressional delegation has been working with Senate Energy Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman on a way to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act – commonly known as the county payments law -- and put rural communities back to work in the woods. Today, they announced that an agreement has been reached and that next week Chairman Bingaman will be introducing bipartisan legislation to extend the program for an additional five years at a level of funding necessary to support essential county services. The governor and members of the Oregon delegation issued the following joint statement on the agreed upon legislation: “In the current budget environment, renewing even essential programs is an uphill battle. But without the financial certainty offered by the county payments program, there is no future for Oregon’s rural counties. “The bipartisan legislation that Chairman Bingaman will introduce next week proposes to give Oregon communities the level of assistance they need to maintain critical county services – like schools, sheriffs and search and rescue efforts – while we work for longer-term solutions on the O&C lands and other federal forests. The process has already begun in the U.S. House of Representatives. “While passage of this legislation is not guaranteed, gaining Chairman Bingaman’s support is an important step in our effort to get the job done. Part of that effort includes educating our colleagues in Congress on the unique challenges facing a state where the federal government owns more than 50 percent of the land -- as well as the historic commitment the federal government made to those communities. “Our unified effort underscores how essential it is for Congress and the administration to honor that commitment and Oregonians can count on us to continue to work together to get the job done.” The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act of 2000, originally authored by Wyden and U.S. Senator Larry Craig (R-Idaho) in 1999, established a six-year payment formula for counties that receive revenue-sharing payments from the United States Forest Service (USFS) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands. Based in part on historic timber receipts, the formula established a stable source of revenue to be used for education, roads and various other county services in rural areas. Over 700 counties in 41 states have received funding under the original county payments law, which was allowed to expire in September 2006. The law was extended in 2008 after a protracted effort by the Oregon delegation to renew the program, but that extension ended last Friday and Oregon counties are slated to receive their last checks early next year. Without renewed funding, counties will have to consider drastic budget cuts that have in the past included: four-day school weeks, releasing prisoners from county jails and laying off county sheriffs.
10.03.2011	October 3, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) was honored on Oct. 1 for his work in restoring the tidal marsh at the Bandon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge, in Bandon,Ore. The congressman was presented with a plaque announcing that the overlook at the tidal marsh has been named in his honor. The plaque reads,”Rep. Peter DeFazio Marsh Overlook, in recognition of his support and commitment to the National Wildlife Refuge System. October 1, 2011.” Background In 1983, Congress established the Bandon Marsh as a national wildlife refuge to protect the largest remaining tidal salt marsh in the Coquille River Estuary. In 1999, DeFazio led the effort to pass the refuge expansion to include the Ni-les’tun Unit. This area includes an intertidal marsh, a freshwater marsh, and riparian areas for migratory birds and salmon, steelhead, and cutthroat trout. DeFazio also helped secure $765,000 in land acquisition funds from Land and Water Conservation Fund and $4.2 million in SAFETEA-LU High Priority project for North Bank Lane improvements, a critical component of the restoration. Tidal channels were excavated and 11 miles of agricultural ditches were disked and filled. Two miles of river levees and 3 tidegates were removed, allowing tides to flow freely across the historic marsh for the first time in 100 years. Roy Lowe, project leader from the Oregon Coast National Wildlife Refuge Complex, presented the congressman with a replica of a plaque that will be affixed to the overlook. Others speaking at the dedication were Ed Shepard, state director, Oregon and Washington Bureau of Land Management; Ken Bierly, deputy director of the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board; Clara Conner, division engineer, Federal Highway Administration; Tom Dwyer, director of Conservation Programs, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; and Rowan Gould, deputy director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. - 30 -
09.20.2011	September 20, 2011 Demands FMCSA address serious safety and inspection concerns identified in Inspector General report WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) sent a letter to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), demanding they address serious concerns about the safety of Mexican trucks on U.S. roads. The letter comes in response to a report published by the Inspector General (IG) on the cross border trucking “pilot” program. The IG’s report showed that FMCSA was not yet prepared to launch a pilot program with the strict level of scrutiny and monitoring of safety performance mandated by Congress. The agency has yet to transmit a report to Congress outlining the steps taken to address the shortfalls. The letter DeFazio sent is below: September 16, 2011 The Honorable Anne S. Ferro Administrator Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Administrator Ferro: I am writing to express my concern over the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s (FMCSA) recent actions to move one step closer to allowing Mexican trucking companies to operate long-haul in the United States, in advance of fulfilling a statutory mandate to correct deficiencies in its proposed program and to report to Congress. In 2007, in response to the previous Administration’s attempt to rush into an ill-advised trucking pilot program, Congress required the Office of Inspector General (IG) to audit FMCSA’s readiness to enforce compliance with U.S. safety rules and regulations before the agency could initiate any future pilot program (Section 6901, P.L. 110-28). The law requires FMCSA to take action to address any issues raised by the IG, and to report to Congress on the measures taken. The IG completed its audit on August 19 and made the results available to the public on September 6, 2011. The report identified a number of areas that FMCSA must address. Specifically, the IG found that FMCSA did not yet have plans in place to: conduct on-site safety reviews in Mexico for at least half of participating carriers, as required by law; ensure that pilot program drivers and trucks are identified and inspected at each unique border crossing; verify driver and truck eligibility for the pilot program; acquire electronic monitoring devices for use in the pilot program; and train inspection and enforcement personnel at the border and within the United States. To date, FMSCA has not sent a report to Congress or otherwise communicated plans to address the issues identified by the IG. Yet the agency is moving full speed ahead. On the same day the audit was made public, FMCSA published in the FMCSA Register the application of the first Mexican carrier to successfully complete a pre-authorization safety audit. This week, FMCSA published the name of another carrier. According to FMCSA’s regulations, listing a carrier in the FMCSA register is a “preliminary grant of operating authority” (49 CFR 365.507). I fail to see how the agency is authorized to grant authority prior to meeting all statutory requirements. This further reinforces my longstanding concern that the Administration is not launching a pilot program, but rather starting the full liberalization of cross-border trucking that will have significant impacts on safety, security, and American jobs. Proceeding with the processing of Mexican carriers’ applications on a separate track from meeting any requirements the agency believes apply to the pilot program confirms that FMCSA intends for this pilot program to casually terminate and morph into an open border. This flies in the face of the limitation enacted by Congress. I know you hold FMCSA’s mission to protect the safety of the traveling public in the highest regard. I hope you will agree that addressing the deficiencies identified by the Inspector General in a meaningful way is the only prudent course before Mexican trucks can be permitted to operate long-haul in the U.S. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio - 30 -
09.19.2011	September 19, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today praised President Obama’s proposal that would eliminate loopholes for millionaires and billionaires, bring fairness to the tax system, and lower the deficit. DeFazio issued the following statement in response: “It’s outrageous that billionaire speculators who run Wall Street hedge funds pay no taxes to Social Security and pay a top tax rate of almost half the rate of an Army captain or small business owner who makes $50,000. Asking millionaires and billionaires to pay a fair share of taxes on their very substantial income will help our country’s incredible deficit crisis and preserve vital programs like Social Security and Medicare. I congratulate the president on this proposal and fully support his efforts to bring fairness to our tax system.” To access the radio actuality: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “9.19.11 DeFazio Praises Obama Plan to Bring Fairness To Tax System” from the menu to save the file on your computer. 3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. --30--
09.09.2011	September 9, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today responded to President Obama's American Jobs Act to the joint session of Congress. Following are DeFazio's remarks: “We needed a bold vision and a new direction, unfortunately the President’s proposal is an eerie echo of his first stimulus bill which I opposed. The first stimulus failed because it was more than 40% tax cuts and less than 7% in critical infrastructure investment with the balance spread across assistance to states and a mishmash of federal programs. Public investment overall accounted for only 22% of spending in the stimulus, but generated 42% of the jobs. “This bill has the same misplaced priorities and the same scattershot approach. More than 50% of the spending will be for tax cuts and less than 12% will be investment in infrastructure to put people back to work and make our nation more competitive. “The President’s speech tonight does include the prospect for some short-term jobs. However, it’s not a long-term vision for getting the economy back on track, putting people to work, making us more productive, and benefitting future generations. “More than half the cost of the bill is to pay for yet more tax cuts that haven’t worked. These tax cuts haven’t created jobs and they are too expensive. And while working families could use an extra $20 a week, it will not help the 20 million unemployed who are not getting a paycheck. “We need real investment. We need a massive investment program in the future of this country to make us more competitive in the world economy. And this bill falls short in the same way the stimulus did.” - 30 -
08.22.2011	By Daniel Simmons-Ritchie, The World The World | Posted: Thursday, August 18, 2011 11:00 am | (4) Comments Coos and other South Coast counties could make-up for millions in lost federal money under a plan unveiled by U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio on Wednesday. The 4th District Democrat fielded questions in North Bend's City Hall on the county's most pressing problems as part of a tour of the South Coast during Congress' summer recess. DeFazio tackled one of Coos County's gravest fiscal threats head-on -- the end of millions O&C funds from the government this year. The O&C payments have compensated the counties for decades for large tracts of land that were taken by the government in the early 1900s. DeFazio told The World in a sit-down interview, and later to the crowd of a 100 in North Bend, that he hoped to have legislation by the end of the year that would transfer the O & C land to trusts that would manage it for conservation and timber revenue. One of the trusts would manage the lands to protect the forests, pleasing environmental groups. The other trust would lease the land to a private investor in exchange for a large upfront payment. That payment would be invested and the annual interest would go to Oregon counties -- paying the same to the counties as the government previously funded. DeFazio would ask Congress for one more year of O & C funding while the trusts are set up and Congress would be paid back from part of the investor's upfront payment. He said there were challenges to the plan -- 'it's never been done before so it's not going to be easy" -- but it could mean stable income for Coos and other counties. Speaking with The World and in the North Bend meeting, DeFazio also weighed in on other issues facing the South Coast and the U.S. • DeFazio touted infrastructure development as his prime progress on curbing the region's high unemployment and economic stagnation. He was met with claps and cheers when he reminded the crowd in North Bend City Hall that the railway between Eugene and the North Spit would be reopened this year. He also said a new instrument landing system was on its way for Southwest Oregon Regional Airport and he was working to get funding for Oregon International Port of Coos Bay dredging. • DeFazio said the idea of removing dams in the Columbia River basin was 'an incredibly stupid idea being pushed by a few people." DeFazio was responding to questions posed by The World about U.S. District Court Judge James Redden's ruling that the government needed a new plan to protect salmon around federal dams. He said some calls to remove dams would cause 10 years of harm to the fish because of disruption to rivers. It also would be impossible to replace the 210 megawatts of energy with another sustainable source, like wind, that quickly. 'Do you want natural gas or nuclear?" • While DeFazio lashed out at George W. Bush over tax cuts and two wars that inflated the federal deficit, he also criticized Obama for extending those cuts and signing a law for a Social Security tax holiday. He said America's economic predicament was partly a result of the erroneous belief that continuously cutting taxes created jobs. While that may have made sense in the early 1900s when America manufactured things, he said, consumers now spent that money on Chinese-made goods. He reminded attendees that he voted against the new deficit-ceiling bill because its unspecified spending cuts didn't address the country's long-term need for new revenue. • DeFazio disagreed with the war in Libya and said those, and America's military presence around the world, needed to be reigned in because it was financially unsustainable. He said the U.S. could spend a hundred years trying to rebuild Afghanistan and discover the country still devolves into tribal conflicts. He agreed with a person who criticized America's need for tens of thousands of troops in Germany. 'A presence to defend who? The French?" he said to laughs. • Responding to attendees frustration over a lack of integrity among the country's leaders, DeFazio offered his own frustration with the limitless amount of private, and often unaccountable, money being spent on elections. He agreed with a cap on election spending as one measure of much-needed congressional reform. Reporter Daniel Simmons-Ritchie can be reached at 541-269-1222, ext. 249, or at dritchie@theworldlink.com Read more: https://theworldlink.com/news/local/article_e239ea87-b60a-5447-9f19-63b5ce8ec8eb.html#ixzz1VnCcEtbl
08.15.2011	U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be traveling the district to hold town hall meetings. DeFazio will discuss the federal budget, jobs and transportation legislation, the recent debt ceiling debate and partial FAA shutdown, county payments, and forestry pilot projects in rural Oregon. The meetings also give constituents an opportunity to share their opinions and have the congressman answer questions about federal issues. Tuesday, August 16th: 10:00–11:00 AM Elkton Town Hall Meeting Masonic Lodge Hall 247 1st St Elkton 1:30 – 2:30 PM Bandon Town Hall Meeting Bandon Public Library 1204 11th St SW Bandon 3:30 – 4:30 PM Port Orford Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 555 W 20th St Port Orford Wednesday, August 17th: 9:00–10:00 AM Brookings Town Hall Meeting Chetco Activity Center 550 Chetco Ave Brookings 12:00 – 1:00 PM Gold Beach Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 29592 Ellensburg Ave Gold Beach 5:15 – 6:15 PM North Bend Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 835 California St North Bend Thursday, August 18th: 5:15-6:15 PM Eugene Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 777 Pearl St Eugene 7:00 – 8:00 PM Springfield Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 225 5th St Springfield Monday, August 22nd: 10:00–11:00 AM Cottage Grove Hall Meeting Cottage Grove Community Center 700 E Gibbs Ave Cottage Grove 5:15 – 6:15 PM Grants Pass Town Hall Meeting Anne Basker Auditorium 604 NW 6th St Grants Pass Tuesday, August 23rd: 10:00–11:00 AM Cave Junction Town Hall Meeting Josephine County Building 102 S Redwood Highway Cave Junction 5:15 – 6:15 PM Roseburg Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 900 SE Douglas Ave Roseburg Thursday, August 25th: 1:30-2:30 PM Albany Town Hall Meeting City Council Chambers 333 Broadalbin St Albany 5:30 – 6:30 PM Corvallis Town Hall Meeting Main Room, Corvallis Public Library 645 NW Monroe Corvallis
08.02.2011	August 2, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted against of S 365, the Budget Control Act. The bill passed 269-161. DeFazio issued the following statement after the vote: “Today I voted against the so-called debt ceiling ‘deal’. There is no balance in this bill. This deal make deep domestic cuts, shifts an additional $80 billion to the Pentagon, and it fails to end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Despite cutting $2.1 trillion over the next 10 years, it is incredibly vague. It has only one specified cut, graduate student financial aid. “There is no shared sacrifice in this bill and the ‘Super Committee’ created by this bill will not propose meaningful revenue increases. It doesn’t close tax loopholes, doesn’t ask millionaires and billionaires to go back to Clinton era tax rates, and it does nothing to address our greatest challenge, the jobs deficit. It threatens job-creating investment in our crumbling transportation infrastructure, which is a proven job-creator and would improve on long-term economic viability. “I voted to end the debt ceiling crisis on Saturday. The Reid bill would have reduced the nation’s debt by $2.4 trillion. It would have guaranteed those cuts wouldn’t affect people on Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid benefits. “I will continue to push to close tax loopholes and end deficit exploding tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires to get more savings. We need to pass a fair balanced budget amendment that would force the people in Washington, D.C. to have an adult conversation and make tough choices instead of this unproductive partisan bickering that does not serve anyone well. “I believe a balanced budget amendment (BBA) to the Constitution is an essential enforcement tool since neither side has produced a balanced budget in the past decade. “But the unbelievable partisan bickering must stop. I will continue fighting for sensible policies to address the country’s unsustainable budget deficits and to avoid the first ever default in our history. We need to get back on a bipartisan fiscal course.” - 30 –
07.22.2011	Amendment would eliminate conflict of interest for federal regulators July 22, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) successfully amended Republican bill H.R. 1315 to protect the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) from gratuitous Wall Street influence. DeFazio’s amendment requires regulators sitting on the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) to sit out of any vote to overturn a CFPB regulation that would impact their former employers. The House passed the amendment unanimously. “The revolving door between Washington and Wall Street has been described by the Washington Post as ‘spinning at a dizzying pace’,” DeFazio said. “It is no surprise that the New York Times dubbed Goldman Sachs ‘Government Sachs’ for all of the employees who bounce back and forth between the Capitol and its Manhattan office tower. My amendment simply eliminates potential conflict of interest for voting members of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) who have spun through that revolving door.” Background The CFPB was created by the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was passed in 2010 as a response to the 2008 Wall Street created financial disaster. This reform demanded accountability from the big banks and financial titans on Wall Street and put in place rules to prevent the growth and collapse of another massive speculative financial bubble. The CFPB is a watchdog agency that ensures basic fairness in the financial marketplace. It protects consumers from deceptive lending practices, misleading financial products, and other devious practices used by big banks to deceive American consumers. The FSOC monitors and address system-wide risks to the American economy. The FSOC also oversees the CFPB. Under H.R. 1315, a majority vote among the ten voting members of the FSOC can overturn a CFPB regulation. Without DeFazio’s amendment, FSOC members who come straight from Wall Street could pull the teeth from meaningful efforts to rein in Wall Street. DeFazio’s amendment demands that if a regulation would affect a former employer of a FSOC member, then that member must sit out that vote. This applies to any employer in the previous two years. Several former Wall Street employees or bank officials would have been voting members of the FSOC if it had existed in their day. They include the following people: Hank Paulson, Treasury Secretary, former CEO of Goldman Sachs Nicholas Brady, Treasury Secretary, former investment banker Donald Regan, Treasury Secretary, former Chairman and CEO of Meryl Lynch William Donaldson, SEC Chairman, former investment banker Donald Powell, FDIC Chairman, former President and CEO of First National Bank of Amarillo Donna Tanoue, FDIC Chairman, former Vice Chairman of the Bank of Hawaii The DeFazio amendment will help to ensure that our financial regulators are going to bat for the American people, not their former employers. - 30 -
07.20.2011	Legislation will devastate Medicare and Social Security while tax loopholes and subsidies remain unscathed July 20, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted against another attempt by the Republican majority to pass a budget that will jeopardize the future of Social Security and Medicare while protecting special interest tax loopholes and subsidies. This bill will also make severe cuts to programs like student financial aid, Medicaid, and school lunch programs. In addition, it promotes a radical Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) that mandates a supermajority to close or overturn tax loopholes and subsidies. DeFazio voted for a bi-partisan BBA in 1995. That bill passed the House, but came up one vote short in the Senate. This bill proposes a future vote on an extreme version of a BBA which is unlikely to pass the House and would fall far short Senate. “There is no balanced budget amendment in this legislation. There is a big dollop of blackmail. This legislation says that the Republican leadership will drive the country to the brink of default unless Congress later passes their extreme version of a balanced budget amendment that requires an impossible two-thirds majority to close the most abusive tax loopholes,” DeFazio said. “I was one of 72 Democrats to vote for a clean and honest balanced budget amendment (BBA) to the Constitution in 1995. That effort passed the House but failed by two votes in the Senate. I believe we could pass that BBA again today, but Republican leadership is insisting on a radical bill that is doomed to fail.” Today’s bill mandates arbitrary spending caps that will not allow for Social Security and Medicare beneficiary payments in the future. Their bill would also protect abusive tax loopholes by requiring a supermajority to close them. “The political theatrics need to stop. The current deficit spending is not sustainable and neither party in control has produced a balanced budget in a decade. We must do better. An honest BBA would have been a good start, but again we were given another plan that tries to balance the budget on the backs of seniors by slashing Medicare and Social Security to give tax breaks to multi-national corporations and those making over $200,000. We need serious legislation that will force fiscal discipline,” DeFazio said. DeFazio introduced his own balanced budget amendment legislation earlier this year. His BBA requires any significant military action that is not a congressionally declared war be paid for with spending cuts or new revenues rather than declared emergency spending. In addition, DeFazio is a cosponsor of a bi-partisan balanced budget amendment offered by Rep. Goodlatte (R-VA) that mirrors the clean 1995 BBA that passed the House. - 30 –
07.20.2011	Members ask why the soldiers are being punished for mistakes outside their control, request Inspector General to investigate violated contracts both in Oregon and nationwide July 20, 2011 Washington, D.C. – The Oregon congressional delegation today asked the Inspector General of the National Guard Bureau to investigate the Guard’s refusal to honor bonus contracts signed by members of the Oregon National Guard. Six members of the Oregon National Guard have contacted Oregon’s congressional offices seeking help after the Guard failed to honor the second half of bonus contracts. The letter from the delegation to the Inspector General cites the example of PFC Chelsea Wells, a Milton-Freewater native, who enlisted in Dec. 2007 and signed a contract for a $20,000 bonus. The first half of the bonus was paid on time following her initial training. However, when she was due to receive the second half of her bonus in Dec. 2010, the Guard refused to pay, claiming that she was never qualified in the first place. Worse yet, the Guard said it intends to seek recoupment of the first half of the bonus. “As a country, we ask these brave men and women to serve their country and promise to compensate them for their service,” the members of Oregon’s Congressional delegation wrote to Inspector General H. Cronin Byrd. “These soldiers should not be punished due to a potential clerical error by the Guard. They deserve better than a bait and switch from Uncle Sam.” “We request that you swiftly investigate the violation of these contracts by the Guard to resolve why these soldiers will be unfairly punished for mistakes outside of their control,” they wrote. “Furthermore, we understand that the problem is not isolated to soldiers in Oregon, and we fear that many soldiers that have been denied some or all of their bonuses have not come forward to tell their stories. How many soldiers, both in Oregon and nationwide, have been denied bonuses in a similar fashion to PFC Wells?” Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and U.S. Reps. Greg Walden, Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader, and David Wu signed the letter. The full text of the letter is below. Mr. H. Cronin ByrdInspector General, National Guard BureauArlington Hall Station111 S George Mason DriveBldg 2, 3rd Floor-TI342Arlington, VA 22204Dear Mr. Byrd: We write today to request an investigation into the National Guard reneging on the bonus annex of the enlistment contracts of Oregon National Guard soldiers. Six members of the Oregon National Guard have contacted our offices to inform us that the National Guard has refused to honor the second half of bonus contracts they signed in late 2007. For example, PFC Chelsea Wells, a native of Milton-Freewater, enlisted as a 35F (intelligence analyst) in December 2007. She signed an annex to her enlistment document (DD Form 4) that stipulated she would receive a $20,000 bonus for enlisting in a critical Military Occupation Specialty (MOS). The agreement, signed by the enlisting official at her processing station, also stipulated that she would receive the first half of the bonus upon completion of her initial training, and the second half of the bonus upon completion of 36 months of enlistment. PFC Wells indeed received the first half of her bonus — $10,000 — upon completion of her initial training. However, when the 36-month anniversary of her enlistment arrived, she was denied the second half of her bonus. Following an official congressional inquiry, the National Guard Bureau Office of Legislative Liaison stated that the payments have been denied because her MOS was not on the critical skills list on the date of enlistment. However, the annex offered to and signed by PFC Wells very specifically stated that her MOS, 35F, was indeed a “Critical Skill MOS.” What’s even more disturbing is that the National Guard says it intends to recoup the first half of PFC Wells’ bonus — $10,000. The stories of at least five more Oregon National Guard soldiers, all who enlisted during the latter months of 2007, are all similar. However, the soldiers enlisted in various MOS specialties, and were not all processed through the same facility. As a country, we ask these brave men and women to serve their country and promise to compensate them for their service. These soldiers should not be punished due a potential clerical error by the Guard. They deserve better than a bait and switch from Uncle Sam. We request that you swiftly investigate the violation of these contracts by the Guard to resolve why these soldiers will be unfairly punished for mistakes outside of their control. Furthermore, we understand that the problem is not isolated to soldiers in Oregon, and we fear that many soldiers that have been denied some or all of their bonuses have not come forward to tell their stories. How many soldiers, both in Oregon and nationwide, have been denied bonuses in a similar fashion to PFC Wells? We have attached PFC Wells’ bonus annex and the response from the National Guard Bureau for your review. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your reply. Sincerely, /s ###
07.17.2011	July 17, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) announced that three high ranking members of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will visit Roseburg, Oregon on Monday, June 20 and listen to local veterans concerned about the future of the Roseburg VA Medical Center (RVAMC). In addition to meeting with local veterans, Chief of Staff John Gingrich, Assistant Secretary Joan Mooney, and Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Operations and Management William Schoenhard will also tour VA facilities and meet with Mercy CEO Kelly Morgan. In April, DeFazio, Wyden, and Merkley requested that Secretary Eric Shinseki visit the RVAMC before the VA makes any decisions to cut medical services there. This visit is happening as a result of the members’ request. “For months, we have expressed our concerns about the future of the Roseburg VA. We questioned the process used by Booz Allen Hamilton to make their recommendations and we presented creative solutions for collaboration in hopes of continuing full service in Roseburg. I am pleased that the VA is sending out senior officials to see firsthand how vital this medical center is to the health and well being of veterans in southwestern Oregon. The veterans need a full service hospital in this community. They have earned it. I am optimistic that will come across on Monday,” said DeFazio “When I was last in Roseburg meeting with our veterans, we developed the idea of asking senior Veterans Administration officials to come out to Oregon and visit the Roseburg campus before making a final decision on hospital service levels,” said Senator Merkley. “I’m pleased that the administration has heard our Congressional delegation call for senior officials to visit the beautiful campus in Roseburg. I am hopeful that they will come away from their visit with a deeper understanding of the importance of the hospital to our veterans and the need for additional resources -- not a reduction in hospital services for Southern Oregon veterans.” “It is an encouraging sign that VA officials are coming to see for themselves the great work being done at the Roseburg VA Medical Center and how essential the facility is to veterans all around southern Oregon,” Wyden said. “With the VA considering a reduction of services at the Roseburg VAMC at the same time that thousands of veterans have returned to Oregon from Afghanistan, it is more important now than ever that they take the time to meet with the men and women who rely on the facility and see the impact those decisions may have on Oregon’s veterans.” In previous letters to Secretary Shinseki, DeFazio, Wyden, and Merkley expressed their concerns about the failures of an independent review to comprehensively assess the current and historical levels of care at the RVAMC and the lack of consultation with local veterans who depend on the medical services available there. -- 30 --
07.08.2011	Amendment would audit Pentagon spending and provide budgetary transparency July 8, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) offered a bipartisan amendment to force the Pentagon to produce auditable financial statements providing a clearer picture of how it spends tens of billions of taxpayer dollars each year. The House passed the amendment unanimously. Currently, federal law exempts the Pentagon from conducting an audit. DeFazio’s amendment would reverse this exemption. “The Pentagon has spent more than $10 trillion since 1990 and will spend over $4 trillion over the next four years without ever passing an audit,” said DeFazio. “As Congress debates substantial cuts to programs that help middle class families, we need a clear picture that allows us to target wasteful and duplicative spending. The Pentagon needs to be audited just like every other federal agency in order to achieve significant budget savings.” Federal law requires all federal agencies to produce auditable financial statements on a yearly basis. However, the Pentagon has never passed an audit and over the last 30 years the Department of Defense Inspector General and the General Accounting Office (GAO) have documented serious errors in the Pentagon’s financial record keeping. For example, a March 2000 Inspector General report found that nearly one third of the accounting entries in the Pentagon’s $7.6 trillion budget were untraceable. In FY 2010, nearly half of the contracts awards in the Pentagon’s $366 billion were not fully completed. “There is no reason that the largest and most expensive agency in the federal government should hide its financial books from scrutiny,” said DeFazio. “We need to ensure that taxpayer dollars are used efficiently and effectively and this amendment would help achieve that goal.” The Pentagon was given an exemption to federal law in 2005, allowing it to avoid completing audits on a yearly basis. The exemption was contained in Section 376 of the Fiscal Year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act. DeFazio’s amendment has the effect of repealing the exemption. BACKGROUND In 1990, Congress passed a law requiring all federal agencies – including DoD – to present auditable financial statements. But for the last two decades, the Pentagon has never passed an audit. In fact, beginning in 1995, the Government Accountability Office documented serious errors in the agency’s financial statements and designated DoD’s financial management problems as “high risk.” In response, in 2001, Congress directed DoD to improve its financial management policies, procedures, and internal controls to make sure its audits were accurate and complete. This gentle nudge from Congress did not change DoD’s ways. In 2005, Congress barred the Department of Defense from obligating or expending funds to complete an audit until the Secretary submits a financial management improvement plan. The ban on completing an audit is contained in Section 376 of the Fiscal Year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act. In 2009, Congress set a “goal” – not a mandate – to complete an audit by September 30, 2017. Yet, during a September 2010 hearing, Pentagon officials stated that meeting the 2017 timeline may not be realistic and the agency may need more money from Congress to achieve full auditability. The Department of Defense continues to shirk its fiduciary responsibilities under the law as Congress continues to appropriate record level defense budgets. - 30 -
07.06.2011	DeFazio writes LaHood about his legislation limiting administration’s authority to implement program July 6, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, wrote Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood challenging the administration’s cross-border trucking “pilot” program that opens the U.S.-Mexico border to the free flow of truck traffic. He also submitted legislation to limit the administration’s authority to implement the program. This agreement will have a significant impact on the safety of American drivers, security on the border, and American jobs. “As I have said many times, three issues must be addressed in the cross-border trucking program: safety, security and job loss,” said DeFazio. “I have sent several letters to DOT asking them to address these issues. My calls for caution have gone unanswered. My legislation puts the brakes on a bad deal for American truck drivers and the traveling public.” DeFazio’s bill will limit the use of scarce Highway Trust Fund dollars to pay for the Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBR) for Mexican trucks. “As we debate deep and harsh cuts to programs that help middle class families, it is outrageous that taxpayers are being told to foot the bill for the Mexican trucking industry to comply with American safety standards. My bill would stop the Department of Transportation from raiding the Highway Trust Fund to pay for equipment on Mexican trucks. Let the Mexican government or the Mexican carriers pay for their equipment and let’s use U.S. gas tax revenue for its intended purpose of putting Americans to work rebuilding our roads and bridges,” said DeFazio. In March, DeFazio sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood requesting additional details regarding the proposed pilot program theU.S.negotiated with Mexican officials. The pilot allows Mexican trucks to operate onU.S.highways beyond the current border commercial zone and it allows Mexican carriers to obtain permanent operating authority from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) after 18 months in the pilot program. That permanent authority could not be rescinded were Congress or the Administration to terminate the Mexican truck pilot program. DeFazio continues to questions the legal authority of DOT to implement a permanent program. Full text of the letter is below: July 6, 2011 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary U.S.Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington,DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood: Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) announced a final agreement withMexicoto allow motor carriers domiciled inMexicoto operate long-haul in theUnited States. This agreement marks the first step in a full opening of the U.S.-Mexico border to the free flow of truck traffic and will have significant impacts on safety, security, and American jobs. Under this agreement, DOT will allow Mexican trucking companies to operate permanently in theU.S., even if the pilot program is eventually terminated. Allowing a pilot program to casually morph into an open border exceeds DOT’s authority under the law and flies in the face of the limitation enacted by Congress under Section 6901 of P.L. 110-28. Further, under this agreement, DOT will use scarce Federal Highway Trust Fund dollars to purchase Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBRs) for Mexican carriers. It is outrageous thatU.S.truckers, through the Federal fuel tax, will subsidize the cost of doing business for these Mexican carriers. On April 15, 2011, I sent a letter to Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Administrator Ferro urging caution and highlighting my concerns with DOT’s proposal. Unfortunately, these calls for caution have gone unanswered. This agreement is a bad deal for American truck drivers and the traveling public. I continue to believe that theU.S.should renegotiate U.S. NAFTA Annex I (I-U-21), theU.S.commitment to liberalize cross-border trucking, and eliminate he requirement to open our borders to Mexican trucks. A successful renegotiation of NAFTA is a sure way to eliminate the retaliatory and illegal tariffs whichMexicoslapped onU.S.goods in response to termination of the last pilot program, and it is consistent with President Obama’s past position on this issue. As a candidate in 2007, President Obama pledged “[o]ne of the first things [he would] do as President [would] be to call the Prime Minister of Canada and the President of Mexico and work with them to fix NAFTA.” In 2007, then Senator Obama also cosponsored the Dorgan amendment that blocked the Mexican Truck Pilot Program. However, it does not appear that this Administration has any intention of reopening NAFTA, and is committed to moving ahead with a cross-border trucking program as a way out of this trade dispute. Therefore, I am introducing legislation today to provide DOT the authority to conduct a limited pilot program. This bill ensures DOT can move ahead with a true test of the impact of Mexican truck traffic on our roads, but cannot unilaterally decide how and when to open the U.S.-Mexico border without input from Congress. I look forward to continuing our discussions on this issue of critical importance to theU.S.economy and its citizens. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress PAD:knf c: Honorable Anne Ferro To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “7.06.11 DeFazio Fights Cross-Border Trucking "Pilot" Program” from the menu to save the file on your computer. 3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “7.06.11 DeFazio Fights Cross-Border Trucking "Pilot" Program” from the menu to save the file on your computer. 3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. - 30 -
06.27.2011	June 27, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent a letter to the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) George Opfer, requesting that his office review the lengthy and unusual contracting process used by the VA for siting a new outpatient clinic in Eugene or Springfield. After two years the VA has yet to select a site for the project. DeFazio has questioned the extraordinarily lengthy contracting process, requesting information from the March 2010 bidding process as well as the recent May 2011 solicitation of interest. The VA has failed to provide adequate information and detail to verify that the contracting process has been handled in a fair and proper manner, prompting DeFazio’s request for a review. The Office of Management and Budget approved plans for a new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in July 2009 to meet the area’s growing veterans population. DeFazio’s letter to Inspector General Opfer is below: June 27, 2011 The Honorable George J. Opfer Inspector General Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (50) 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Inspector General Opfer, In July of 2009, the Office of Management and Budget approved plans for a new VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Eugene or Springfield, Oregon. Nearly two years later the VA has not selected a site for the project. I have raised several questions about the contracting process for this facility, but because of the Federal Acquisition Reform Act the VA says it is barred from providing me with any meaningful specific information about the February 2010 RFP or the most recent solicitation of interest in May of 2011. The information that the VA has revealed about the Eugene/Springfield CBOC has not provided adequate assurance that this contract has been handled in a proper manner. I respectfully request that you ensure that the VA has given fair consideration to all bids and followed all applicable laws and regulations during this extraordinarily lengthy contracting process, and that you determine the causes of this inordinate delay and propose changes to the process if necessary. The following are some of my concerns with the Eugene/Springfield CBOC contract. In February of 2010, the VA issued an RFP for the CBOC property. In April of 2010, applicants were notified via letter whether their bid met the RFP requirements or not. The VA, however, did not award the contract to any of the bidders though several apparently met the RFP requirements. In November of 2010, the VA hired Cannon Design, an outside architecture and engineering firm for the stated purpose of “[assisting] with layout and conceptual design of the building.” The VA did not provide any additional detail as to why this outside firm’s services were suddenly necessary midway through the contracting process. They also did not provide an adequate explanation as to why seven months of inaction lapsed between the receipt of bids and the hiring of Cannon Design. In May of 2011, the VA solicited new statements of interest from property owners based on a significantly enlarged property requirement and a predetermined architectural plan. No reasonable explanation has been given as to what necessitated more than a year of deliberation between the original RFP and the May 2011 solicitation of interest. The May 2011 solicitation of interest required that the CBOC building be no more than two stories in height. Several other VA medical facilities in the state of Oregon are over two stories, as are numerous private hospitals. The VA stated that a two story building would reduce unnecessary movement of patients between multiple floors and allow specialty clinics and surgery to share staff. I am not aware of any evidence that demonstrates that moving patients and staff horizontally across a sprawling floor plan is any more efficient than utilizing elevators to access multiple floors. The large footprint associated with a two story building has also drastically and unnecessarily increased the size of the property required while providing no discernable additional benefit to the veterans who will use the facility. This increase in property size has severely limited the number of available locations in the Eugene/Springfield area and has negated many centrally located properties. This is contradictory to Oregon’s land use laws, which emphasize thoughtful urban planning over sprawling suburban development. The May 2011 solicitation of interest required that the CBOC property include at least 685 parking spaces. This is an increase of 285 parking spaces from the original RFP and far exceeds the amount of parking required under city code in Eugene or Springfield. The VA indicated that this increased parking requirement was based on anecdotal evidence of parking shortages at other CBOC facilities. They cited several studies in their decision to require certain sized parking spaces, but they did not indicate that any quantitative study was referenced in the decision to drastically increase the number of parking spaces. This increase also raises questions about the requirement in the original RFP that the CBOC be located adjacent to public transportation. Eugene and Springfield have well established public transit systems. So long as the VA adheres to its initial requirement that the CBOC be accessible via these systems, there is little justification for requiring parking significantly in excess of local code. Oregon veterans have already waited nearly two years for construction to begin on a new VA CBOC in the Eugene/Springfield area. I request that any review conducted by your office not further delay the contracting process for this facility. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress - 30 –
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) have arranged a series of registration events for the VA’s new online eBenefit service. eBenefits allows veterans to monitor their VA benefits, check on the status of claims, and print out documents such as disability letters. Veterans wishing to sign up for this service must do so in person. Currently, veterans are required to travel to the Portland VA Regional Office to register. DeFazio worked with the VA to set up the events in southwestern Oregon so interested veterans would not need to make the burdensome trip to Portland. Veterans must bring two forms of identification to sign up for the service. Suggested ID: · Driver's License · Social Security Card · Passport · Birth Certificate · DD214 · DOD Identification Card · VA Identification Card NOTE: VA ID cards are not considered photo ID but will be considered as the second ID. The VA and DeFazio’s staff will be on hand at each event. For more information, interested veterans and families can call DeFazio’s office at 1-800-944-9603 or visit his website at www.defazio.house.gov. The full schedule is below. Tuesday, June 28th, 2011 FLORENCE: 8:00 am - 9:30 am Siuslaw Fire and Rescue Station Second Floor Meeting Room 2625 Hwy 101, Florence COOS BAY/NORTH BEND: 11:00 am - 12:30 pm North Bend Community Center 2222 Broadway Street, North Bend GOLD BEACH: 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm City Council Chambers 29592 Ellensburg Avenue, Gold Beach BROOKINGS: 5:00 pm - 6:30 pm Chetco Public Library 405 Alder Street, Brookings Wednesday – June 29th ROSEBURG: Noon - 2:00 pm Douglas County Library Ford Community Room 1409 NE Diamond Blvd Parking in the Fowler Street lot EUGENE/SPRINGFIELD: 4:00 pm – 7:00 pm South Eugene High School Cafeteria 400 East 19th Avenue, Eugene Park in South & West Lots Thursday, June 30th LEBANON: 9:00 am – 10:30 am Lebanon Boys & Girls Club 305 South 5th Street , Lebanon ALBANY: Noon – 1:30 pm Linn County Fair & Expo Center 3700 Knox Butte Road East, Albany CORVALLIS: 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm Chintimini Senior Center 2601 NW Tyler Avenue, Corvallis - 30 –
06.23.2011	June 23, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and a bipartisan coalition sent a letter today to President Obama urging him to file a trade complaint with the World Trade Organization (WTO) against the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) for manipulating gas prices. OPEC has consistently manipulated the supply and price of oil, driving gas prices up for American consumers and jeopardizing the shaky economic recovery. “For more than two decades, Democratic and Republican administrations have ignored OPEC’s willful violation of WTO rules,” DeFazio said. “President Obama has a chance to break the mold by immediately filing a dispute with the WTO against OPEC for illegal market manipulation and price fixing which is increasing the price of oil and padding the pockets of dubious regimes around the world. As I did with the Bush I, Clinton, and Bush II administrations, I am urging the Obama administration to stand up for American consumers and businesses that are being gouged by OPEC.” Under Article XI of the WTO rules, member countries are prohibited from using anything other than, “duties, taxes or other charges,” to limit imports or exports across their borders. DeFazio argues that oil production quotas violate WTO rules. Of the 13 OPEC countries, nine are members of the WTO and the other four have observer status and have applied to join the WTO. The United States has filed over 92 trade complaints with the WTO since President Obama took office. As a result of these complaints, tariffs have been levied against Chinese tires pricing American-made tires out of the market, and unfair subsidies going to EU’s Airbus and Chinese wind turbine manufacturers have been dropped. DeFazio’s letter asks the president to build on the momentum of these wins to continue to defend American consumers against unfair trade practices. The text of the letter to President Obama is below: June 23, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We commend you and your administration for improving the enforcement of our trade laws. Since you took office, over 92 complaints have been filed by the United States at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The recent vigor in enforcing these laws has led to tariffs on Chinese tires, successful challenges to the EU subsidies to Airbus, and most recently ending Chinese subsidies for wind turbines. That is why we write to you with urgency to ask your administration to bring a dispute in the WTO against members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) for manipulating the supply and price of oil at the expense of U.S. consumers and our economic recovery. OPEC has willfully violated WTO rules for decades. The cartel has and does collude to establish production levels to limit global supply and to maintain artificially high prices. Most recently, during the 159th OPEC Conference meeting in Vienna, Austria, OPEC refused to increase production levels despite growing global demand and lost Libyan production. We were disturbed to read in the New York Times on June 8 that despite Saudi Arabia’s preference and capacity to increase production, Iran and Venezuela opposed any move to increase output in order to maintain crude prices near the present level of $100 a barrel. The unfriendly Ahmadinejad and Chavez regimes appear to be holding the price of oil at artificially high levels to undermine the American economy and to jeopardize our economic recovery. The U.S. does not have to sit idly by while OPEC manipulates the supply and price of oil. The U.S. can and should bring a dispute to the WTO against members of OPEC for illegal market manipulation and price fixing. We urge you to continue the momentum you have built in protecting American jobs by filing a WTO complaint against OPEC for violating the General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions, otherwise known as Article XI of the original General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We believe there is a strong legal basis for the U.S. to pursue this trade complaint. The article states: “No prohibitions or restrictions other than duties, taxes or other charges, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licenses or other measures, shall be instituted or maintained by any contracting party on the importation of any product of the territory of any other contracting party or on the exportation or sale for export of any product destined for the territory of any other contracting party.” In other words, colluding to set production levels violate WTO rules, specifically Article XI. And this is precisely the purpose of OPEC. The precise meaning of this provision is fleshed out in a 1988 GATT Panel Report on “Japan - Trade in Semi-conductors.” The Panel noted: “...this wording (in Article XI) was comprehensive: it applied to all measures instituted or maintained by a contracting party prohibiting or restricting the importation, exportation or sale for export of products other than measures that take the form of duties, taxes, or other charges...This wording indicated clearly that any measure instituted or maintained by a contracting party which restricted the exportation or sale for export of products was covered by this provision, irrespective of the legal status of the measure.” The 1988 GATT panel report clarifies that only duties, taxes or other charges are allowable, not pacts among countries to limit production of a product for export. The oil production quotas devised by OPEC clearly qualify as a “quantitative restriction” and we reiterate our request that the U.S. Trade Representatives be instructed to file a case at the WTO arguing this point. Finally, we want to bring your attention to Article XX, which sets out a series of broad exceptions to Article XI. Article XX notes that none of the exceptions are valid if they are “applied in a manner which would constitute... a disguised restriction on international trade." Therefore, the broad exception in Article XX that allows restrictions for the "conservation of exhaustible natural resources" would not protect OPEC's market manipulation because OPEC is not restricting oil production due to conservation concerns or to preserve an exhaustible supply. Rather, OPEC is restricting supply solely in order to influence world oil prices which clearly qualifies as a "disguised restriction on international trade." Of the 12 OPEC countries: eight are members of the WTO (Angola, Ecuador, Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Venezuela); and four have observer status and have applied to the WTO (Algeria, Iran, Iraq, and Libya). Therefore, filing a case could have a widespread impact. Mr. President, given your administration’s success in enforcing trade laws and your personal commitment to protecting American jobs and industries, we respectfully ask that you order the U.S. Trade Representative to file a WTO complaint. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Michael Michaud Member of Congress Member of Congress Walter Jones Heath Shuler Member of Congress Member of Congress Chellie Pingree Steve Cohen Member of Congress Member of Congress Louise Slaughter Jerry Costello Member of Congress Member of Congress Daniel Lipinski Member of Congress --30--
06.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today urged President Obama to reconsider an administration proposal to extend and expand the payroll tax cut. DeFazio suggested an alternative that puts millions of people back to work by investing in critical transportation and infrastructure projects. Recent news stories have highlighted an administration proposal to extend and expand the payroll tax cut on Social Security for an additional year, adding $220 billion to the deficit. DeFazio’s alternative would create an estimated 7.5 million jobs in the construction, architecture, steel, engineering, and manufacturing industries. Full text of the letter is below. June 20, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama President, United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20502 Dear President Obama: Recent press accounts have reported an administration proposal to extend the payroll tax cut on Social Security for another year and expand it to include the employer side of payroll taxes. I’d like to suggest a more effective alternative to further payroll tax cuts that will put more people back to work at a lower cost. The one-year payroll tax relief in 2011 added $110 billion to the burgeoning deficit. Extending this tax break a second year and including the employer contribution will add $220 billion to the 2012 deficit. I am not convinced continuing a practice that adds billions to our deficit for an unproven job creation policy makes good sense. Putting a few dollars a week in people’s wallets is not hastening a recovery or creating long-term economic stability. Of the tens of thousands of constituent letters, emails, and phone calls I have received since this so-called “tax relief” began, no one has applauded lower payroll taxes. Nor has anyone attributed these lower taxes to job creation. Instead, my constituents remain concerned about the anemic recovery dragged down by high unemployment and high deficits. Americans understand they cannot ask their children, grandchildren, and even their great grandchildren to pay off the debt we created to give people a small temporary tax cut. But most Americans do think we should be making direct investments that create real jobs. They can all name a federal infrastructure project they benefit from like a nearby interstate highway, federal dam, school, or wastewater system. As you continue talks with Congress over deficit reduction and raising the debt ceiling, I believe you can make a strong argument that the benefits of investment in infrastructure will more than offset the costs of borrowing. Credible economists attribute 25 percent of today’s deficits to lost revenue from high unemployment, the cost of unemployment benefits, and necessary ancillary benefits. Thus putting people back to work could lower the deficit by 25 percent. Like the U.S., many countries around the world also are making deep and painful cuts to get their budgets balanced. But even as our competitors are making austerity cuts, many have maintained investments in their transportation and infrastructure systems because they know these investments produce economic gains. Similarly, the bond markets also put a high value on long-term investments that enhance national productivity versus their concerns about borrowing for temporary tax cuts targeted to consumption. I propose an alternative that is a proven strategy to create millions of jobs which are highly visible to all Americans. If we instead invested $220 billion in infrastructure projects, we would quickly create jobs for construction workers, architects, steelworkers, civil and software engineers, manufactures, laborers, and a multitude of businesses that supply materials for all these projects. With strong Buy America provisions for these types of projects, we can ensure we are creating jobs here at home. We know that every $1 billion invested in just transportation infrastructure, creates or sustains over 34,000 jobs and produces $6.2 billion in economic activity. Thus a $220 billion investment creates 7.5 million jobs and $1.3 trillion in economic activity. This kind of investment would go a long way toward eliminating the backlog of work that must be done to maintain and improve our transportation system and put Americans back to work. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) reports approximately one-third of America's roads are in "poor or mediocre condition," and over 150,000 of our bridges are structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. Our major city transit systems have a capital investment backlog of over $70 billion not to mention more than $200 billion in proposed unfunded new transit projects. Across the country, trucks are rerouted due to weight restriction on bridges, and Americans waste time and money on high-priced gasoline idling in traffic congestion. Most Americans think about federal investment when it directly affects them. For instance, Chicago’s transit system has a $6.8 billion backlog of deferred maintenance projects. Unfortunately, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) only provided $240.2 million in transit funds to the whole Chicago area. The transit authority obligated the entire amount within 30 days. While ARRA provided insufficient funding for infrastructure, it also specifically excluded long-term investment in school construction to make way for the marginally effective Making Work Pay tax cut. When that cut expired at the end of 2010, no one noticed. These patterns of promoting tax policies are not major job creators while increasing the deficit are undermining our message to voters. Your recent speeches indicates a renewed focus on transportation and infrastructure spending and your 2012 budget request included a one-year boost of $50 billion towards investment in infrastructure. My alternative is consistent with these positions. Let’s do away with the dubious payroll tax reduction and use that $220 billion to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and put people to work. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress -30-
06.17.2011	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will attend a bill signing ceremony on Monday, June 20, 2011 for state HB 3596, which officially annexes the Coos Bay Rail Line into the Port of Coos Bay’s port district. The Port already owns the rail line, but annexing it into the port district gives the Port eligibility to apply for additional grants and loans not otherwise available to them. DeFazio will join Governor John Kitzhaber, state legislators, and Port of Coos Bay officials at a bill signing ceremony in the Governor’s Ceremonial Conference Room at the State Capitol. The rail line runs from Danebo in West Eugene to Coquille in Coos County. Background The Coos Bay Rail Line was embargoed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP), a subsidiary of Fortress/RailAmerica, in September 2007. The embargo resulted in the loss of hundreds of jobs and negatively impacted businesses in Southwest Oregon. Since CORP embargoed the Coos Bay Rail Line, DeFazio has worked with the Port of Coos Bay, and state, and local shippers to get the line reopened. In 2008, DeFazio testified before the Federal Surface Transportation Board and requested they approve the Port’s application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. In March 2009, DeFazio secured $8 million in federal funds to help the Port buy the rail line. Later, DeFazio played the critical role in the Port winning a U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) grant of $13.5 million to finish repairs on the Coos Bay Rail Line. The USDOT fast-tracked the response and awarded the grant to the Port in October 2010. Monday, June 20th: 11:30 AM-11:45 AM HB 3596 Bill Signing Oregon State Capitol Governor’s Ceremonial Conference Room Salem, OR --30--
06.10.2011	June 10, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Peter DeFazio and Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley announced the Port of Brookings Harbor will receive $1.2 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to replace docks destroyed by the March 11th tsunami. “I toured the Port days after the tsunami. The staff at the port had done an incredible job cleaning up the damage the tsunami caused, but it was clear they were going to need significant assistance if the port was to get back on its feet. This grant goes a long way toward that end. I am pleased that FEMA has designated the money needed to help the hard working community-members as they rebuild the docks destroyed and rehabilitate the docks that survived,” said DeFazio “The tsunami devastated the Port of Brookings but the community rallied back almost immediately. This funding is just part of what will be needed to repair the damage. But thanks to the hard work of community leaders, Brookings is getting the attention and resources it needs,” said Merkley. “Brookings-Harbor Port Director Ted Fitzgerald and his team have done an incredible job of getting the Port cleaned up after the disaster in March,” said Wyden, who visited the Port in April and toured the damage facilities. “The channel is open and some of the docks have been repaired, but there is still work to be done. This money from FEMA will help complete the job and get the Port ready for the summer commercial and recreational fishing and boating season.” As was reported in the Register-Guard on May 12th, federal grants cover 75% of costs associated with damage in disaster areas. The remaining 25% is covered by the applicant, which in this case is the state of Oregon. In addition to the $1.2 million form FEMA, the state will have to match a $400,000 allocation to the Port of Brookings-Harbor for repairs. Immediately following the tsunami, every member of the Oregon congressional delegation worked together to urge President Barack Obama to swiftly approve a disaster declaration for the Southern Oregon coast. President Obama made the declaration in near record time a week later. - 30 -
05.31.2011	May 31, 2011 Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement in response to the debt ceiling vote: “Today’s debt limit vote failed to pass because neither Republicans nor Democrats have made meaningful progress on balancing the federal budget. The Republican 2012 budget makes devastating cuts to transportation, education, and ends Medicare as we know it. Despite these cuts, they fail to balance the budget for three decades. The Democratic 2012 budget would take even longer to restore balance. Neither is a serious long term plan to restore fiscal sanity. Today’s vote was necessary to conclude the debt limit theatrics and bring us closer to negotiating a comprehensive budget. Neither party has the necessary votes to extend the debt ceiling without a bi-partisan deal on the budget. We need to pay our debts and obligations and I will be urging the Republican leadership to tie future debt ceiling legislation to a balanced budget amendment. I have long supported a balanced budget amendment and had it passed in 1995, we wouldn’t be in this mess. A balanced budget amendment would force both sides to make some tough decisions on both budget cuts and raising revenue. Balancing the budget does not need to be a partisan issue. For example, in his second term President Reagan increased taxes several times to reduce the massive deficits created by the failure of supply side trickle-down policies. Again in the late 1990s, Clinton and a Republican Congress balanced a budget from 1998 to 2001 because they compromised on both spending cuts and increased taxes. With adoption of a balanced budget amendment Congress could balance the budget in ten years. This begins with repealing the Bush tax cuts, cutting the deficit in half. To reduce federal spending, Congress should bring our troops home from Iraq and Afghanistan, cut antiquated Cold War weapons systems, and cut agriculture subsidies. Further cuts can be made by eliminating special interest tax breaks and subsidies for ethanol, big oil, and prescription drug companies. Finally, Congress should continuously scrub the rest of the budget for further reductions to ensure a balanced budget in ten years.” To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “5.31.11 DeFazio statement on debt ceiling” from the menu to save the file on your computer. 3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “5.31.11 DeFazio statement on debt ceiling” from the menu to save the file on your computer. 3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. - 30 -
05.31.2011	May 31, 2011 Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) reintroduced the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act that requires the health insurance industry to operate under the same anti-trust laws as all other industries in America. Last year, during the highly-charged political atmosphere of the healthcare debate, the House passed this legislation with a super majority of bipartisan support by a vote of 406 to 19. “No matter what political ideology, most can agree that insurance companies should play by the same rules as virtually every other industry in America. Right now, it is legal under federal law for insurance companies to collude to drive up prices, limit competition, conspire to underpay doctors and hospitals, and price gouge consumers. This legislation is a huge step in the fight to address the rapidly escalating cost of health insurance premiums. If 406 members could support this last year, there’s no reason to a not pass it again this year,” DeFazio said. “Prior to the 1940s, insurance companies were regulated by the same anti-trust laws as almost every other industry. With the passage of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, Congress created what was meant to be a temporary exemption for them. It has remained in place to this day at the expense of consumers,” said Slaughter. “I’ve heard too many complaints about the health insurance industry engaging in price fixing, bid rigging, and other anti-consumer and anti-competitive practices. It’s well past time that Congress act to strike this sweetheart deal. The last Congress knew this to be a bipartisan and sensible proposition. I hope this Congress knows that as well.” Background The insurance industry has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed by Congress in 1945. McCarran-Ferguson leaves regulation to the states, many of which have inadequate resources and inconsistent enforcement. A recent study shows that in six of the seven most concentrated markets for health insurance—no significant consumer protection actions have been taken against health insurers in the past five years. This result has allowed insurance companies to collude amongst themselves. It will end this practice by subjecting the health insurance industry to all federal anti-trust laws and by giving the Department of Justice the authority to go after anticompetitive practices of health insurers if the states are unable or unwilling to do it themselves. The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone could save consumers billions of dollars. -30-
05.26.2011	May 26, 2011 Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation that will bring immediate relief to American families and small businesses being crushed by high gas prices. H.R. 2003, the Taxing Speculators Out of the Oil Market Act would target Wall Street speculators that are responsible for unnecessarily inflating the price of gas up to 80 cents a gallon. DeFazio’s bill would immediately penalize speculative market manipulation, bringing relief at the pump right away. “This Memorial Day weekend, families all across America are digging deep to pay $60 for a fill up at the gas station. And $12 of that $60 will go to speculators on Wall Street,” DeFazio said. “Today I introduced legislation that would bring immediate relief to Americans struggling to fill up their tanks. It’s pretty simple, Congress and the Administration are either on the side of Wall Street speculators who are manipulating gas prices to get rich, or they stand with the American people and the American economy.” In the short-term, Congress can quickly reduce the price of oil by preventing excessive speculation in the oil markets. A decade ago, Congress passed the Enron loophole that allows Wall Street speculators to enter the energy futures markets. Today up to 70% of oil trading is done by Wall Street speculators who are allowed to bet on oil prices even thought they are not oil users. All of this speculating by Wall Street bankers substantially drives up the price Americans pay at the pump. H.R. 2003 will deter speculation by raising the cost to bet on oil markets. By charging a miniscule 0.01 percent tax on each transaction, excessive speculation would become too expensive and risky. Discouraging excessive oil speculation will lower gas prices up to 80 cents a gallon because it does not tax oil, just Wall Street speculators. Today, the Populist Caucus unveiled a three part plan to immediately lower gas prices. DeFazio’s legislation was part of that plan. In addition to H.R. 2003, DeFazio supports efforts to put additional pressure on speculators by releasing oil from the strategic petroleum reserve. He also supports efforts to end subsidies for big oil companies who are reaping the biggest profits in the history of the world. --30--
05.25.2011	New security equipment would increase airport efficiency and support new commercial jet air service crucial to the coastal economy May 25, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) led a joint letter with Senators Wyden and Merkley to Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator John Pistole urging TSA to provide needed security equipment at the Southwest Oregon Regional Airport in North Bend. “Air service is vital to the continued economic development and job creation on the South Coast,” DeFazio said. “Updated security technology in North Bend would increase efficiency and will be crucial to supporting the new commercial jet air service scheduled to begin next month. I am urging TSA to either provide new technology to meet the unique needs at North Bend, or to find surplus equipment in the system that would be appropriate to meet their needs.” Currently TSA screeners at the North Bend Airport must screen both passengers and baggage for security threats. The baggage screening must be performed manually because the airport lacks the necessary technology. This screening process is further complicated by the large number of heavy golf bags that must be screened within a short amount of time, and the high number of false positives due to chemicals routinely found on golf courses. Screening baggage within flight schedule requirements will be an even bigger challenge once Sky West’s jet service between San Francisco and North Bend begins next month. This summer, Portland International Airport will be moving to new in-line baggage screening technology. Last month, DeFazio requested that the surplus Portland equipment go to North Bend. Unfortunately, TSA determined the surplus Portland equipment is not appropriate for North Bend. DeFazio’s letter asks TSA to consider the scheduled increased traffic volume at North Bend in determining its eligibility for new screening technology, and if that is not an option that TSA find surplus equipment elsewhere in the system that would be appropriate for North Bend to use. The full text of the letter is below. The Honorable John Pistole, Administrator Transportation Security Administration 601 South 12th Arlington, VA 20598-6005 Dear Administrator Pistole: We are writing in support of a request previously submitted by the Oregon Director of the TSA, Mike Irwin, in support of Southwest Oregon Regional Airport (OTH), one of their spoke airports in North Bend, Oregon. OTH has been struggling for several years to retain and improve commercial air service to Oregon’s south coast, which has been particularly hard hit by the economic recession. Commercial air service is critical to the economic infrastructure and vitality of the south coast, as it is in many communities. As a result, it was great news when Sky West recently announced they will begin regional jet service, with 50 passenger RJ200 jets, between San Francisco and OTH beginning in June of this year. In addition, a significant number of passengers transiting OTH are guests and golfers at the world-famous Bandon Dunes Golf Resort. The increased service introduces a new challenge for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) at OTH. The current Explosive Trace Detection (ETD) baggage screening technology makes it difficult for the Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) to meet flight schedule requirements, particularly with respect to the inordinate volume of golf bags. The additional service will inevitably cause additional delays, potentially putting OTH’s commercial air service at risk. The ETD system currently deployed is simply not efficient or effective enough to handle the significant volume of golf bags required to be screened at OTH. An associated challenge is the number of false positives due to chemicals routinely found on golf courses. In addition, the multi-level design of the airport terminal requires the TSA’s very small staff to transit significant distances to accomplish the sequential process of baggage and passenger screening. The installation of an Explosive Detection System (EDS) would significantly increase efficiency, reduce the number of overall missed bags, delayed flights, and ultimately increase security. We believe the airport would greatly benefit from a new CT80 XL EDS machine. We fully understand from our conversations with local TSA that the daily volume of passenger bags alone would not normally justify an EDS. However, we ask you to consider the unique circumstances at OTH. If a new CT80 XL EDS is truly not an option, we ask you to consider looking at surplus equipment from somewhere else in the system that would be appropriate to serve the unique screening needs of OTH. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Ron Wyden Jeff Merkley Member of Congress United States Senator United States Senator - 30 -
05.11.2011	DEFAZIO TO HOLD SENIOR TOWN HALL MEETINGS WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will hold senior town hall meetings the week on May 16th. DeFazio will discuss proposed changes to Medicare and Social Security, Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) legislation, and the federal budget. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Monday, May 16th: 10:30 –11:30 AM Eugene Senior Town Hall Meeting Campbell Senior Center 155 High Street 1:30 – 2:30 PM Springfield Senior Town Hall Meeting Willamalane Adult Activity Center McKenzie Room 215 W. C St. Tuesday, May 17th: 10:30 AM–11:30 AM Florence Senior Town Hall Meeting Florence Events Center 715 Quince Street Florence 2:00 –3:00 PM Reedsport Senior Town Hall Meeting Umpqua Discovery Center 409 Riverfront Way Reedsport Wednesday, May 18th: 10:30 AM–11:30 AM Canyonville Senior Town Hall Meeting Seven Feathers Casino Azalea Room 146 Chief Miwaleta Lane 1:30 –2:30 PM Roseburg Senior Town Hall Meeting Roseburg City Hall Council Chambers 900 SE Douglas Avenue ?? Thursday, May 19th: 11:00 AM–12:00 PM Corvallis Senior Town Hall Meeting Corvallis Public Library 645 NW Monroe Ave Corvallis 2:00 – 3:00 PM Lebanon Senior Town Hall Meeting Lebanon Senior Center Auditorium 80 Tangent St Lebanon
05.04.2011	??Use this interactive tool from the New York Times to try to balance the budget. Click here to balance the budget.
04.15.2011	April 15, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that $2.5 million in federal funding has been made available to the Port of Coos Bay for the rehabilitate and repair the Coos Bay Rail Line. The restoration of this rail line is vital to the health of the coastal economy. These funds will be used by the Port to purchase additional railroad ties so traffic on the line can move at increased speeds allowing shippers to move loads faster and in a more cost-efficient manner. DeFazio had previously secured $5 million for the development of short-haul intermodal projects in Oregon in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). The funds made available to the Port of Coos Bay came from these SAFETEA-LU funds. "This is great news for Coos Bay," DeFazio said. "These funds will help improve the Coos Bay rail line, put people back to work, and ensure area businesses can get their goods to market in a safe and cost-effective manner. These funds help us meet this goal sooner." BACKGROUND The Coos Bay Rail Line was embargoed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP), a subsidiary of Fortress/RailAmerica, in September 2007. The embargo resulted in the loss of hundreds of jobs and negatively impacted businesses in Southwest Oregon. Since CORP embargoed the Coos Bay Rail Line, DeFazio has worked with the Port of Coos Bay, and state, and local shippers to get the line reopened. In 2008, DeFazio testified before the Federal Surface Transportation Board and requested they approve the Port's application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. In March 2009, DeFazio also secured $8 million in federal funds to help the Port buy the rail line. Later, DeFazio requested the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) award $13.5 million in competitive grant funds to finish repairs on the Coos Bay Rail Line. The DOT fast-tracked the response and obligated the funding to the Port. - 30 -
04.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-4) sent a letter to Secretary of the Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki Wednesday requesting that he visit the Roseburg Oregon Veterans Medical Center before the VA makes any decisions to cut medical services there. "In order to help you make a more informed decision, we invite you to visit the Roseburg hospital before deciding on VARHS's fate," wrote the Members. "We believe seeing the facility and talking to local veterans will give you a more accurate understanding of the situation facing our rural veterans and allow Oregon stakeholders to showcase the value of this beautiful site and the deep need we have for a full- service veterans' health care facility in Roseburg to serve veterans in all of southern Oregon." In previous letters to Secretary Shinseki, Senators Merkley and Wyden, and Congressman DeFazio have expressed their concerns about the failures of an independent review to comprehensively assess the current and historical levels of care at Roseburg and the lack of consultation with local veterans who depend on the medical services available there. The full text of the letter is available below. ### April 13, 2011 The Honorable Eric K. Shinseki Secretary of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, N.W. Washington D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Shinseki, During the past nine months, we have been gravely concerned about the future of rural Oregon's Roseburg Veterans ' Hospital. Specifically, we want the site returned to a full-service medical center rather than continue the downward decline through attrition of services it was experiencing prior to our intervention. The ICU must be returned so veterans receive the best health care possible. An independent study, contracted to Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH) has been completed and sent to your office via VISN-20. In a previous letter, we expressed reservations about the process BAH used and the universe of options outlined at a town hall meeting in Roseburg in December where veterans and other interested stakeholders received a presentation. Our opinion of the report remains unchanged. In order to help you make a more informed decision, we invite you to visit the Roseburg hospital before deciding on VARHS's fate. We believe seeing the facility and talking to local veterans will give you a more accurate understanding of the situation facing our rural veterans and allow Oregon stakeholders to showcase the value of this beautiful site and the deep need we have for a full- service veterans' health care facility in Roseburg to serve veterans in all of southern Oregon. We would like to arrange a date that works for all of us and will make ourselves available as best we can to accommodate your schedule. Will White, from Senator Merkley's office, will call within a week to discuss scheduling options. We look forward to your visit. Sincerely, Jeff MerkleyUnited States Senator Ron WydenUnited States Senator Peter DeFazioUnited States Congressman
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has introduced the End the Trade Deficit Act which would establish a commission to review and report on free trade agreements that have destroyed American manufacturing and shipped millions of good paying American jobs overseas. The bill would also put a moratorium on new Free Trade Agreements until the Commission has submitted a final report to the president and Congress. A similar bill sponsored by DeFazio passed the House in 2010. DeFazio's bill forces policy leaders to rethink the wisdom of the nation's current U.S. trade policy. DeFazio believes we need a trade policy that promotes manufacturing investment in the U.S., creates a level playing field for U.S. manufacturers, improves U.S. infrastructure, and strengthens the labor pool through improved education and training programs. "The U.S. has lost 3,718,000 manufacturing jobs since 1998, and since 2001 we have lost 42,400 factories. While we hemorrhage our manufacturing base, Congress will vote on three so-called free trade agreements that ship more jobs overseas and increase our trade deficit," DeFazio said. "We can't afford to lose any more jobs to trade agreements that jeopardize our economic future. This legislation aims to level the playing field for American manufacturing workers who have been steadily losing ground for the last three decades and strengthen our economic security." BACKGROUND In 1998, the Congress authorized the Trade Deficit Review Commission in the wake of a $166 billion trade deficit. It was a watered down version of one designed in the End the Trade Deficit Act introduced by Rep. DeFazio and Senator Dorgan. Unfortunately, the Commission was deadlocked along partisan lines and no recommendations were ever enacted. The current recent recession has not changed the underlying trend of increasing trade deficits. Despite a slight drop in 2009, the trade deficit ballooned to $498 billion by 2010. The United States has had 35 years of consecutive annual trade deficits, totaling $7.8 trillion. - 30 -
04.06.2011	April 6, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced the War Powers Amendments of 2011, legislation which will protect and defend constitutionally-supported war powers granted to Congress. For over 150 years, Congress, the courts, and presidents have followed the intent of our founders. But, when President Truman took the U.S. to war in Korea there began a steady erosion of congressional war powers, which can be witnessed most recently in President Obama's use of U.S. military forces in Libya. The Supreme Court ruled that Members of Congress do not have the standing to enforce the War Powers Act. This would be rectified by DeFazio's legislation. In addition, DeFazio's bill clarifies the collective judgment that both the Congress and the President to apply to the use of U.S. military actions, ensuring that unilateral military operations face Congressional scrutiny. "The Founding Fathers were very clear when they crafted the Constitution," DeFazio said. "The solemn war-making powers were granted to the Legislative Branch, not the Executive. The President's recent decision to engage U.S. military forces and equipment in the Libyan conflict is the most recent example in a long-standing Executive Branch tradition of ignoring this constitutionally-affirmed power. This bill will re-establish Congress as a co-equal branch of the federal government and it will defend the Constitution as the Founders intended." DeFazio has long sought to strengthen the 1973 War Powers Resolution by requiring the President to seek advanced congressional approval before U.S. Armed Forces are introduced in conflict, except in the case of an immediate threat to the territory and possessions of the United States, its troops, or its citizens overseas. One of the first bills DeFazio introduced as a member of Congress in 1987, was a resolution declaring that the requirement of the War Powers Resolution applied to President Reagan's use of U.S. Naval forces to escort reflagged Kuwaiti tankers in the Persian Gulf. DeFazio and then Rep. Mike Lowry subsequently organized a lawsuit against President Reagan that included more than 100 members of Congress as plaintiffs. It was the largest lawsuit ever brought by members of Congress against a sitting President. In 1999, he introduced legislation to strengthen the War Powers Act. DeFazio has been a long-time critic of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. He strongly opposed the launch of the Iraq war and vehemently opposed all efforts to escalate the Afghanistan war. He has consistently supported efforts to draw down U.S. forces in Afghanistan, recently voting for Rep. Kucinich's plan for a withdrawal of U.S. troops. --30--
03.30.2011	March 30, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) joined a bipartisan coalition to introduce H.R. 1236, the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act (Small BREW Act) which lowers taxes for over 1,600 small brewers across the country. The craft brew industry is an engine of job creation. Small brewers support over 100,000 full- and part-time jobs and create over $3 billion a year in wages and benefits yet the industry is struggling with higher costs for production, raw materials, and packaging than their larger and in many cases foreign owned competitors. This legislation would provide needed relief for an industry that is domestically owned, mostly domestically sourced and supports American jobs. "The two largest breweries in the U.S. are now foreign owned," DeFazio said. "This tax cut would provide a real economic boost for these craft brewers, who are U.S. owned and provide good paying jobs here at home, to compete. At a time when neither party seems to agree on much, this is a common sense job booster that both Republicans and Democrats can raise a glass to." The Small BREW Act would reduce the per barrel tax for small brewers who produce less than 2 million barrels annually. The bill would reduce tax rates from $7 to $3.50 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels produced and it would reduce taxes from $18 to $16 per barrel up to 2 million barrels. This will affect over 200 small brewers in Oregon, including Ninkasi, Oakshire and Rogue. Eugene based brewery Ninkasi applauded the effort: "As a small business that is growing, any excise tax savings will go directly back into our local economy, through hiring, facilities improvements or equipment purchases. The excise taxes that we pay are additional to all of the standard business taxes, so a reduction, especially for a smaller brewery like ours, really helps to enhance our ability to be successful in the current economic climate." BACKGROUND DeFazio is the co-founder of the bipartisan House Small Brewers Caucus. Over 80 Republican and Democratic members joined the Caucus in 2010, which educates Members on relevant business, regulatory and societal issues in addition to advancing key legislation to help the industry. DeFazio is an original cosponsor of the excise tax break legislation, which was first introduced by Representative Richard Neal in 2009. Oregon is considered by many to be the birthplace of the modern craft brew renaissance. Oregon small breweries have about 11 percent of the market share in Oregon, which is the highest of any state Total economic impact from the beer industry on Oregon's economy is $2.44 billion Oregon has over 200 breweries, which makes it the second largest producer of craft beer in the US 38% Percent of all draft beer consumed in Oregon is brewed in Oregon Oregon is the second largest hop producer in the United States - 30 –
03.22.2011	March 22, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Members of Oregon's House congressional delegation, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Kurt Schrader (D-Canby), Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and David Wu (D-Hillsdale) were joined by 49 of their colleagues today in sending a bipartisan letter to Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and Ranking Member Chris Van Hollen urging the Budget Committee to accommodate a reauthorization of county payments in the FY 2012 House Budget Resolution. Funding county payments in FY 2012 would ensure rural counties have the resources to provide essential services like emergency services, health care, and schools while Congress works to find long-term funding solutions for timber dependent communities. "County timber payments represent an important lifeline for rural forested communities in Oregon," Walden said. "While many challenges lie ahead in identifying a solution that can be signed into law, building a bipartisan coalition in the House of Representatives is an important step. We appreciate the relevant House committees working with us as we identify ways to sustainably fund our rural forested counties without adding to the federal deficit. I look forward to continuing the important work with the counties and my colleagues in the days ahead. Of course, both the counties and the communities would be better off if we could improve federal policies to manage our forests and put Oregonians back to work in the woods." "Without a meaningful, long-term solution for our timber dependent communities, counties in Southwest Oregon will again be forced to start handing out pink slips in a bad economy – we will lose sheriff patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services. Rural communities can't afford higher unemployment or further erosion of essential services. We need language in the House Budget Resolution in order to keep communities afloat and avoid these disastrous cuts while we continue to work towards a long-term solution that will sustain these counties long into the future," DeFazio said. "This program keeps schools open, roads maintained, vital services operating and upholds a century-long commitment that Congress made to rural America," said Schrader. "As a delegation we continue the education campaign to make sure our colleagues understand how critical this funding is to not only rural Oregon, but all rural America. It's inclusion in the President's budget was an important victory, but the work goes on to make sure our rural communities can keep their doors open." "I'm glad the Oregon delegation is coming together to push for this funding, which is so vital to communities all across our state. While we know this will be an uphill struggle in the current budget year, my colleagues and I will do all that we can to sustain the federal partnership for rural communities," Blumenauer said. "It's critical that the federal government continue to honor its 100-year commitment to our rural communities," said Congressman David Wu. "I look forward to working with my colleagues on a multi-year reauthorization in order to ensure continued access to vital services throughout the state." The President's budget included $328 million to fund the first of a multi-year extension of the program. The bipartisan House coalition is working to get the program included in the House Budget Resolution scheduled to be released in early April. The full text of the letter is below: March 22, 2011 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan The Honorable Chris Van Hollen Chairman Ranking Member House Committee on the Budget House Committee on the Budget 207 Cannon House Office Building B71 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Ryan and Ranking Member Van Hollen: We request your assistance as we work with our rural counties to identify solutions to extend and fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ("SRS," P.L. 94-565) in FY 2012 and beyond. Furthermore, we request that the House Budget Committee accommodate this reauthorization in its FY 2012 House Budget Resolution. This is an important issue impacting jobs and the funding of schools and emergency services in our rural counties. We understand well the current budgetary climate and the need to reduce deficit spending, and support offsetting a long-term reauthorization of SRS. Furthermore, we appreciate your willingness to work with us and the authorizing committees in the coming months to help identify legitimate offsets that sustainably fund this important rural priority without adding to the growing federal deficit. With the establishment of the National Forest System between 1891 and 1911 by Congressional action and Presidential Proclamation, hundreds of millions of forestland acres throughout the United States were set aside in perpetuity and removed from further settlement. These new forest reserves, which were to be managed by the U.S. Forest Service, in many cases consumed between 65 to 90 percent of the land in rural western, southeastern and southern counties. Setting aside large blocks of public lands and the ongoing acquisition of large tracks of private forestlands since have diminished the potential tax base and ability for the counties to generate economic activity. Congress in 1908 and subsequently in 1913 acknowledged the enormous collective impact these actions had on counties and their ability to fund essential services, including the education of rural school children, the maintenance of rural roads and infrastructure, and the provision of emergency services. President Theodore Roosevelt signed into law the Twenty-five Percent Fund Act of 1908 (16 USC. 500) and in 1913 amendments were made to the Weeks Act, which created a revenue sharing mechanism specifying that 25 percent of all revenues generated from the multiple-use management of our national forests would be shared with the counties for "the benefit of the public schools and public roads in the county or counties in which such national forests are situated". Through this action, Congress committed to a long-term partnership referred to by many as a "compact" and recognized as a fundamental obligation of the federal government in exchange for establishing the National Forest System. The intent of Congress that our national forests be managed in a sustained multiple-use manner to provide revenues for local counties and the federal treasury in perpetuity worked well from 1908 until about 1986. From 1986 to the present, due to reduced active management of our federal forests and increased protections for species on federal lands, these revenues dropped precipitously (as much as 99 percent in some counties and on average 70 percent nationwide). Congress responded by passing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000. In many rural counties once dependent on timber revenue, these payments are the lifeblood of local schools and community essential services. The legislation also created highly successful "Resource Advisory Committees," which have brought polarized groups together to conduct hundreds of restoration projects on national forests across the country without being litigated or appealed. In 2007, Congress reauthorized this important law and extended SRS payments for one year to help rural counties and schools avert a major financial crisis. In October 2008, Congress reauthorized the SRS legislation for four years as part of H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The reauthorization provided rural counties with four years of payments on a declining scale for fiscal years 2008-2011. While the four-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act was a rare legislative accomplishment that helped preserve and create jobs across America, rural counties are again facing a budgetary cliff after they receive the final SRS payment in FY 2011. In response to this ongoing issue, we need a meaningful and long-term solution that will help ensure rural communities have the resources they need to provide basic county services. Congress made a promise to these counties more than 100 years ago and we intend to do all that we can to make sure Congress honors its commitment. Accommodating the reauthorization of the SRS, while showing that it will be offset by the relevant authorizing committees in the FY 2012 House Budget Resolution, will go a long way in demonstrating Congress's commitment and responsibility to the economic security and sustainability of our rural counties. Thank you for your attention and consideration to this important issue. We look forward to working with you and the appropriate authorizing committees to develop a plan for reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. Sincerely, Greg Walden Peter DeFazio Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer David Wu Member of Congress Member of Congress --30--
03.19.2011	March 19, 2011 SPRINGFIELD, OR –U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) demanded President Obama seek Congressional authorization under the War Powers Act before engaging any U.S. military forces in the Libyan conflict. DeFazio issued the following statement after recent escalation. "The president must immediately convene the Congress and ask for authority under the War Powers Act if he intends to engage U.S. forces in hostile action. In asking for this authorization, he would be required to propose the scope, duration, and objective of the U.S. forces in this conflict. Until then, the president must restrict U.S. involvement in carrying out the United Nations mandate to logistical support. Our allies in Britain, France, and the Arab nations have sophisticated military and they are capable of carrying out the orders from the U.N. We can support them by using AWACs for intelligence gathering, refueling ally jets, and other logistical support. Only Congress has the authority to declare war. If the president intends to engage U.S. forces, he has an obligation to recall Congress and ask for such authority." BACKGROUND DeFazio has been a long-time critic of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. He strongly opposed the launch of the Iraq war and vehemently opposed all efforts to escalate the Afghanistan war. He has consistently supported efforts to draw down U.S. forces in Afghanistan, recently voting for Rep. Kucinich's plan for a withdrawal of U.S. troops. - 30 –
03.15.2011	March 15, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) sent a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki insisting the VA explore different ways to protect veteran’s health care in Southwestern Oregon. The letter highlights the partnership between Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) and rural health care providers and the successful recruitment of medical specialists in rural Oregon communities. They ask for “outside-the-box” thinking when considering the future of the Roseburg VA Medical Center (RVAMC). The VA hired Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH) to study options for the future of the RVAMC. In their preliminary list of options, BAH called for significant reorganization at the RVAMC based, in part, on the assumption that qualified medical professionals could not be recruited to live and work in the Roseburg area. In February, DeFazio, Wyden and Merkley sent a letter to Sec. Shinseki asking him to consider articles drawing attention to successful doctor recruitment in the Roseburg area. BAH recently submitted their final report to the VA, which Sec. Shinseki is currently considering. The full text of the letter is below: March 15, 2011 Dear Secretary Shinseki: It has come to our attention that Booz Allen Hamilton’s final report on the Roseburg VA Healthcare System has been completed and is in the process of being reviewed by the VA. Thus far, every option put forth by BAH has rigidly clung to the assumption that services must be jettisoned from Roseburg in order for the facility to survive. We contend that Roseburg needs outside-the-box thinking that leads to creative solutions to maximize services for veterans. Unfortunately, neither BAH nor VISN 20 appear to be thinking beyond their typical bureaucratic decision-making processes. We recently became aware of the successful outreach and collaboration between Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) and several rural health care providers. OHSU has a compelling track record of working with rural healthcare facilities across Oregon to help recruit and retain medical specialists and expand the services that can be offered in rural communities. OHSU also has a successful and long-time collaborative partnership with the Portland VAMC. This existing collaboration makes OHSU uniquely able to adapt their past successes with rural health care providers to meet the needs of the Roseburg VA Healthcare System. Given their record of success, we ask that you invite the Oregon Health & Science University to collaborate with the Roseburg VA to look for the outside-the-box solutions the veterans of southwest Oregon deserve. OHSU has shown demonstrable results in overcoming rural health care challenges. Suffering from a lack of needed medical specialists, Mid-Columbia Medical Center in The Dalles, Oregon (population 12,000) partnered with OHSU to expand the medical services that they were able to offer in their small community. OHSU has now aided Mid-Columbia in recruiting two cardiologists by offering them research appointments at OHSU once a week while they practice and live in The Dalles for the remainder of the week. In a similar effort Columbia Memorial Hospital in Astoria, Oregon (population 10,000) partnered with OHSU to bring cancer specialists as well as a cardiologist to Astoria. Even as far away as Roseburg, OHSU has a strong and highly successful telemedicine agreement with Mercy Medical Center. Given that the aforementioned success took place in civilian medical centers, it is important to reiterate that OHSU works closely with the Portland VAMC. Approximately 80% of the VA doctors at Portland have joint appointments as researchers or teachers at OHSU. As well, a significant number of medical students and residents rotate between OHSU and the Portland VAMC for their training. We don’t think your impending decision is very difficult. You can accept the BAH report, permit service reductions at Roseburg, and disillusion thousands of veterans or you can allow Roseburg to partner with OHSU and explore ways to protect veterans health care. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Ron Wyden Jeff Merkley Member of Congress United States Senator United States Senator -- 30 --
03.10.2011	Skeptical about legal authority to grant permanent access; opposes U.S. taxpayers funding equipment for Mexican trucks March 10, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood requesting additional details regarding the proposed pilot program the U.S. is negotiating with Mexican officials. The pilot would allow Mexican trucks to operate on U.S. highways beyond the current border commercial zone and it would allow Mexican carriers to obtain permanent operating authority from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) after 18 months in the pilot program. That permanent authority would not be rescinded were Congress or the Administration to terminate the Mexican truck pilot program. DeFazio questions the legal authority of DOT to implement a permanent program. In addition, DeFazio strongly opposes a proposal to use scarce Highway Trust Fund dollars to pay for the Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBR) for Mexican trucks in the program. This proposal would require American taxpayers to subsidize Mexican truck compliance with American safety standards and regulations. This is simply unacceptable. “As I have said before, three issues must be addressed in the cross-border trucking program: safety, security and job loss,” DeFazio said. “I appreciate the Administration’s attempt to address the very serious safety and security concerns surrounding Mexican trucks, and I am glad we are beginning to address the extortionate Mexican tariffs unfairly slapped on American goods. However, taxpayers should not have to foot the bill for the Mexican trucking industry to comply with American safety standards. It is outrageous that we would spend tax dollars to pay for equipment on Mexican trucks; equipment which either the Mexican government or the Mexican carriers themselves should be required to pay. I also question the authority to grant Mexican carriers permanent authority to operate on American roads and highways before a pilot program is complete and the results evaluated.” The full text of the letter is below. March 10, 2011 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood: I am writing to express my serious concern with the Administration’s latest plans to allow Mexican trucking companies to operate long haul in the United States. You are well aware of my opposition to the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) previous attempts to open the U.S.-Mexico border to truck traffic, because of the significant impacts on the safety of our roads and on American jobs. While I was pleased to learn that the Administration was engaging Mexico to begin to lift the arbitrary, excessive, and illegal tariffs that Mexico has imposed on the U.S., after learning the details of the latest negotiations, I am greatly concerned that the Administration is not launching a pilot program, but rather starting the full liberalization of cross-border trucking. I request that you provide me with a written justification of how DOT’s planned program complies with the requirements for pilot programs under section 31315 of title 49, United States Code, as well as various appropriations provisions related to cross border trucking. I also ask that you provide me with the specific legal authority the Department relies on to expend Highway Trust Fund dollars to implement the pilot program and to purchase equipment to be used and retained by Mexican carriers. A true pilot program should grant a discreet number of Mexican carriers the opportunity to operate beyond the commercial zones at the U.S.-Mexico border. The U.S. government would strictly monitor the operations of these carriers, and at the end of the pilot program, suspend any further operations while evaluating the results. Instead, it is my understanding that DOT will grant Mexican carriers the same provisional operating authority it grants any new U.S. motor carrier seeking interstate authority. After 18 months, this authority becomes permanent indefinitely, provided the carrier does not have an egregious safety record or a lapse in insurance. This permanent authority will not be revoked - even if Congress or DOT terminates the pilot program. Further, carriers who participated in the pilot program DOT launched in 2007 will get credit for the number of months they operated in the U.S. when they re-apply under this new program. This means that some carriers will receive permanent authority almost immediately. DOT is required by law to first test granting authority to Mexican carriers under a pilot program that complies with Section 31315 of title 49, United States Code. This section mandates that any pilot program must allow for both a sufficient length of time, not to exceed three years, and adequate participation in order for DOT to evaluate the effects of a pilot program on safety. Granting permanent authority to carriers on a rolling basis, and then granting blanket authority to all participants at the 18-month mark, would seem to exceed your authority under the law. Further, this section requires DOT to immediately revoke the participation of any carrier or driver who fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the pilot program. I question how the Department can fulfill this requirement if carriers have permanent authority once they pass a Compliance Review after 18 months, and are not required to meet any other specific terms and conditions. Further, I understand that Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) inspectors will conduct rigorous oversight of Mexican carriers when they cross the border – for the first three months of the program. After such time, carriers will be subject to scrutiny and inspection at the same rate as carriers who remain in the commercial zone are currently inspected. I fail to see how expanding the areas where uninspected carriers can travel from just the border zones to travel throughout the United States would achieve an equivalent level of safety, as required by law. I also understand that, as outlined in the President’s FY 2012 Budget request, FMCSA plans to use $4.3 million in FY 2012 of its general operating expenses to implement the program. These funds come out of the Highway Trust Fund. FMCSA plans to use some of these funds to purchase Electronic On-Board Recorders (EOBRs) for Mexican carriers, and pay for monitoring. The agency spent $1.25 million on EOBRs for 27 carriers under the previous pilot program – and the Mexican trucking companies were allowed to keep the devices when the program ended. I strongly support the requirement that carriers use EOBRs to demonstrate compliance with hours of service laws, particularly since Mexico does not hold its drivers to the same stringent hours of service standards that apply to U.S. carriers. However, it is outrageous that U.S. truckers, through the fuel tax, will subsidize the cost of doing business for these Mexican carriers. I look forward to your response, and to our continued joint work to ensure the safety of American roads and the preservation of American jobs. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Anne Ferro, Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration The Honorable Ronald Kirk, Ambassador, United States Trade Representative To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “3.10.11 DeFazio questions so-called Mexican truck "pilot" program” from the menu to save the file on your computer. 3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “3.10.11 DeFazio questions so-called Mexican truck "pilot" program” from the menu to save the file on your computer.3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. - 30 -
03.07.2011	Republican-passed budget would kill funds stuck in grant process March 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced a decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to obligate $13.5 million in competitive grant funding to finish repairs on the Coos Bay rail line and restore rail service vital to the coastal economy. The funds got caught up in bureaucratic red tape and DeFazio intervened, asking DOT to expedite the approval process due to the passage of the House Republican budget, H.R. 1, which would cut certain types of unobligated DOT funding, including the Coos Bay grant. “It was essential that DOT fast track this critical grant which will restore service on the Coos Bay rail line. The Republican majority passed a budget eliminating funds waiting for DOT approval, and the Coos Bay rail line could have lost this grant had the process not been expedited,” DeFazio said. “I am happy that DOT cut through the bureaucratic red tape and that Coos Bay can count on this money to improve the rail line to better serve the major employers in the area that depend on it to get their goods to market.” The Coos Bay Line was embargoed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) in September 2007, which resulted in the loss of hundreds of jobs and had negative impacts on businesses in Southwest Oregon. Since CORP embargoed the Coos Bay line, DeFazio has worked with the Port of Coos Bay, and state and local shippers, to get the line reopened. DeFazio testified before the Federal Surface Transportation Board to encourage them to approve the Port’s application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. DeFazio also secured $8 million in federal funds in March 2009, to help the Port of Coos Bay buy the rail line. The Port of Coos Bay applied for a competitive TIGER 2 grant to rehabilitate the Coos Bay Rail Line last summer. The $13.5 million federal grant was awarded to the Port last October and will be matched by $1 million from the Port. DeFazio supported the Port’s TIGER II application and personally called the Secretary of Transportation in support of the application. The TIGER II funds will allow the Port to upgrade the rail line to Track Classification 2 (25 mph) and 3 (40 mph) to improve service and make it possible to operate the train between Coquille and Eugene with only one crew instead of two, allowing the new railroad to move more loads in a more timely and cost-efficient manner. To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “3.7.11 DeFazio announces expedited CORP funds” from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “3.7.11 DeFazio announces expedited CORP funds” from the menu to save the file on your computer.3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. If you have any problems or questions about downloading the feed, please contact Jen Gilbreath at (202) 225-6416. - 30 -
03.03.2011	March 4, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, cautioned the Obama Administration on their announced intention to move forward with a cross-border trucking pilot program. DeFazio issued the following statement: “I am glad a deal has been reached to reduce the extortionate Mexican tariffs unfairly slapped on American goods. Lifting these tariffs will bring needed relief to businesses and farmers in my district. However, I continue to have serious concerns about the safety of Mexican trucks on our roads and the potential loss of American jobs. There are three issues we need to examine around the cross-border trucking program: safety, security and job loss. These issues must be addressed by the Obama administration and the Mexican government before we take any action. Mexico lacks adequate standards for issuing commercial driver’s licenses, hours of service regulations, and drug and alcohol testing. Mexican trucks pose a threat to the safety of our traveling public. I am very concerned that a potential cross-border pilot program will be a one-way ticket for Mexican trucks to come north and threaten the American trucking industry. We can safely bet that American companies won’t go south due to concerns about lawlessness and drug-related crime. If we open our borders to Mexican trucks and give them free range in America, American truckers with a decent family wage will lose work to under- or un-qualified Mexican truckers working for a buck an hour. This could jeopardize hundreds of thousands of American jobs. I eagerly await the opportunity to scrutinize the details of this pilot program and will continue to fight to keep our roads safe and secure, and protect vital American jobs.” BACKGROUND In April 2009, Mexico first announced that it would place tariffs on 90 U.S. export products in retaliation for Congress voting to end the Mexican Cross-Border Trucking Demonstration Program. The tariffs are illegal under NAFTA. DeFazio has led several bi-partisan efforts to end the program in the past four years. Last year, DeFazio led 78 bi-partisan members in sending the Obama administration a letter urging the administration to take action against Mexico’s illegal tariffs. Objection to the program is predominantly due to Mexico’s less stringent regulations on hours-of-service, vehicle safety, and driver training and licensing. Several of the tariffs are aimed at products produced in the districts of Members of Congress who have been actively opposed to the pilot program. DeFazio sent a letter in January 2011 asking Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Chairman John Duncan to hold hearings on the U.S. Department of Transportation Mexican truck concept document released after the first of the year. To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “3.3.11 DeFazio Reacts to Mexican truck announcement” from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “3.3.11 DeFazio Reacts to Mexican truck announcement” from the menu to save the file on your computer.3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. If you have any problems or questions about downloading the feed, please contact Jen Gilbreath at (202) 225-6416. - 30 -
02.24.2011	February 24, 2011 SPRINGFIELD, OR— Today, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced a package of bills that will protect and preserve Social Security at an event attended by seniors in Springfield. DeFazio’s legislation protects the Social Security Trust Fund from being raided, ensures that full Social Security benefits will be available to future generations, and helps seniors adversely affected by a faulty cost of living formula. “We know that Social Security faces future challenges and the Republican majority is threatening it further with talk of privatization or benefit cuts,” DeFazio said. “We can do better. Our seniors deserve better. We need concrete proposals that protect and preserve the security of our seniors. My bills will do that.” The Republican spending plan for the rest of 2011, which DeFazio voted against, cuts the Social Security administrative budget by $1.1 billion. These cuts could easily delay assistance to seniors who need help with their Social Security benefits. In addition, President Obama’s Deficit Commission recommended increasing the retirement age to 69 and reducing benefits as potential “fixes” to Social Security. DeFazio’s bills would ensure the fiscal soundness of Social Security without raising the retirement age or reducing benefits. DeFazio has led the fight to stop the dismantling of senior programs like Social Security and Medicare, including the attempted privatization of Social Security by the Bush Administration and the Republican majority in 2005. DeFazio Social Security Legislation H.R. 796, the Social Security Protection and Truth in Budgeting Act H.R. 796 protects the Social Security Trust Fund from attempts to artificially lower the massive federal deficit by preventing the federal government from raiding the Trust Fund. The bill returns the Trust Fund to its original purpose - paying benefits to the American seniors who paid into it their entire lives. Background DeFazio led the fight to stop the Obama-Republican plan to cut Social Security payroll taxes last fall. The tax cut will expose the Social Security Trust Fund to the deficit laden general fund and forces the federal government to borrow money to make up for the lost revenue. The lost revenue could jeopardize longer term solvency because of Republican refusal to close tax loopholes and revise the tax code. H.R. 797, the No Loopholes in Social Security Taxes Act H.R. 797 preserves the Social Security Trust Fund by closing a tax loophole so millionaires would pay the same percentage of their salaries to Social Security as the average American worker. This will guarantee Social Security remains solvent for at least 75 years. Currently, 94% of Americans pay the Social Security tax on all of their income. The bill subjects all income over $250,000 to the 6.2% Social Security tax rate, making sure that every American pays their fair share. Background As a presidential candidate President Obama stated, with regard to Social Security, “the best way forward is to first look to adjust the cap on the payroll tax… that way we can protect the promise of Social Security without shifting the burden onto seniors.” Obama’s idea for adjustment was to finally apply Social Security payroll taxes to all income above $250,000. The No Loopholes in Social Security Taxes Act would help the President follow through on that campaign promise. H.R. 798, the Consumer Price Index for Elderly Consumers Act H.R. 798 sustains seniors dependent on Social Security by changing the formula used to calculate the COLA. Rather than rely on calculations based on the CPI-W, which uses the average cost of goods that urban working Americans buy, the COLA would use a new CPI-E index. The CPI-E would factor in goods seniors actually buy such as prescription drugs, utility bills and property taxes to calculate the COLA. Over the past two decades, the costs of these essential items have risen by 105%, while the current CPI-W rose by only 90%. Yet, Social Security recipients have not received a COLA the past two years. This bill will make sure that the COLA for seniors truly represents their cost of living. Background DeFazio has continually introduced this legislation since 2007 and had 71 cosponsors last year. - 30 -
02.19.2011	H.R. 767 would interject personal responsibility into the Health Care Law February 18, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) introduced legislation allowing individuals to opt out of the controversial individual mandate in last year’s health reform law that requires most Americans to have health insurance. The legislation gives Americans the opportunity to take personal responsibility for their health care if they object to the government mandate. The bill would allow individuals to opt out of the insurance mandate by signing an “affidavit of personal responsibility” that would waive their right to taxpayer funded medical assistance. In making the choice to opt out, individuals would accept the full cost of their own health care, and not be a burden on taxpayers, medical providers, or other Americans who have purchased insurance. “This is a common-sense fix that may resolve not only the constitutional questions of the individual mandate, but also provides a workable remedy for those who do not want more federal intrusion into their lives,” said DeFazio. “I believe buying insurance should be a choice, not a matter of federal coercion. But with that choice, comes personal responsibility. If someone waives their right to the federal health care backstop, then they alone are burdened with their future healthcare costs.” Under DeFazio’s proposal, anyone required to purchase health insurance who does not already qualify for an exemption can opt-out of the mandate. To do so they must file an “affidavit of personal responsibility” with the state exchange. Such a filing will waive their rights for three years to: 1) the pre-existing conditions protections in the health care reform law; 2) the opportunity to buy insurance in the state exchange; and 3) the ability to discharge medical debt under Chapter 7 bankruptcy It is estimated that every Oregonian who purchases health insurance pays an additional $1400 each year for unreimbursed medical care for the uninsured and the underinsured. DeFazio’s bill would make it difficult for those who opt-out to foist their health care costs onto others, thereby reducing this hidden tax. “No one would be turned away from care because they opted out, but they will take sole responsibility for the cost of that care. The burden will be theirs and theirs alone,” said DeFazio. “This legislation will protect an individual’s freedom to make their own decisions about health insurance, but not let those decisions harm everyone else.” - 30 -
02.17.2011	Reins in unnecessary spending; Ensures Oregon’s South Coast is protected February 16, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed an amendment offered by Rep. Anthony Weiner (N-NY) and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) that restored funding for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which hires police officers and provides for technology to combat drug trafficking and drug usage in communities. In the Republican continuing resolution (CR), the COPS program was slashed by 65%, eliminating 1,300 officer positions and decimating the funding for technology used to combat drug problems in rural communities. The amendment is paid for by reigning in government waste in the NASA Cross Agency Support Account. “We need to preserve essential functions of government that keep all of our communities safe and secure,” said DeFazio. “A cut in COPS would have stretched our woefully understaffed sheriffs in rural communities too thin and exposed these communities to drug traffickers and cartels.” The Cross Agency Support Account at NASA has ballooned from $500 million in FY2007 to $3 billion last year. This account was one of the few that saw an increase under the Republican CR. The account was a bureaucratic fund created for administrative costs rather than scientific innovation. “When a criminal breaks down your door in rural Oregon, you can’t call NASA for help,” said DeFazio. “A better use of these finite federal dollars is to protect our communities.” Since 2005, the South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team (SCINT) has secured an earmark through DeFazio and has received COPS funding to fight the increasing drug epidemic in Coos and Curry Counties. SCINT is funded through grants and provides the necessary resources and manpower to reduce the impact of drugs and drug related violent crimes in the region. “Republicans were ready to dramatically slash the COPS program in favor of NASA’s bureaucratic boondoggle. It’s rare Congress gets the priorities of the nation correct, but passage of this amendment is a boon to the safety of our communities.” To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “2.16.11 DeFazio Reacts to Passage of COPS Amendment” from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “2.16.11 DeFazio Reacts to Passage of COPS Amendmentfrom the menu to save the file on your computer.3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. To access the floor speech on YouTube: 1. Go to the following website: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AC_f0488c2Y If you have any problems or questions about downloading the feed, please contact Jen Gilbreath at (202) 225-6416. --30--
02.11.2011	Program provides relief to Americans affected by lopsided trade agreements February 11, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) condemned Republicans for failing to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program effectively ending needed assistance to over 11,500 Oregonians who have lost jobs because of so-called free trade agreements. The TAA, which expires tomorrow, provides worker retraining scholarships for retraining at community colleges, relocation grants, and services that assist workers in finding a stable living-wage job. “Hard working Americans who lost their jobs because of our trade policies were failed again by the Republican majority,” said DeFazio. “For the past two days, the Republican majority engaged in meaningless debate on a non-binding resolution, while they ignored hundreds of thousands of struggling families displaced by trade agreements. This is unacceptable.” DeFazio has led the fight to stop “job-killing” trade agreements which, despite years of lofty promises from proponents, have led to a mass exodus of U.S. jobs and manufacturing as well as record trade deficits. “On Friday we received word that our trade deficit grew by almost 33% in 2010. These trade agreements have shipped millions of jobs overseas, devastated American manufacturing, deepened the long recession and exploded our trade deficit. We need long term adjustment assistance for those who have shouldered the burden of job-killing trade agreements and we need new trade policies that will put Americans back to work.” Background on TAA The Trade Expansion Act of 1962 created the TAA program to help displaced workers affected by international trade agreements by giving them retraining assistance. Nearly 400,000 American workers affected by trade policies qualified for the TAA in 2010, including 11,500 in Oregon. Republicans abruptly pulled legislation extending the TAA from the schedule on Tuesday, after reportedly wanting to use the benefits as a bargaining chip to further action on the Korean, Panama and Columbian Free Trade Agreements. --30--
02.07.2011	February 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will present three Bronze Star medals February 7, 2011 to U.S. Army veterans who served during World War II. President Roosevelt authorized the Bronze Star medal by Executive Order in 1944 to recognize that U.S. Army ground troops endured great hardships and suffered some of the heaviest losses of the war. One of the Bronze Star medals will be posthumously awarded to Corporal Daniel Adlum. Corporal Adlum served with the 2nd Battalion 162 Infantry Regiment, 41st Infantry Division, from the Pacific Northwest. The 41st Infantry Division served in the Pacific theater of operations in 1943 and was with one of the first U.S. military units to be engaged in offensive ground combat operations with the Japanese. Captain Kyle Akers, the current 2nd officer for the 2/162 Infantry, who served as a Combat Infantryman in Iraq, will assist the Congressman with the presentation. In the last year, Congressman DeFazio has helped 26 World War II veterans in his congressional district receive their Bronze Star medals. Many veterans still do not know they are eligible for the award. Additionally, Congressman DeFazio continues to assist all veterans receive awards they earned while in uniform. World War II U.S. Army veterans or their family members are encouraged to contact Congressman DeFazio’s office to learn more about eligibility information and assistance with military medals. The following veterans will be honored at the ceremony: Bronze Star recipient: Private Don Muller of Springfield Posthumous Bronze Star Award: Patricia Adlum for Corporal Daniel Adlum of Eugene Posthumous Bronze Star Award: Mike Olson for Private First Class Ernest Olson The details of the event are below: What: Bronze Star Medals When: February 7, 2011 10:00 – 10:45 AM Where: Jury Assembly Room Wayne Morse Federal Courthouse 405 E. 8th Ave Eugene ** ALL PRESS MUST GO THROUGH SECURITY TO ENTER THE BUILDING—PHOTO ID REQUIRED ** --30--
02.07.2011	February 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will present two Bronze Star medals February 3, 2011, one posthumously, to U.S. Army veterans for heroic or meritorious service in the European and Pacific Theaters during World War II. He will also present a posthumous Prisoner of War medal to the daughter of a U.S. Army Sergeant who was held prisoner for 26 months during World War II. President Roosevelt authorized the Bronze Star medal by Executive Order in 1944 to recognize that U.S. Army ground troops endured great hardships and suffered some of the heaviest losses of the war. The Prisoner of War medal is awarded to any member of the Armed Forces who is captured and held in combat by hostile forces. Major Travis Lee of the 1/186 Infantry, Oregon National Guard, will assist with the Bronze Star medals presentations. In the last year, Congressman DeFazio has helped 26 qualified World War II veterans in his congressional district receive their Bronze Star medals. Many veterans still do not know they are eligible for the award. Additionally, Congressman DeFazio continues to assist veterans of other wars receive awards they earned while in uniform. World War II U.S. Army veterans or their family members are encouraged to contact Congressman DeFazio’s office to learn more about eligibility information and assistance with military medals. The following veterans will be honored at the ceremony: Bronze Star recipient: Staff Sergeant Robert Monett of Sutherlin Posthumous Bronze Star Award: Ronald Yockim for Corporal Daniel Yockim of Roseburg Posthumous Prisoner of War Medal: Shirley Owens for Sergeant Stanley Tucker of Sutherlin The details of the event are below: What: Bronze Star Medals and Prisoner of War Presentation When: February 3, 2011 1:30 – 2:15 PM Where: Roseburg VA Medical Center Auditorium 913 NW Garden Valley Blvd Roseburg --30--
02.07.2011	February 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) presented a posthumous Bronze Star medal today to the widow of a U.S. Army veteran. The Bronze Star medal is awarded for heroic and meritorious service in the European or Pacific theaters during World War II. President Roosevelt authorized the Bronze Star medal by Executive Order in 1944 to recognize that U.S. Army ground troops endured great hardships and suffered some of the heaviest losses of the war. In the last year, Congressman DeFazio has helped 26 qualified World War II veterans in his congressional district receive their Bronze Star medals. Many veterans do not know they are eligible for the award. Additionally, Congressman DeFazio continues to assist veterans of other wars receive awards they earned while in uniform. World War II U.S. Army veteranswho earned a Combat Infantry Badge or Combat Medic badge are eligible for this special recognition. Veterans and their family members are encouraged to contact Congressman DeFazio’s office to learn more about eligibility information and assistance with military medals. The following veterans were honored at the ceremony: Posthumous Award: Jane Williams for Private First Class Marion Williams of Albany --30--
02.07.2011	February 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will present two Bronze Star medals February 1, 2011, one posthumously, to U.S. Army veterans who served during World War II. The Bronze Star medal is awarded for heroic or meritorious service in the European and Pacific theaters. President Roosevelt authorized the Bronze Star medal by Executive Order in 1944 to recognize that U.S. Army ground troops endured great hardships and suffered some of the heaviest losses of the war. Captain Kyle Ackers of the Oregon Army National Guard will assist with the Bronze Star presentations. In the last year, Congressman DeFazio has helped 26 qualified World War II veterans in his congressional district receive their Bronze Star medals. Many veterans do not know they are eligible for the award. Additionally, Congressman DeFazio continues to assist veterans of other wars receive awards they earned while in uniform. World War II U.S. Army veteranswho earned a Combat Infantry Badge or Combat Medic badge are eligible for this special recognition. Veterans and their family members are encouraged to contact Congressman DeFazio’s office to learn more about eligibility information and assistance with military medals. The following veterans will be honored at the ceremony: Medals recipients: Private First Class Thomas Montgomery of Corvallis Posthumous Award: Silvia Cardwell for Private First Class Peter Roth of Corvallis The details of the event are below: What: Bronze Star Medals When: February 1, 2011 3:00 – 3:45 PM Where: National Guard Armory 1100 NW Kings Blvd. Corvallis --30--
02.01.2011	Proposal to resolve constitutional concerns; people can opt out February 1, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today announced his intention to introduce legislation in response to a federal court ruling against the constitutionality of the health care reform law Congress passed last year. In a letter to his colleagues, DeFazio asked them to support the Personal Responsibility in Health Care Insurance Act, which he plans to introduce in the next few weeks. The bill would allow individuals to opt out of the insurance mandate by signing an “affidavit of personal responsibility” that would waive their right to taxpayer funded medical assistance. This would help resolve the constitutional questions surrounding the individual mandate. “Yesterday’s District Court decision to strike down the entire health care reform law was unnecessary,” wrote DeFazio. “Congress can quickly resolve the issues of constitutionality and the limits of the federal government by reforming the individual mandate with an opt-out clause that allows for full personal responsibility. I believe buying insurance should be a choice, not a matter of federal coercion. But with that choice, comes responsibility.” DeFazio’s legislation is a common sense fix that would resolve constitutional questions about the individual mandate. Individuals that choose to opt-out would agree that any debts incurred because of medical care are theirs and theirs alone. It is estimated that every person who purchases health insurance pays an additional $1400 each year for unreimbursed medical care for the uninsured and the underinsured. DeFazio’s bill would ensure that the burden of unreimbursed care would not be transferred on to taxpayers or healthcare providers. Those who choose to gamble without insurance will pay for their own medical expenses. A copy of the letter is below: A Fair Compromise that Resolves the Constitutional Question of the Individual Mandate Dear Colleague: Yesterday’s Pensacola District Court decision to strike down the entire health care reform law was unnecessary. Congress can quickly resolve the issues of constitutionality and the limits of the federal government by reforming the individual mandate with an opt-out clause that allows for full personal responsibility. I believe buying insurance should be a choice, not a matter of federal coercion. But with that choice comes responsibility. I will soon be introducing the Personal Responsibility in Health Care Insurance Act that creates an opt-out option to the individual health insurance mandate. In making that choice to opt out, Americans should accept the full costs of their own health care, and not be a burden on taxpayers, medical providers, or other Americans who have purchased insurance. In 2008, the uninsured received approximately $45 billion worth of uncompensated care from hospitals, doctors, and other providers, after out-of-pocket payments and government and charity program contributions. Oregon families pay an extra $1400 a year ($1,100 nationally) on higher insurance premiums to cover those who do not have insurance. This is effectively a hidden tax on families and businesses. Under my proposal, anyone required to purchase health insurance and who does not already qualify for an exemption (current law contains religious and low income exemptions) can opt-out of the mandate. To do so they must file an “affidavit of personal responsibility” with the state exchange. Such a filing will waive their rights to: 1) Enroll in a health insurance exchange; 2) Enroll in Medicaid if otherwise made eligible; and 3) Discharge health care related debt under Chapter 7 bankruptcy law. These rights would be restored after the person purchases the minimum level of insurance for at least 5 years without subsides or the benefits of the exchange. This will prevent adverse selection, the ability to buy insurance only when you need it. In the Florida v. HHS ruling yesterday, Judge Vinson opened the door to this fix in Footnote 14: The individual mandate differs from the regulations in Wickard and Raich, for example, in that the individuals being regulated in those cases were engaged in an activity (regardless of whether it could readily be deemed interstate commerce in itself) and each had the choice to discontinue that activity and avoid penalty. See, e.g., Wickard v. Filburn, 317 U.S. 111, 130, 63 S. Ct. 82, 87 L. Ed. 122(1942) (noting Congress “gave the farmer a choice” of several options under the statute). Here, people have no choice but to buy insurance or be penalized. (emphasis added) Secondly, Judge Vinson argues that the individual mandate cannot stretch the Commerce Clause to the point where it has no “outer limits”. Putting aside the arguments for or against this test of the Commerce Clause, adding a personally responsibility opt-out clause provides a direct link to commercial activity (i.e. the exchanges, Medicaid, and bankruptcy) and thus ensures the constitutionality of the health care reform law. Join me in the common-sense fix that resolves not only the constitutional questions of the individual mandate, but also provides a workable remedy for those who do not want more federal intrusion into their lives. If they waive their right to the federal health care backstop, then they alone are burdened with their future healthcare costs. Peter DeFazio Member of Congress - 30 -
01.28.2011	DEFAZIO BLASTS GOP PLAN TO PRIVATIZE MEDICARE Health care costs would skyrocket and seniors would receive reduced services under Republican voucher system January 28, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today blasted GOP proposals to privatize Medicare, increasing costs and uncertainty for millions of Americans. Earlier this month, the Republican leadership passed legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act and to once again allow the worst abuses of the insurance and pharmaceutical industries. DeFazio issued the following statement in response: “Today, Republicans announced that they want to convert Medicare, vital to 40 million Americans, to a voucher system. This is absolutely unacceptable. Last week, they attempted to undo the reforms preventing the insurance industry from discriminating based on preexisting conditions or age, and preventing them from canceling policies when people get sick. Just one week later, Republicans want to push seniors into the private market and mandate they purchase government approved private health insurance, as opposed to Medicare, an incredibly comprehensive health insurance program. Do they really believe that seniors, at their age and with their preexisting conditions are going to be able to purchase a private insurance policy resembling anything like what they get out of Medicare today? Maybe they live in a different world, but I don’t believe it. The health insurance industry is exempt from anti-trust law and they have proved they can and do collude to drive up prices and discriminate against people for a host of conditions to protect their bottom line. Republicans seem to be ready to throw seniors on the mercy of an unregulated insurance market with inadequate vouchers from the government. Vouchers mean more uncertainty, diminished coverage and skyrocketing costs for millions of seniors who need reliable care. I am totally opposed to privatized, ‘voucherized’ Medicare.” DeFazio has led the fight to stop the dismantling of senior health care programs like Social Security and Medicare, including the attempted privatization of Social Security by the Bush Administration and the Republican majority in 2005. To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “https://www.defazio.house.gov/sites/defazio.house.gov/files/migrated/images/stories/GOPPrivatization.mp3 ” from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “https://www.defazio.house.gov/sites/defazio.house.gov/files/migrated/images/stories/GOPPrivatization.mp3 ” from the menu to save the file on your computer.3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. If you have any problems or questions about downloading the feed, please contact Jen Gilbreath at (202) 225-6416. - 30 -
01.27.2011	Commission faults Wall Street greed for economic collapse January 27, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today agreed with many of the conclusions made by the Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission in a report analyzing the 2008 financial crisis which led to millions of Americans losing their jobs, their homes, and their pensions due to Wall Street’s recklessness and greed. The report identified key causes of the economic meltdown. It specifically faulted the deregulation of Wall Street and elimination of critical laws protecting consumers, irresponsible Wall Street greed that gambled with our future, and predatory mortgage lending that took advantage of the most vulnerable Americans. The report also faulted ineffective government oversight which missed key warning signs leading up to the meltdown. DeFazio has long opposed the deregulation of Wall Street and financial services, including the repeal of critical laws like Glass-Steagall that kept Wall Street investment firms from co-mingling with banks. He also opposed the $700 billion Wall Street bailout in 2008 and proposed legislation to require Wall Street to pay for its own bailout. He voted in 2010 for the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which restored some regulations, and is pushing for addition reforms to prevent another speculative bubble and collapse. The following statement was issued by DeFazio following the release of the report. “The findings in this report confirm what I have been saying since the beginning of radical deregulation of Wall Street. Wall Street is incapable of regulating itself. When Wall Street creates a bubble and the bubble bursts, it’s not the guilty parties that suffer, but millions of Americans who lose their jobs, their savings, and their investments. I opposed the deregulation that led to the wild speculation and ultimate collapse of the economy and I voted against the massive taxpayer funded $700 billion Wall Street bailout. We would have been better off if irresponsible firms had failed and received the real market discipline they deserved. Unfortunately, they were bailed out by the American taxpayers and now they are back to their old tricks. We adopted modest regulatory reforms last year which I supported, but they didn’t go far enough due to extreme pressure from Wall Street barons and they need to be strengthened. Unfortunately the new Republican majority is proposing that we let Wall Street regulate itself once again, which sets the stage for the next big bubble that will crash our economy. I continue to be concerned that President Obama is not being well served by his economic team. The president needs an economic team that was not complicit in the deregulation leading to the crash and is willing to take a tough stand on regulating our financial markets to protect the interests of Main Street, rather than Wall Street.” To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “1.27.11 DeFazio Reacts to FCIC Report” from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. Right click on the file entitled “1.27.11 DeFazio Reacts to FCIC Report” from the menu to save the file on your computer.3. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. If you have any problems or questions about downloading the feed, please contact Jen Gilbreath at (202) 225-6416. - 30 -
01.26.2011	January 26, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today responded to President Obama's State of the Union address. Following are DeFazio's remarks: "Americans’ have made clear that their number one priority is the creation of secure family wage jobs, and rightfully so considering that Oregon’s unemployment remains well above 10%. Each $1 billion of Federal transportation investment creates or sustains over 34,000 jobs and $6.2 billion in economic activity. Those are family-wage jobs designing bridges, building roads, and manufacturing American-made buses and streetcars–jobs that can’t be shipped overseas. Investment in infrastructure is one of the few worthwhile uses of deficit spending because the future generations bearing the burden of the cost will benefit from the cost. We cannot win the future, if we do not invest in the future. For two years, I have been pushing for the reauthorization of a comprehensive 6-year transportation bill that would rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges and highways. The time for talk is over. We need to start pouring concrete today. We urgently need investments to create jobs, improve our long term economic viability which makes us more efficient and our businesses more competitive. I didn’t hear that urgency in the president’s speech. However, we can’t create and keep jobs at home unless we drastically change our trade policy. President Obama said tonight that we must focus on both creating family-wage jobs and increasing American competitiveness in the world economy, but then lauded his own efforts to pass a Bush negotiated Korean Free Trade Agreement that continues the same failed trade model as NAFTA. Despite promises to the contrary, these free trade agreements have shipped millions of American jobs overseas, devastated American manufacturing, and deepened the long recession. We need to reverse our trade policies. The American middle class cannot afford to keep shouldering the burden of these 'job killing' agreements and I will fight to stop these disastrous policies from becoming law. I had hoped the president would have been stronger and drawn a line in the sand protecting Social Security and our seniors. Social Security benefits should be off limits when it comes to budget cuts. Social Security did not add one penny to the national debt until the recent payroll tax cut, which now forces the federal government to borrow $112 million to replenish the Social Security Trust Fund for the lost revenue. We cannot jeopardize the future of Social Security with huge cuts as some Republicans have indicated they intend to do. We can get our 'fiscal house in order' as the president said tonight, without cutting essential programs like Social Security and Medicare. I hope that the Republican leadership can also agree to specific and meaningful measures that truly have a hand in decreasing the deficit rather than continuing with their 'Roadmap' to nowhere. Spending cuts alone will not balance the budget. We need tax reform and need to cut tax breaks for industry that ship our jobs overseas. President Obama highlighted the regulation of northwest salmon as an example of bureaucratic inefficiency. The president complained of two different departments regulating salmon when in fact there are at least four departments and several agencies responsible for implementing the laws to protect salmon. The federal government should be able to regulate salmon with less bureaucracy. I agree it’s not necessary and we can do better.” - 30 -
01.20.2011	Congress should now work to pass reform of the individual mandate and strip insurance companies of anti-trust immunity January 20, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted against the repeal of the health care reform bill, instead he is working to reform the law. The law prohibited the worst abuses of the insurance and pharmaceutical industries: no more refusing to cover someone with a preexisting condition, cancelling a policy if the person becomes sick, refusing to cover young adults up to age 26 under their parent’s plans, life time caps on health care coverage or health care coverage exclusions for specific health problems. The repeal bill passed today would eliminate those consumer protections, as well as significant discounts that provide needed relief for seniors falling into the Medicare Prescription Part D “donut hole”. Today’s vote is largely symbolic. Despite House action to repeal the law, the Democratic-controlled Senate is not expected to act on the bill. Repeal of the law would have drastic consequences for DeFazio’s district. It is estimated that repeal would allow insurance companies to deny coverage for up to 316,000 individuals with pre-existing conditions in Southwest Oregon, including up to 36,000 children. In addition, it would restore the Medicare Part D “donut hole” raising prescription drug prices for nearly 15,000 seniors. The repeal would also increase the cost uncompensated care provided by 4th District hospitals by over $43 million annually. Repeal of the healthcare reform bill would also eliminate a hard–fought reform of the Medicare payment formula that improved access to care for Oregon seniors. For decades doctors in Oregon and 17 other states have been underpaid by Medicare. The payments in these states are well below the cost of care, and as a result many physicians simply can’t afford to take on new Medicare patients. At the same time, payments in states like Florida and New York are far above the national average. “The Affordable Care Act increased Medicare payments to doctors in Oregon and 17 other states. As a result, if you are currently on Medicare, you will have more doctors to choose from because of changes I fought for in this bill. Repeal of this would increase drug costs for seniors and restrict access to physicians,” said DeFazio. The Affordable Care Act does need reform. DeFazio has proposed that individuals be allowed to opt out of the insurance mandate by signing a form that would waive their right to any taxpayer funded medical assistance. Individuals opting out of the insurance mandate would agree that any debts incurred because of medical care are theirs and theirs alone. It is estimated that every person who purchases health care pays an additional $1400 each year for unreimbursed medical care for the uninsured and the underinsured. “If Republicans were serious about health care, they would work to reform the law instead of wasting time on a symbolic effort that is just for show,” said DeFazio. “The law is not going to be repealed, so I am focused on reforming key elements of the legislation such as the individual mandate.” In addition to reforming the individual mandate, DeFazio plans to re-introduce legislation that would strip the insurance company of their anti-trust immunity and require the industry to play by the same rules that govern every other industry in the United States, except Major League Baseball. “One of the greatest omissions of the health care reform bill was the repeal of the anti-trust immunity of the insurance industry. Insurance companies can, and do, collude to set prices, restrict coverage, divide markets, and exclude Americans from coverage because of pre-existing conditions,” said DeFazio. “In 2010, the House voted to repeal the anti-trust exemption with 406 votes. It passed with nearly full support of the House then and I believe we could pass it now and bring needed relief to millions of Americans.” The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone could save consumers billions of dollars. - 30 -
01.13.2011	January 13, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) sent a letter to Secretary of the Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki requesting that he intervene and correct a Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH) study concerning the future of the Roseburg Oregon VA Medical Center (RVAMC). The letter states “We are troubled that the VA has spent $400,000 on this independent study that has little value for veterans or taxpayers. Rather it appears BAH worked towards a predetermined conclusion to satisfy the goals of VISN 20.” “Congress has appropriated $57 billion for VA healthcare for 2011 - a 60% increase over four years, yet somehow the VA continues to shortchange veterans in Southwest Oregon. We have fought to stop cuts in service at Roseburg and demanded the VA bureaucrats to think outside the box for the betterment of veterans services,” said DeFazio. “This independent review is missing the big picture and failing to hear the needs of veterans. I appeal to Secretary Shinseki to help the VA get back on track in Southwestern Oregon.” “There are clearly problems with the way the consultants hired by the VA are conducting their study, which may have a major impact on the services veterans in Roseburg receive from their VA healthcare system,” Wyden said. “These concerns cannot be glossed over and the VA owes it to the veterans who rely on this facility to provide a fair and accurate assessment of what effect any changes would have. “The Roseburg VA Hospital is an incredible jewel for the region,” said Merkley. “We need to expand and strengthen this resource, not take away from it. It is my hope that the VA will resolve the issue quickly and ensure that veterans can get the care they need.” The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Eric K. Shinseki Secretary of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, N.W. Washington D.C. 20420 January 13, 2011 Dear Secretary Shinseki: In April of 2010, we asked you to block further service cuts to the Veterans Affairs Roseburg Healthcare System (Roseburg) and to “commission an independent review of any possible changes in services and determine if they would result in veterans not being able to receive needed services.” We are very appreciative that the VA was responsive to our letter. We have been closely following the independent review, but unfortunately the review we had requested appears to be notably off course. We ask that you direct your senior staff to intervene and initiate a mid-course correction because this independent review seems unlikely to provide us the data or analysis we need to protect veterans’ access to healthcare at Roseburg. The failings of the current independent review are numerous and disconcerting. We do not believe Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH), the contractor tasked with the review, has truly assessed the whole picture of Roseburg.Any review begins with understanding where things are today and where they have been. We are dismayed that BAH failed to comprehensively assess the current and historical levels of care at Roseburg. The BAH independent review has not adequately consulted with veterans. The opportunity to comment was provided, but a real review should have dialogued with veterans in a meaningful way.BAH failed to survey veterans who currently use Roseburg to understand their needs and concerns with the current level of service, instead holding small focus groups. BAH also failed to survey veterans who do not currently use Roseburg. The lack of such a survey means BAH has no idea how many veterans are already disenfranchised by the VA, and what corrective actions would restore their confidence in Roseburg. This lack of outreach also means the BAH reliance on the Enrollee Health Care Projection Model (EHCPM) is not supported by any hard facts, merely a statistical model. In a 2008 comprehensive review of the model, RAND stated that “We conclude that the EHCPM is likely to be valid for short-term budget planning but may not be valid for longer-range planning and policy analysis.” Despite this warning, BAH used the EHCPM for long-range planning at Roseburg. Much of the BAH analysis is dependent on their low projections of in-hospital patients, but does not review Roseburg’s continued accessibility challenges. Veterans for years have raised concerns about the excessive wait times and difficulty obtaining appointments to see their primary care doctor at Roseburg. Veterans who finally get to see their doctors and are referred to a specialist start with the appointment delays all over again. We believe any fair analysis of demand should measure the depressed out-patient demand due to Roseburg’s wait times and other barriers. If Roseburg could reverse its trouble with out-patient access how many more vets might consider inpatient services at Roseburg? BAH failed to consider this question. BAH has also failed to address the preferred option of veterans. BAH quickly disregarded the option of restoring Roseburg to a full level II hospital, restoring the ICU unit that many veterans feel is essential to Roseburg to serve the needs of veterans. The refusal to even evaluate this option is not satisfactory In 2010, Congress expanded VA rural health authorities in Title III of S. 1963, the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010. These new authorities do not appear to be considered in this review. Given that Roseburg fills a 600 mile rural void between VAMC facilities in Portland, Oregon and San Francisco, California we believe Roseburg would be an ideal medical center to take advantage of and demonstrate these newer authorities. For example, the law expands the rural healthcare education debt reduction program to help attract specialists. Section 303 permits demonstration projects to examine the feasibility and advisability of alternatives for expanding care for veterans in rural areas. Section 305 boosts travel pay for veterans and permits travel by air if medically necessary. Similarly, Section 306 makes grants to state veterans service agencies and veterans service organizations to provide innovative transportation options to veterans in highly rural areas. Congress was explicit that the VA should be using these tools to improve rural healthcare for veterans, but BAH chose to ignore these options. We are troubled that the VA has spent $400,000 on this independent study that has little value for veterans or taxpayers. Rather it appears BAH worked towards a predetermined conclusion to satisfy the goals of VISN 20. Finally, we are also concerned that many veterans at the December stakeholder meeting were offended by the tone and in at least one case the inappropriate remarks by one BAH consultant.After listening to several veterans express their displeasure with services at Roseburg and presentation by BAH, a consultant reportedly made an inappropriate reference for all to hear. We are appalled. Our veterans deserve nothing but the utmost respect. We are also concerned that the presentation took the form of a lecture about how change is inevitable citing the changes to cars and cell phones over the last 30 years. While it is undoubtedly true that the world changes, veterans do not need to be lectured on the concept of change. They came to hear how Roseburg VAMC will get them the best healthcare, not to hear an elitist lecture. We ask senior staff at VA headquarters to intervene and provide VISN 20 and BAH a clear mandate to resolve the issues raised by this letter and provide a comprehensive assessment detailing how Roseburg can deliver a superior level of quality healthcare to our veterans. They deserve nothing less. Sincerely Peter DeFazioRon WydenJeff Merkley Member of CongressSenatorSenator -- 30 --
01.12.2011	January 12, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC— Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), and Greg Walden (OR-02) received a letter from Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson detailing significant changes to EPA’s regulation of emissions from biomass facilities. DeFazio, Schrader and Walden have worked tirelessly to fix unreasonable regulation of carbon-neutral biomass emissions since the EPA announced the restrictive policies. In the letter, the EPA described three key revisions to its regulation of renewable biomass emissions. The EPA will complete expedited rulemaking to defer the regulation of renewable biomass emissions under the Tailoring Rule for three years During these three years, the EPA will analyze biomass emissions and construct a new system that addresses these emissions sensibly and scientifically The EPA will engage in notice-and-comment rulemaking, allowing the public to comment before final decisions are made to establish the new regulatory system The EPA announcement responds to repeated attempts to ensure the agency treats renewable biomass fairly and scientifically under the Tailoring Rule. DeFazio, Schrader and Walden have led several letters in the U.S. House of Representatives on the topic, the most recent of which was a December letter signed by 32 members of Congress calling on the EPA to modify the Tailoring Rule before being implemented. Without the changes, the members argued “future investment in biomass energy, job creation in rural communities, and our collective renewable energy goals” would be threatened. “This is great news after a tremendous bipartisan effort in pushing the EPA to finally acknowledge that woody biomass is different than coal. This will allow a number of projects to move forward in hard hit Southern Oregon and other rural areas of the state. These projects will create needed jobs and clean renewable energy from biomass. I am very pleased that the federal bureaucrats finally got out of the way and are allowing us to do something that makes an awful lot of sense,” said DeFazio. “Today’s announcement is a real victory and job creator for rural Oregon,” said Schrader. “Renewable biomass not only decreases our dependence on foreign oil, but creates sustainable green energy jobs in rural communities that have been mired in recession for decades. While more work needs to be done to maximize the potential of the renewable biomass industry; this announcement is a strong step in that direction.” “This is a major victory for Oregon jobs and the promising woody biomass industry,” Rep. Walden said. “The EPA was precariously close to enforcing new job-killing regulations, and with the urging of a bipartisan congressional effort, made the right decision in reversing course. Hopefully this three-year reprieve, while very welcome, does not cast a shadow of uncertainty that threatens to curb investment and job creation. I will continue to watch the EPA carefully to ensure that the new economic opportunities that woody biomass offers for rural Oregon has the opportunity to move forward.” Background The Tailoring Rule, a supplement to the Clean Air Act intended to regulate sources of greenhouse gas pollution, was implemented on January 2, 2011. As currently designed, the Tailoring Rule does not distinguish between emissions from biomass facilities and emissions from dirty fossil fuel-burning facilities that rely on coal and oil. Over the last year and a half, the delegation has written several letters and met with administration officials to ensure the Tailoring Rule fairly recognizes the carbon-neutrality of renewable biomass. The EPA had expressed the need to make modifications to the Tailoring Rule that reflect the obvious benefits of using renewable biomass as an energy input instead of fossil fuels. In June 2010, DeFazio, Schrader and Walden led a bipartisan letter signed by more than 60 members of Congress expressing strong concerns over the fact that the Tailoring Rule did not recognize the carbon benefits of renewable biomass utilization. The letter called for a stay of the rule as it applied to biomass facilities until a definitive policy on biomass emissions was developed. The EPA announcement is a major victory for the growing renewable energy sector in Oregon. It provides predictability to businesses that utilize biomass, will help create jobs and move the U.S. toward energy independence. -30-
01.07.2011	January 7, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) yesterday attended a community meeting to discuss the future of the Roseburg Oregon VA Medical Center (RVAMC).The meeting was the first public opportunity for veterans, community members, and public officials to comment on the findings of a study concerning future medical service levels at the RVAMC. The meeting was scheduled by the Veterans’ Administration (VA) and the consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton. It was attended by more than 400 veterans. DeFazio chose to participate in the meeting to hear first-hand the concerns of veterans rather than participate in the largely ceremonial activities on the first day of the congressional session. He later took a red-eye flight to Washington, DC, for regular legislative business of the House. DeFazio was sworn-in by Speaker Boehner first thing on Thursday morning. “I asked for this study to find a way to meet the highest standard of care for our veterans. The recommendations Booz Allen Hamilton put forth do not do that,” said DeFazio. “It is simply unacceptable this plan doesn’t seriously explore long-term plans to provide the highest standard of care for veterans.” “It was clear from the meeting that there are a number of deficiencies with the study and a number of issues should be revisited,” DeFazio continued. “I intend to try and re-direct the VA to do that based on the comments we heard from veterans yesterday.” On April 8, 2010, Congressman DeFazio and Senator Wyden wrote a letter to Secretary of the Veterans’ Affairs Eric Shinseki requesting a suspension of all changes to the Roseburg Oregon VA Medical Center. In the letter, they also asked him to commission an independent study to review the potential changes to the system and the effect they would have on the care provided to local veterans. “Veterans made their voices known today and I urge Booz Allen Hamilton to take their comments into consideration. I will continue to work with Secretary Shinseki to ensure that veterans in Southwestern Oregon receive the top level of care at the Roseburg VA hospital,” DeFazio said. DeFazio invites any veterans and their family and friends in the 4th Congressional District to look at summary of the study, which is available at https://www.visn20.med.va.gov/docs/exec_brief.pdf. Comments are invited. -30-
12.15.2010	December 15, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today participated in a press conference with Max Richtman, Executive Vice President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare (NCPSSM), and other members of Congress to warn that the Senate passed tax cut deal will jeopardize the bedrock of U.S. retirement: the Social Security program. The Senate passed tax cut package would divert $112 billion from the Social Security Trust Fund, with a reduction in the FICA tax under the guise of providing economic stimulus and creating jobs. However, the bill also mandates that the government borrow $112 billion, much of it would likely come from China, to payback the Trust Fund. This sets a dangerous precedent that opens Social Security up to attacks from those seeking to dismantle or privatize it, and is not the type of investment that will create jobs or put people back to work. The following is DeFazio’s statement at today’s press conference. “Today, the U.S. Senate voted to endorse the deal cut by President Obama and the Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, I think it’s a bad deal. It will add $858 billion to our deficit over the next two years. This is done under the premise that these sorts of tax cuts, trickle down tax cuts -- on estates over $10 million, incomes over $250,000, and 100% expensing for wealthy corporations who are sitting on huge piles of cash -- are necessary to put Americans back to work. I think we could have taken many more effective measures at much less cost to put Americans back to work. But, one of the worst aspects of this bill is that it will take $112 billion from the Social Security Trust Fund and require that we borrow money, probably from China, to replace that money to make Social Security whole. It’s the first time in 75 years, since President Roosevelt created Social Security that opponents of the program are poised to undo the New Deal and turn it into a raw deal for America’s seniors, the taxpayers and working men and women. At the end of 2011, the Republicans will insist on extending the payroll tax holiday because the expiration of the holiday would increase taxes on working people. And to pay for the extension, it’s likely they will demand cuts in Social Security benefits. That’s not the kind of security the American people who are dependent upon Social Security, or who will be dependent upon Social Security, need. This is a raw deal for seniors, taxpayers and working men and women. This bill sets a dangerous precedent and I will oppose it."
12.08.2010	December 8. 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Today’s historic meeting, the second in two months between Secretary Salazar and a diverse group of stakeholders, was the result of a process DeFazio initiated earlier this year to break the decades-long stalemate over forest policies in Southwest Oregon. At today’s meeting, the Oregon congressional delegation made it clear they are tired of the gridlock over forest policy and want to see movement on projects to improve forest health in western Oregon and stabilize the economies of timber dependent communities. “The health of the forests and the economies of rural communities in Southwest Oregon are at severe risk. The status quo is unacceptable. The Oregon delegation made it clear today that we are ready and willing to move forward with projects to improve forest health and provide economic certainty for rural communities. If the administration can’t do it in a timely manner, we’ll do it legislatively.” In July 2009, Secretary Salazar administratively withdrew the Western Oregon Plan Revision (WOPR), a plan to dramatically increase logging in western Oregon citing the plan as legally indefensible. At the time, Salazar offered several interim timber sales to provide short-term volume while a longer term solution was worked out. However, many of those sales were challenged and the interim timber supply was inadequate. One year later, in July 2010, the Department of Interior announced a plan to have a plan which was widely panned. In response, DeFazio convened a meeting of stakeholders that included world renowned scientists Jerry Franklin and Norm Johnson who presented a scientifically defensible alternative management process for timber sales to move forward and break the decades-long stalemate. The meeting went well enough that in August DeFazio led the group on a forest tour to look at and discuss alternative management options. The BLM provided funding to allow Franklin and Johnson to design demonstration sites for the forest tour. And in October, Secretary Salazar visited Roseburg at DeFazio’s request to meet with many of today’s meeting participants to hear firsthand the complex challenges facing rural communities in Southwest Oregon. The conversation was constructive and at the conclusion, Secretary Salazar invited the group to DC to continue discussions. Secretary Salazar has stated he is pursuing all administrative options to move the projects forward. However, if it can’t be done administratively in a timely manner, the delegation will legislate to protect the health of the forests, the economies of timber dependent communities, and the industry that relies on those forests. A focus of today’s meeting was the design of two landscape scale pilot projects, one near Roseburg and the other near Medford. The projects, to be implemented over the next year with the assistance of Drs. Franklin and Johnson, are expected to produce a suite of forest health projects that provide ecological benefits to public lands and economic benefits to rural communities in Southwest Oregon.
12.08.2010	December 8, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today announced that he opposes the deal struck yesterday between President Obama and Senate Republicans to extend the Bush tax cuts for millionaires for another two years. DeFazio released the following statement: “President Obama has announced a deal on tax cuts for millionaires with Senate Republicans that will cost average Americans dearly. The Republican demands to extend tax cuts on income above $250,000 a year and to lower taxes on estates over $10 million will add $250 billion over two years to the federal budget deficit. Just think what we could do with $250 billion – we could put it towards our burgeoning deficit, we could fully fund a COLA for seniors for 2 years, we could extend unemployment benefits for an additional 18 months, and still have $100 billion left over to defray the federal deficit or we could take that $100 billion and spend it on transportation and infrastructure investments and put millions of Americans back to work in the private sector in the construction, engineering, manufacturing and related industries. This is a bad deal for the American people. The President has allowed himself to be blackmailed by the Senate Republicans and I will not support it. Compromise requires give and take, but once, again, the middle class gave and the millionaires took.” Radio Actuality: 12.08.10 DeFazio Reacts to Obama Cutting Tax Deal With Republicans
11.30.2010	Below is the video of the meeting in four parts.
11.19.2010	Members of the House Working Trade Group offered the President suggestions to make the South Korean FTA a level playing field that benefits American workers as much as it benefits corporate profits. The President was receptive and understood that prior trade agreements failed to live up to the promises made to the American worker. “I told the President that I will not support another failed free trade agreement that repeats the same mistakes of past agreements,” said DeFazio. “Americans have been promised great benefits from Free Trade Agreements for 20 years, but all they have delivered is outsourcing and trade deficits. Our manufacturing base has been decimated and working men and women are fed up with the one-way trade policies that work for big business and foreign countries but have left Americans behind. We must do better.” “I was pleased the President indicated support for a national manufacturing strategy, but such a strategy should be enacted first and should inform future trade agreements in order to boost U.S. manufacturing rather than ship it overseas,” DeFazio continued. DeFazio has voted against all free trade agreements, including NAFTA and most-favored nation trading status for China. He has called for these agreements to be renegotiated in a manner that protects American jobs and revitalizes America’s manufacturing base.
11.18.2010	“The Republican contention that extended unemployment benefits create a disincentive for people to find work is bunk,” DeFazio said. “These men and women want to work, there just aren’t jobs out there for them.” “Many Republicans prefer an extension of the Bush tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000 a year to stimulate the economy,” DeFazio continued. “Tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000 would cost of 50 times the amount of the unemployment benefits and would not be spent to create jobs to stimulate the economy. But, people receiving unemployment benefits put that money directly into the economy to buy food, gas, and other necessities, helping struggling families make ends meet and providing a much needed boost to local economies.” Oregon has one of the highest rates of unemployment in the country at 10.5 percent. In some counties it is close to 20 percent.
10.19.2010	October 19, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Peter DeFazio called the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Ron Kirk to urge him to enforce the Softwood Lumber Agreement with Canada and to aggressively pursue arbitration should recently initiated talks break down between the two countries. DeFazio said the ongoing lumber trade issue with Canada has Ambassador Kirk’s full attention and he’s confident the Administration will take the appropriate steps to crack down on British Columbia’s illegal wood subsidies. “I told Ambassador Kirk about the recent closure of Swanson’s Glendale facility, which resulted in the loss of 90 family-wage jobs,” DeFazio said. “I explained how efficient the Glendale facility was and how mills like it in my district could compete with any mill in the world if the playing field is level. But they can’t compete when the deck is stacked against them and the U.S. is unwilling to respond to illegal trade barriers with meaningful action.” The softwood lumber dispute between the U.S. and Canada has lingered for more than 20 years. At the heart of the issue is the importation of cheap lumber from Canada into U.S. markets, particularly into the Pacific Northwest. The two countries have signed multiple lumber trade agreements, the most recent of which is the Softwood Lumber Agreement signed in 2006. Under the agreement, the U.S. agreed to terminate the collection of anti-dumping duties on subsidized Canadian softwood. Canada agreed to impose taxes and quantitative restrictions on lumber exports to the United States. Unfortunately, Canadian provinces have repeatedly undercut the agreement. Before 2006, British Columbia (BC) was selling 80-85% of its softwood as Grade 1 “lumber quality” wood and 15% as Grade 4, “non lumber quality” wood. Grade 4 softwood is sold to industry for $0.25/cubic meter - about $10 a truck load – while Grade 1 wood can be sold for many times that cost. For the last three years, BC has sold approximately 50% of its wood as Grade 1 and 50% of its wood as Grade 4. In other words, BC is now selling half of its wood for $0.25/cubic meter. BC says the dramatic increase in cheap wood is due to the beetle infestation, which experts say cannot account for the shift alone. The subsidies have allowed the timber industry in British Columbia to thrive by flooding U.S. markets with cheap wood during a time of low demand and depressed prices. “Mills are closing and hundreds of workers are losing their jobs in my district,” DeFazio said. “Meanwhile, the timber industry in Canada is booming because British Columbia is basically giving wood away to industry for free with illegal subsidies. That’s absolutely unacceptable. We’re getting killed in the trade war and its costing us jobs and infrastructure, which don’t come back once they’re gone. This Administration should use every means at its disposal to protect our industries and family-wage jobs and they can start with Canada’s subsidized lumber imports.” On October 8, the USTR requested formal consultations with Canada, which initiates the dispute settlement process. If the dispute is not resolved in 40 days (mid-November), the U.S. or Canada can request arbitration. DeFazio said he hopes the consultations can resolve the matter quickly, but believes arbitration will likely be necessary. “Ambassador Kirk said the lumber trade issue is priority for the USTR, which is great. But, time is of the essence. The longer this takes, the more jobs we lose. I’m going to continue to put the pressure on this Administration to make sure it fights for a level playing field for U.S. industries.”
10.18.2010	October 18, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC--Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will announce a $13.5 million Department of Transportation grant to fully repair the Coos Bay rail line. The announcement will take place at 5:00 PM at the Former Central Oregon Pacific Rail Yard in Coos Bay. DeFazio will be joined by representatives of the International Port of Coos Bay. The Coos Bay Line was embargoed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) in September 2007, which resulted in the loss of hundreds of jobs and had negative impacts on industrial operations in Southwest Oregon. Since CORP embargoed the Coos Bay line, DeFazio has worked with the Port of Coos Bay, and state and local shippers, to get the line reopened. DeFazio advocated to the Surface Transportation Board to encourage them to approve the Port’s application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. DeFazio also secured $8 million in federal funds in March, 2009, to help the Port of Coos Bay buy the rail line. “This is amazing news for the Port, the state, and businesses in Southwest Oregon. I am pleased to have been able to help save the rail line,” DeFazio said. “This is exactly the type of federal investment we need to put Americans back to work rebuilding our vital infrastructure and improve our long term economic viability. Several major employers in the area depend on the rail line to get their goods to market. The shut down has forced businesses to incur additional transportation costs and caused the loss of hundreds of jobs to local communities.” The Port of Coos Bay applied for a competitive TIGER II grant to rehabilitate the Coos Bay Rail Line in August, 2010. The $13.5 million federal grant will be matched by $1 million from the Port. DeFazio supported the Port’s TIGER II application and personally called the Secretary of Transportation in support of the application. The TIGER II funds will allow the Port to upgrade the rail line to Track Classification 2 (25 mph) and 3 (40 mph) to improve service and make it possible to operate the train with only one crew instead of two, allowing the new railroad to move more loads in a more timely and cost-efficient manner. The Coos Bay rail line could be reopened as early as next Spring.
10.14.2010	October 14, 2010 Today, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will announce a $13.5 million Department of Transportation grant to fully repair the Coos Bay rail line. The announcement will take place at 1:30 PM in the Jury Assembly Room of the Wayne Morse Federal Courthouse. DeFazio will be joined by members of the International Port of Coos Bay, American Bridge, Southport Lumber, Roseburg Forest Products, as well as State Representative Arnie Roblan, Douglas County Commissioner Susan Morgan, and others. The Coos Bay Line was embargoed by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) in September 2007, which resulted in the loss of hundreds of jobs and had negative impacts on industrial operations in Southwest Oregon. Since CORP embargoed the Coos Bay line, DeFazio has worked with the Port of Coos Bay, and state and local shippers, to get the line reopened. DeFazio advocated to the Surface Transportation Board to encourage them to approve the Port’s application to force the sale of the line to the Port from CORP. DeFazio also secured $8 million in federal funds in March, 2009, to help the Port of Coos Bay buy the rail line. “This is amazing news for the Port, the state, and businesses in Southwest Oregon. I am pleased to have been able to help save the rail line,” DeFazio said. “This is exactly the type of federal investment we need to put Americans back to work rebuilding our vital infrastructure. Several major employers in the area depend on the rail line to get their goods to market. The shut down has forced businesses to incur additional transportation costs and caused the loss of hundreds of jobs to local communities.” The Port of Coos Bay applied for a competitive TIGER 2 grant to rehabilitate the Coos Bay Rail Line in August, 2010. The $13.5 million federal grant will be matched by $1 million from the Port. DeFazio supported the Port’s TIGER II application and personally called the Secretary of Transportation in support of the application. The TIGER II funds will allow the Port to upgrade the rail line to Track Classification 2 (25 mph) and 3 (40 mph) to improve service and make it possible to operate the train with only one crew instead of two, allowing the new railroad to move more loads in a more timely and cost-efficient manner. The Coos Bay rail line could be reopened as early as next Spring.
10.13.2010	October 13, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be in Lane County on Thursday, October 14, 2010. At 12:30 pm at RiverBend Pavilion DeFazio will be joined by the Chief Medical Officer for PeaceHealth Dr. Tom Ewing, Dr. Leo Cytrynbaum, and other local doctors and nurses to announce increased Medicare reimbursements for Oregon doctors. For months seniors have been getting conflicting information about the status of Medicare reimbursement rates. Doctors from throughout the Lane County medical community will clarify recent changes and recognize DeFazio’s efforts to secure increased Medicare reimbursement rates, which will improve access to health care for 137,000 seniors on Medicare in Southwest Oregon. Later in the afternoon DeFazio will attend the unveiling of a mural created by students from three Springfield area high schools as a part of the Arts Matter initiative. The mural, located in downtown Springfield, will reflect the city’s history and commemorate its 125th anniversary. DeFazio worked with his colleagues to provide $143,000 in funding for the Arts Matter initiative.
10.11.2010	DEFAZIO TO VISIT BENTON AND LINN COUNTIES WILL ANNOUNCE INCREASED HOSPITAL PAYMENTS FOR GOOD SAM, TOUR MICROPRODUCTS BREAKTHROUGH INSTITUTE, MEET WITH ASOSU, AND TOUR LBCC MECHATRONICS FACILITY October 11, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be in Benton and Linn Counties today, Monday, October 11, 2010. DeFazio will hold a press conference with local doctors at Good Samaritan Hospital in Corvallis to announce increased hospital payments, tour the Microproducts Breakthrough Institute, meet with the ASOSU, and visit the LBCC Mechatronics Program in Albany. DeFazio will begin the day at Good Samaritan Hospital at 9:30 a.m. He will be joined by Dr. Larry Mullins, President/CEO of Samaritan Health Services, and Dr. Kevin Ewanchyna, Chief Medical Officer, to announce increased hospital and physician reimbursement rates under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Good Samaritan will receive $1.18 million in increased payments over two years, and physicians will receive increased Medicare reimbursements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which Congress passed earlier this year. DeFazio threatened to vote against the bill unless increased reimbursements for doctors in Oregon and 16 other under-reimbursed states were included, and they were. DeFazio will then tour the Microproducts Breakthrough Institute (MPI). He will be joined by Oregon State University President Ed Ray and Dean of the College of Engineering Ron Adams. The MPI is a collaborative effort between OSU and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to develop and commercialize microchannel-based technologies for energy, medical, environmental and national security applications. The MPI has brought valuable high-tech research and manufacturing jobs to Corvallis, and stands to bring many more with the future commercialization of its products. In the early afternoon DeFazio will meet with the Associated Students of OSU for a question and answer session. This will give OSU students an opportunity to weigh in on federal policies and ask questions of DeFazio. DeFazio will also talk about recent federal student aid reforms, which he supported, that will help lower the cost of education for students in Oregon. Later on DeFazio will tour the Linn Benton Community College Mechatronics Program. The program certifies students as mechatronics technicians, who troubleshoot, maintain, and repair mechanical equipment that is controlled by computer systems. This kind of equipment is used in a wide variety of applications, from renewable energy to industrial manufacturing. Mechatronics technicians are essential to maintaining a strong manufacturing and industrial base here in America, and LBCC’s mechatronics program trains students to meet this need.
10.10.2010	WILL ANNOUNCE INCREASED HOSPITAL PAYMENTS FOR GOOD SAM, TOUR MICROPRODUCTS BREAKTHROUGH INSTITUTE, MEET WITH ASOSU, AND TOUR LBCC MECHATRONICS FACILITY October 10, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be in Benton and Linn Counties today, Monday, October 11, 2010. DeFazio will hold a press conference with local doctors at Good Samaritan Hospital in Corvallis to announce increased hospital payments, tour the Microproducts Breakthrough Institute, meet with the ASOSU, and visit the LBCC Mechatronics Program in Albany.DeFazio will begin the day at Good Samaritan Hospital at 9:30 a.m. He will be joined by Dr. Larry Mullins, President/CEO of Samaritan Health Services, and Dr. Kevin Ewanchyna, Chief Medical Officer, to announce increased hospital and physician reimbursement rates under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Good Samaritan will receive $1.18 million in increased payments over two years, and physicians will receive increased Medicare reimbursements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which Congress passed earlier this year. DeFazio threatened to vote against the bill unless increased reimbursements for doctors in Oregon and 16 other under-reimbursed states were included, and they were. DeFazio will then tour the Microproducts Breakthrough Institute (MPI). He will be joined by Oregon State University President Ed Ray and Dean of the College of Engineering Ron Adams. The MPI is a collaborative effort between OSU and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to develop and commercialize microchannel-based technologies for energy, medical, environmental and national security applications. The MPI has brought valuable high-tech research and manufacturing jobs to Corvallis, and stands to bring many more with the future commercialization of its products. In the early afternoon DeFazio will meet with the Associated Students of OSU for a question and answer session. This will give OSU students an opportunity to weigh in on federal policies and ask questions of DeFazio. DeFazio will also talk about recent federal student aid reforms, which he supported, that will help lower the cost of education for students in Oregon. Later on DeFazio will tour the Linn Benton Community College Mechatronics Program. The program certifies students as mechatronics technicians, who troubleshoot, maintain, and repair mechanical equipment that is controlled by computer systems. This kind of equipment is used in a wide variety of applications, from renewable energy to industrial manufacturing. Mechatronics technicians are essential to maintaining a strong manufacturing and industrial base here in America, and LBCC’s mechatronics program trains students to meet this need.
10.01.2010	October 1, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be available Monday, October 4, at 10:30 am at the Wayne Morse Federal Courthouse to give an end of session wrap-up as Congress adjourned on Thursday. He will speak with the media about job creation, the Bush tax cuts, his recent vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to crack down on China’s illegal currency manipulation that harms Americans workers and U.S. industry, and provide an update on biomass issues. DeFazio will also be available to answer questions about other pending issues and current events. On Wednesday, DeFazio voted in favor of H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to protect American workers and U.S. industries. The bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by an overwhelming 348-79 vote, closes a loophole in trade law that has allowed Democratic and Republican administrations to avoid confronting China’s illegal currency manipulation that has cost America millions of jobs. DeFazio has been a long-time leader and respected expert on trade policy in the House. This week, DeFazio urged Democratic leadership in the House of Representatives to vote on extending the Bush tax cuts for middle class Americans before adjourning. DeFazio also offered his party’s leadership a compromise on extending tax cuts that would help small businesses and encourage job growth in the U.S. while simultaneously reducing the federal deficit. But Republicans in the House and Senate held the vote hostage over extending tax cuts for millionaires, pushing the issues to a Lame Duck session after the November elections.
10.01.2010	October 1, 2010 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, PolitiFact Oregon, a website devoted to fact-checking political claims, exposed a recent e-mail campaign accusing Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) of supporting a tax on all business transactions as a “Pants on Fire” lie. The e-mail, which has gone viral on the internet, claims DeFazio wants to levy a one percent tax on all financial transactions, including depositing a Social Security check or cashing a paycheck. The email also claims the proposal has the support of President Obama and that DeFazio is planning to “sneak it in after the November election to keep it under the radar.” “This fake email campaign is absolutely false and appears to be politically timed to gin up hysteria before the election,” DeFazio said. “I do not support H.R. 4646, have never cosponsored it or previous versions of the bill, and would strongly oppose it should hell freeze over and it came up for a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives.” H.R. 4646 was introduced in the House by Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA) and would levy a one percent tax on all money transactions. The legislation has no cosponsors and is not going anywhere in Congress. In fact, Rep. Fattah sent a statement to PolitiFact Oregon backing up DeFazio: "There have been many misleading and flat-wrong assertions about my bill, H.R. 4646, the Debt Free America Act. Congressman Peter DeFazio is not a cosponsor of H.R. 4646 and it is completely inaccurate to say he is a proponent of the Debt Free America Act.” DeFazio has introduced a very different bill, H.R. 4191, the Let Wall Street Pay for the Restoration of Main Street Act. DeFazio’s bill would asses a minuscule one-quarter of one percent tax on speculative Wall Street trading and an infinitesimal two hundredth of one percent tax on exotic derivatives. Revenues generated from the tax would be used to pay down the federal deficit and to invest in America’s crumbling infrastructure to create good-paying jobs. This tax is specifically targeted at high volume speculative traders on Wall Street, and would have no impact on average investors and pension funds. Under his bill the speculation tax would be exempted or refunded for tax-favored retirement accounts, mutual funds, education savings accounts, health savings accounts, and the first $100,000 of transactions annually. PolitiFact, which won the Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting for its coverage of the 2008 election, is calling the e-mail campaign against DeFazio “inaccurate” and “ridiculous.”
10.01.2010	October 1, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be available Monday, October 4, at 10:30 am at the Wayne Morse Federal Courthouse to give an end of session wrap-up as Congress adjourned on Thursday. He will speak with the media about job creation, the Bush tax cuts, his recent vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to crack down on China’s illegal currency manipulation that harms Americans workers and U.S. industry, and provide an update on biomass issues. DeFazio will also be available to answer questions about other pending issues and current events. On Wednesday, DeFazio voted in favor of H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to protect American workers and U.S. industries. The bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by an overwhelming 348-79 vote, closes a loophole in trade law that has allowed Democratic and Republican administrations to avoid confronting China’s illegal currency manipulation that has cost America millions of jobs. DeFazio has been a long-time leader and respected expert on trade policy in the House. This week, DeFazio urged Democratic leadership in the House of Representatives to vote on extending the Bush tax cuts for middle class Americans before adjourning. DeFazio also offered his party’s leadership a compromise on extending tax cuts that would help small businesses and encourage job growth in the U.S. while simultaneously reducing the federal deficit. But Republicans in the House and Senate held the vote hostage over extending tax cuts for millionaires, pushing the issues to a Lame Duck session after the November elections.
09.30.2010	September 30, 2010 Today, Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) led a bipartisan letter to Nancy Sutley, the Chairwoman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), supporting the Council’s responsible position on biomass utilization. DeFazio’s letter was signed by nineteen Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Last month, CEQ directed federal agencies to inventory their greenhouse gas emissions and establish reduction targets. While agencies must report on all sources of emissions, the CEQ directive exempts biomass emissions from reduction targets since the Council considers biomass to be carbon-neutral. CEQ’s policy contradicts a recent regulatory rule from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that considers biomass emissions on par with fossil fuel emissions. The EPA appears to be moving forward with rules to regulate facilities that use biomass material to generate heat and power. Not having a clear federal policy on biomass is preventing businesses from making smart investments in clean technology. “The last thing we need right now is more uncertainty to prevent businesses from making investments and hiring workers. If done sustainably and responsibly, biomass utilization can be a carbon-neutral source of energy,” DeFazio said. “Federal agencies should acknowledge this and get on the same page so that we can get biomass material to local facilities to generate clean energy while simultaneously creating jobs.” In the letter, DeFazio calls on CEQ and the EPA to develop a sensible, consistent, scientifically-based policy that recognizes the carbon-neutrality of sustainable biomass sources. “We need a clear policy to responsibly address the challenges of climate change, provide predictability to businesses that utilize biomass, and move the United States towards energy independence,” DeFazio said. Biomass utilization is an important issue in Oregon and the Pacific Northwest. Fuel-reduction and forest health projects on federal lands generate thousands of tons of wood chips, slash, brush, and thinning every year. Current practice is to pile and burn this material in the woods, which is bad for soils and air quality. A better approach would be to produce local, renewable energy with these materials at local facilities. However, businesses are hesitant to invest in the infrastructure needed to transport and process biomass until federal policy is more certain. The full text of the letter is below: Nancy Sutley Chairwoman Council on Environmental Quality 730 Jackson Place, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Chairwoman Sutley: It has come to our attention that the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) solicited public and agency comment on draft guidance titled “Federal Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting.” We are writing to commend CEQ for making a clear distinction in the draft between emissions from biogenic sources -- such as biomass and biofuel -- and fossil fuels. Such a distinction is not only scientifically supported, but is critical to the responsible development of biomass utilization in the United States that can help reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. As you know, the draft guidance calls for federal agencies to report their emissions from the combustion of both biofuel and biomass. However, while agencies must clearly identify and report biogenic emissions, CEQ, at pp. 16-17, makes clear that biogenic emissions: “…are not subject to agency reduction targets at this time. This is because part or all of the carbon in the these fuels comes from carbon that was fixed by biological sources in the recent past, so depending on the full emission impact of biomass production and use, they may not represent a net increase in the atmospheric carbon (since the carbon was removed from the atmosphere while the plant was alive). This contrasts with carbon from fossil fuels, which was removed from the atmosphere millions of years ago, hence its combustion represents a net increase in atmospheric carbon relative to what may have otherwise naturally occurred. The CO2 from biogenic sources is assumed to be naturally “recycled” since the carbon in the biofuel was in the atmosphere before the plant was grown and would have been released normally through decomposition after the plant died.” CEQ’s explanation demonstrates why emissions from biogenic sources should not be included in greenhouse gas reduction targets at this time. If responsible and sustainably utilized, biogenic sources can be a carbon-neutral source of energy. This basic rationale underlies numerous national and international renewable energy policies, including those adopted by the American Clean Energy and Security Act passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in June, 2009. We urge you to maintain this policy in the final Guidelines. Regrettably, not all federal agencies have taken this position. As you are aware, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined not to differentiate between biogenic emission sources and those from fossil fuels in its May 12, 2010, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title 5 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Tailoring Rule (Tailoring Rule). EPA has recently finalized its comment period on a Call for Information seeking public input on appropriate accounting methods for carbon emissions from biogenic sources and how to address these emissions under the Tailoring Rule and the Clean Air Act. We have attached for your information the letter we sent EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson on this issue in response to the Agency’s treatment of emissions from biogenic sources in the Tailoring Rule. President Obama has emphasized that renewable energy derived from feedstocks such as forest biomass hold the key to transitioning the nation to a “sustainable, low carbon energy future.” We urge you to fulfill the President’s vision and work with Administrator Jackson and other federal agency heads to develop a sensible, consistent, scientifically-based policy that recognizes the carbon-neutrality of biogenic sources. Such a policy is crucial to responsibly addressing the challenges of climate change, providing predictability to businesses that utilize biogenic sources, and moving the United States towards energy independence. Again, we commend you and the Council for your leadership on this issue and look forward to working with CEQ on this important issue. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Jo Bonner Michael Michaud Bobby Bright Kurt Schrader Mike McIntyre James Oberstar Bart Stupak Stephanie Herseth Sandlin Cathy McMorris Rodgers David Wu Roscoe Bartlett Mike Ross Norm Dicks Rick Larsen Walter Jones G.K. Butterfield Dan Boren Brian Baird
09.29.2010	September 29, 2010 Today, Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted in favor of H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to protect American workers and U.S. industries. China suppresses the value of its currency, making China’s exports cheaper than they would be if China allowed its currency to be set by the market. The bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by an overwhelming 348-79 vote, closes a loophole in trade law that has allowed Democratic and Republican administrations to avoid cracking down on China’s illegal currency manipulation that favors Chinese exports and harms American workers. “This and past administrations have resisted any action because they fear a trade war with China,” DeFazio said. “But the truth is we are already in a trade war, we are not fighting back, and the American economy is getting pummeled by the Chinese.” Independent economists estimate that trade with China has cost the U.S. 3.5 million jobs. A reevaluation of China’s currency by 20% would create an estimated 300,000 to 700,000 jobs. Existing U.S. trade law allows the Department of Commerce to decline taking action on China’s illegal activity if the Department believes the illegal activity benefits some Americans, such as American tourists in China. The legislation passed by the House and supported by DeFazio would eliminate this nonsensical loophole and directs the administration to weigh the “benefit” of China’s currency manipulation with its devastating impacts to American workers and on the U.S. economy. “I have been fighting weak-kneed Democratic and Republican administrations for a decade to get them to stand up to China and their illegally subsidized exports that are putting millions of middle-class Americans in unemployment lines. Congress is finally taking action,” said DeFazio. “We need jobs and we need them now. This administration needs to wake up, take off the kid gloves, and start doing what’s right for hard-working American families.” When Republicans took control of both Houses of Congress in January, 1995 the U.S. trade deficit with China was $29 billion. In 2006, the last year Congress was controlled by a Republican majority, the trade deficit with China was $234 billion. Republican trade policies from 1995-2006 resulted in an 806% increase in our trade deficit with China.
09.29.2010	September 29, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) will undertake a study of Highway 126W from Eugene to Veneta to identify possible road improvements. ODOT will work with local communities and stakeholders, including the city councils of Veneta and Eugene and the Lane County Board of Commissioners, to develop solutions to the safety and mobility problems along this important Oregon corridor. “Having driven Highway 126W countless times, I am intimately familiar with the congestion and safety problems hundreds of commuters and truckers face everyday. This study will identify the most problematic stretches of 126 between Eugene and Veneta so that ODOT, working with the local communities, can move forward to make the needed improvements in the future,” DeFazio said. Also known as the Florence-Eugene Highway, Highway 126W is a 53-mile principal arterial and designated freight route on the National Highway System. A safe and efficient route between coastal Highway 101 and Interstate 5 is important for regional connectivity, and Highway 126W is a critical link from the coast inland to Lane County and Portland. Highway 126W is also essential for regional tourism, providing access to central coast recreation destinations. The City of Veneta has faced obstacles attracting economic development due to safety and congestion concerns on this narrow, two-lane highway. ODOT data shows an average of 38 crashes per year on this section of Highway 126W between 1994 and 2006, including a total of 14 fatalities. Additionally, a recent corridor study concluded that the segment of the highway between Eugene and Veneta fails to meet mobility standards now, and by 2025 it is likely to become the most congested segment of the corridor if no transportation improvements occur. In a May letter to the Oregon Transportation Commission (OTC), DeFazio encouraged the OTC to undertake the study using unanticipated additional funding from the State’s Federal-aid highway formula funds for fiscal year 2010. The additional funds for Oregon are a direct result of DeFazio’s work on the last surface transportation authorization bill, called SAFETEA-LU. DeFazio is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, which has jurisdiction over federal highway and transit programs.
09.28.2010	September 28, 2010 WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 28, 2010) -- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), Mike Thompson (D-CA) led 23 Members of Congress in asking the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to halt the approval process of AquaBounty genetically engineered (GE) salmon in a letter to FDA Commissioner, Margaret Hamburg. The letter asserts that the FDA should not approve the first GE animal intended for human consumption because of a flawed review process. GE fish pose serious risks to wild populations of fish since millions of farmed fish have escaped into the wild. The House letter lays out four serious concerns to the FDA: the review method being used is seriously deficient; there is a lack of data on whether the GE salmon is safe to eat; irreversible environmental effects are likely; and the FDA is sidestepping its responsibility to consumers by not requiring a label. “The FDA’s hastily completed approval process puts American consumers and the environment at risk. GE salmon could be devastating to fishing and coastal communities, our food source, and already depleted wild salmon populations. The FDA should put the interests and safety of American families and our ocean resources above special interests,” DeFazio said. “We cannot allow the FDA to rush to rubber stamp the approval of a genetically engineered animal before we know what will happen. The risks for our health and for the environment are enormous and irreversible. And once these GE animals are out there, there is no going back,” said Kucinich, who has introduced right to know legislation that would provide a consumer oriented framework for GE plants and animals that includes labeling for GE foods. “FDA’s move to approve GE salmon threatens fishing families across the country, native wild salmon, as well as the millions of federal and state dollars invested to restore salmon populations,” said Thompson.? “Given the current lack of information, threats to human health, the environment and the livelihood of hard working fishing families, it would be irresponsible for the FDA to approve GE salmon.” The letter calls on the FDA to suspend the approval of GE salmon until the agency thoroughly examines and addresses the serious flaws with FDA’s approval process and includes greater public input and scientific data. Click here to see a list of organizations supporting the DeFazio/Kucinich/Thompson letter The full text of the letter is below: Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, M.D. U.S. Food and Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Ave. Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Commissioner Hamburg: We have serious concerns regarding the recent Food and Drug Administration (FDA) process for review and possible approval of the AquaBounty Technologies’ genetically engineered (GE) ‘AquAdvantage’ salmon for sale to consumers. The FDA approval process is inadequate and sets a dangerous precedent: the environmental review is flawed, and the consumer’s right to know is ignored. The Approval Process is Inadequate The FDA’s decision on whether to approve the first GE animal for human consumption will have far-reaching consequences and will influence other pending GE applications awaiting FDA approval. However, the FDA currently has no adequate means to assess the AquAdvantage salmon as a GE animal intended as a human food product. Rather than developing an appropriate evaluation method, the FDA is currently proceeding to approve the GE fish using its process for reviewing a new drug meant for animals. While AquaBounty filed a New Animal Drug application for AquAdvantage salmon with FDA in 2001, the Environmental Assessment compiled by AquaBounty for the FDA is inherently flawed and does not take into account the full and broad range of impacts the approval of the GE salmon could have on the environment. The FDA should have initiated a full Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and consulted with other federal agencies responsible for managing federally listed Endangered Species. The FDA’s decision not to disclose to the public any data relating to environmental, food safety, or efficacy concerns until 10 working days before the public Veterinary Medicine Advisory Committee meeting strongly contradicts the agency’s claim of commitment to transparency. The public’s skepticism of the FDA’s review process for the gene-spliced salmon is magnified by the fact that according to the FDA’s ‘Advisory Committees’ website, it is commonplace to schedule meetings at least two months after their announcement in the Federal Register. However, in this case, the public was given less than a one month notice. Ultimately, the data the FDA provided to the public on food safety is altogether deficient because it is produced by the very corporation seeking approval for its product; not by the FDA or an independent body. Among the most egregious flaws with the data released is that the sample sizes in the company-provided studies on changes in the morphology of the new GE salmon as well as possible allergic reactions, were only 12. These small sample sizes are completely inadequate to use as a basis for a substantive evaluation of the full range of potential health and safety ramifications of releasing these fish for human consumption, especially since they are likely to be raised in a large-scale commercial setting by the tens of thousands and elevated levels of PCBs and dioxin are already documented in farm raised fish. The GE Salmon Raise Significant Environmental Concerns Genetically engineered fish could pose serious risks to wild populations of fish such as the Atlantic salmon, as well as the Coho and Chinook salmon (numerous species of which are currently listed under the Endangered Species Act of 1973). Approval of this GE salmon, especially in light of plans to raise them at an egg hatchery facility on Prince Edward Island, Canada, could jeopardize all remaining wild Atlantic salmon populations. Despite AquaBounty’s claims that its AquAdvantage salmon poses “less risk” to wild salmon populations due to induced sterility, the company acknowledges that 5% of its fish could remain fertile and would therefore be able to mate with wild populations. We believe any approval of GE salmon could represent a serious threat to the survival of native salmon populations. Each year, millions of farmed salmon escape from open-water net pens, outcompeting wild populations for resources and straining ecosystems. For example, a GE salmon that grows twice as fast as natural salmon would reach full size more quickly and easily outcompete natural salmon for food, territory, and reproductive access. Even if grown in contained, land-based facilities, the “farming” of fish raises serious environmental and economic risks, and even indoor ponds typically recirculate water into the environment, providing an escape route for fish or eggs. Research published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences notes that a release of just sixty GE fish into a wild population of 60,000 would lead to the extinction of the wild population in less than 40 fish generations. The FDA must not ignore the lessons from GE crops. Unintended genetic contamination of conventional soybean crops by GE soybeans has been well-documented. The spread and breeding of different varieties of GE canola into areas far from where they were experimentally planted has also been proven. It would now be nearly impossible to eradicate the GE varieties of the crops because of their uncontrollable proliferation. During the approval process, the seed manufacturer offered unenforceable assurances of seed containment that are similar to those being offered by AquaBounty. We must learn from our mistakes instead of repeating them. We object to a federal agency ignoring major environmental issues by exporting the questionable process overseas. According to the application submitted to the FDA, AquaBounty will raise the engineered eggs in a facility on Prince Edward Island in Canada, and then ship those fish to a land-based facility in Panama where the fish will be grown and processed before being shipped worldwide for commercial sale. We are troubled by reports that that the FDA plans to approve the fish if they are raised outside the U.S., effectively encouraging AquaBounty to dump expected environmental problems onto other countries. Doing so sidesteps the FDA’s responsibility to protect public health. The FDA’s Stance on Labeling Undermines Consumer Choice If the FDA chooses to ignore the advice of scientific experts and the will of the public by choosing to approve the genetically altered salmon for public consumption, it must reverse its position that the GE salmon is not “materially” different from natural salmon and require that the product bear a label. A label should not be a substitute for comprehensive risk assessment as Americans have the right to know what they are eating, especially when there are so many unanswered questions about the health effects of consumption and about the impact on the natural salmon species. An informed consumer is the last line of defense against the virtually unchecked ability by the sellers and producers to manipulate the market. The buyer cannot beware if the buyer is not informed. The FDA’s process for review and potential approval of the first genetically engineered animal to be mass-marketed to American consumers has so far raised many more troubling questions than answers. We strongly urge you to immediately suspend your approval process until you thoroughly examine and address the very serious flaws with your process including the need for greater public input and independent scientific data. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Dennis Kucinich Mike Thompson George Miller Peter Welch Lynn Woolsey Jackie Speier Barbara Lee Sam Farr Jerrold Nadler John Garamendi James Moran David Wu Maurice Hinchey Earl Blumenauer Betty McCollum Madeleine Bordallo Raul Grijalva Dennis Moore Donna Christensen Lloyd Doggett Lois Capps Louise Slaughter
09.28.2010	September 28, 2010 Today, Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) and Marcy Kaptur (D- Ohio) offered Democratic leadership a compromise on tax cuts that would help small businesses and encourage job growth in the U.S. DeFazio and Kaptur’s compromise responds to the political impasse over whether tax cuts for wealthy Americans – defined as individuals earning more than $250,000/ year – should be extended or allowed to expire at the end of 2010. DeFazio and Kaptur call for extending tax cuts to small businesses if those businesses can certify they are creating U.S. jobs or directly benefiting U.S. industries. Small businesses would seek certification by meeting some common sense standards for the tax year including: hiring only American citizens; using American-made inputs; being headquartered in the United States; not outsourcing American jobs; and not manufacturing abroad. “The hedge fund trader who makes $2 billion a year speculating on Wall Street or the corporation sending American jobs overseas shouldn’t be rewarded with a tax break,” DeFazio said. “But, the small business investing in the U.S. economy and putting Americans back to work should be rewarded. This is a pragmatic and common sense solution that will incentivize job creation here at home while reducing the overall cost of extending the Bush tax cuts.” DeFazio and Kaptur point out that only two to three percent of small businesses pay taxes in the top two tax brackets, so a limited extension of the top tax brackets would have minimal impact on the federal deficit. The full text of the letter is below: September 28, 2010 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi: We are very concerned about the cost of extending the 2001 tax cuts for the top two tax brackets because any extension makes the projected $1.3 trillion federal deficit for 2010 even more difficult to close. Extending these tax cuts will add another $600 billion gap over the next ten years. We offer a compromise that will drive down the cost of extending the tax cuts and promote more effective job creation than the extension of tax cuts for the top two tax brackets. We suggest extending the 2001 tax cuts for small business income subject to the top two tax brackets if the small businesses can certify they are manufacturing in the U.S., only hiring American citizens, and buying domestic content. We believe small businesses acting in the best interests of our nation should be rewarded. Companies that send jobs overseas or hire temporary foreign workers in lieu of U.S. citizens can continue to do so, but they should not benefit from a costly tax cut extension during record deficits. Small businesses would seek certification by meeting some common sense standards for the tax year including: - the small business should be headquartered in the United States; - manufacturing should be done in the United States; - manufacturing uses at least 75% domestic content; - the small business verifies its workers using E-Verify; - the small business does not use any temporary Visas; and - the small business has not outsourced any labor or manufacturing overseas. Examples of the typical company that could receive a lower tax rate are: - a software company based in the United States that does not outsource its programmers or use H-1B visas to bring cheaper foreign programmers to the U.S.; - a bicycle manufacture that uses domestic content and assembles its products in the U.S.; - a chicken producer that does not use H-2A visa workers; - a solar panel installer that uses U.S. manufactured solar panels; - a tanning salon that verifies its workers using E-Verify; - a timber company does not hires H-2B visa forestry workers; and - a call center based in the United States that does not outsource its employees. These are examples of patriotic companies that boost our economy by employing U.S citizens and using domestic content. If we extend the upper tax brackets to anyone, small businesses that create American jobs and use American materials are the one who should benefit. The cost to do so would be minimal because only 2 to 3 percent of small businesses even pay taxes in the top two tax brackets, so a limited extension would have minimal impact to the deficit. We are appreciative of your leadership and support in passing several “Make it in America” bills. We see this compromise as an extension of those values that Democrats can be proud of. Sincerely, PETER DEFAZIO, Member of Congress MARCY KAPTUR, Member of Congress
09.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) on Friday sent a letter to the Department of Labor’s Acting Inspector General, Daniel Petrole, requesting a review of the use of foreign workers on several Forest Service contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), or so-called stimulus funds. The Bend Bulletin recently reported that several companies that were awarded Forest Service contracts funded by ARRA filed H-2B applications to use foreign workers for the contracts. Federal regulations require that employers who file H-2B petitions must include a certification from the Department of Labor stating that qualified workers are not available in the U.S. and that the foreign workers employment will not adversely affect wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers. “Oregonians have been logging our forest for over a century. Our workforce is among the best in the world,” DeFazio said. “I find it hard to believe that federal contractors paying prevailing wages cannot find Oregonians to take these forestry jobs. Rural Oregon has suffered from long-term unemployment of well above 20%. There is no excuse to not be hiring these hard working Americans in the current recession. We cannot allow U.S. companies to abuse immigration laws to undercut American workers.” A copy of DeFazio’s letter to the Inspector General follows: September 3, 2010 Daniel R. Petrole, Deputy Inspector General, Acting Inspector General Office of Inspector General 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Room S-5502 Washington, DC 20210 Telephone: (202) 693-5100 Dear Inspector General Petrole: I was very concerned to read a recent Bend Bulletin article highlighting possible H-2B Visa irregularities related to Forest Service contacts in central Oregon funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act [ see Foreigners snag forest stimulus jobs. Keith Chu. The Bend Bulletin. July 25, 2010.] As you know, federal regulations require that employers who file H-2B petitions must include a certification from the Department of Labor stating that qualified workers are not available in the U.S. and that the foreign worker’s employment will not adversely affect wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers. I find it hard to believe that federal contractors paying prevailing wages in rural Oregon which has suffered from long-term double digit unemployment cannot find Oregonians to take these forestry jobs. I also find it illogical to allow federal contractors to “self attest” that they could not hire Oregonians to perform this work. As such, I ask that you review the Department of Labor’s certification of these the H-2B applications in question and review the H-2B applications submitted by these companies for any improprieties. The Bend Bulletin identified two local forestry companies who easily dispelled the myth that Americans are were not available. • Mike Wheelock, owner of Grayback Forestry said “Right now, if I put an ad in, I could get anywhere from 200 to 400 applications from local workers.” • Darst Atherly owner of Atherly Contracting in Bend and Burns, said “I get three to five calls a week from people seeking employment, despite having no ads and despite telling people I’m not hiring.” We should not underestimate the motivation for using the H-2B Visa to undercut the competition. According to the Bend Bulletin article, Mr. Atherly was outbid by 50 percent on a recent federal contract by a competitor using foreign labor. We cannot let U.S companies abuse the immigration laws of our nation to undercut their lawful competitors or American workers. Oregonians have been logging for over a century and in the current recession there is no excuse to not be hiring these hard working Americans. Sincerely, PETER A. DEFAZIO Member of Congress
09.02.2010	September 2, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the House Commission on Congressional Mailing Standards dismissed the Lane County Republican Party (LCRP) complaint about his congressional mailings. The bi-partisan Commission notified the LCRP in a letter stating the Commission found no violation of the franking law occurred and, therefore, dismissed the complaint. On August 16th, the LCRP filed a complaint with the House Franking Commission alleging DeFazio had violated House rules by sending out mass communications within 90 days of an election, while seeking the endorsement of the Independent Party of Oregon (IPO). For the first time this year, Oregon became one of several states to permit “cross-nomination.” This process allows a candidate to appear on the general election ballot as the nominee of more than one political party. In July, the Independent Party conducted an internal on-line party nomination process to select general election nominees. The LCRP complaint alleged that the on-line selection process constituted an official election under state law. However, according to the Franking Commission, it has consistently treated only official State-conducted elections and State-issued ballots as triggering the application of the 90-day cut-off rule. DeFazio’s response to the complaint included a letter from the Director of Elections in the Oregon Secretary of State’s office who stated, “This election was not administrated by the Oregon Secretary of State, and was not in any way an official election. These are not considered elections under Oregon election law, as the state only conducts primary elections for the two major parties.” Under Oregon state law and House rules, the Independent Party’s on-line nominating process is a purely internal party nominating process and is not subject to the 90-day cut-off. “The IPO process was unique and unprecedented. As a result, there was a lot of confusion around it,” DeFazio said. “I have always strived to live up to the highest ethical standards and I appreciate the Commission’s quick dispatch addressing the concerns raised by the Lane County Republicans.” A copy of the letter can be found at: https://www.defazio.house.gov/sites/defazio.house.gov/files/migrated/images/stories/FINAL_--_Commission_letter_dismissing_complaint_against_DeFazio.pdf
09.01.2010	September 1, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today praised the announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) that Tri-Met and Oregon Iron Works (OIW)/United Streetcar will receive an additional $1 million for fiscal year 2010 to continue work on the first U.S. made streetcar in more than 58 years. Clackamas-based Oregon Iron Works Inc., whose subsidiary, United Streetcar LLC, is the only U.S.-based manufacturer of modern streetcars, will use these funds to help complete installation and certification of a U.S. propulsion system which accounts for about 20% of a streetcar’s cost thereby bringing their “Made in USA” streetcar to 90% domestic content. These funds will also assist in development of a hybrid wireless streetcar design using the latest advancements in US technology. These enhancements in technology will help further Portland’s credentials as the nation’s domestic leader in production and utilization of the modern streetcar. The city already has one of the first modern streetcar systems in America with several lines in use or development. “This grant will help unlock new aspects of the growing streetcar market for OIW/United Streetcar, creating even more family-wage jobs here in Oregon and helping to revitalize our critical manufacturing sector,” DeFazio said. “This is exactly the type of investment the federal government should be making to help grow our economy now and improve our economic viability in the long-term.” In 2005, DeFazio included language in a transportation funding bill called SAFETEA-LU, that directed $1 million annually to Tri-Met for the purchase and deployment of a domestically manufactured streetcar. That competitive contract was won by OIW in Clackamas. The $4 million included in SAFETEA-LU and subsequent federal grants have been used by OIW/United Streetcar to construct a prototype streetcar that will be used in Portland and become a model for streetcar projects across the U.S. More than 80 cities currently have plans to build streetcar lines. This industry will create family wage jobs for Oregon workers, and help revitalize the U.S. manufacturing industry across the United States where United Streetcar already has component vendors in over twenty states. “We are extremely grateful to Congressman DeFazio’s vision that allowed a brand new green industry to be created,” said Chandra Brown, President of United Streetcar. “The unwavering support from the Oregon congressional delegation and the administration has been key to the success of the streetcar. These additional funds will allow us to advance our modern streetcar and incorporate the latest in US technology.” As the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit that will write the next six year surface transportation authorization bill, DeFazio is working to craft a bill that will move our transportation system into the future by promoting alternative transportation and public transit programs like streetcars to help get people out of their cars, improve efficiency, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
08.31.2010	CONTINUES TO WORK FOR CONSENSUS ON FOREST MANAGEMENT August 31, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-04) on Friday led a field tour of federal forests managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) near Roseburg. DeFazio helped organize the tour to encourage dialogue between federal agencies, the timber industry, and environmental groups on the future of managing federal forests in western Oregon. Approximately 50 stakeholders, community members, federal and state agency heads, and Obama administration officials attended. In July, 2009 Interior Secretary Salazar administratively withdrew the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR), aimed at dramatically increasing logging on 2.6 million acres of federal forests. Salazar promised to supply an interim supply of timber to timber-dependent communities as the Obama administration worked on a long-term forest plan to replace WOPR. To date, the BLM has struggled to produce the interim timber supply needed to sustain rural jobs and the timber infrastructure that supports rural communities. The Medford and Roseburg BLM districts, which typically supply much of the wood for mills from Roseburg to the California border, have only generated 10-15% of the volume promised by Secretary Salazar in 2009. DeFazio convened a meeting in Springfield in early July to discuss ideas for developing a productive and responsible forest management plan for western Oregon. BLM managers, representatives of the timber industry, environmental activists, and scientists Norm Johnson (Oregon State University) and Jerry Franklin (University of Washington) participated in the meeting. The July group agreed to participate in a forest field tour to look at various scientific-based forest management strategies backed by Johnson and Franklin. “The status quo is unacceptable,” DeFazio said. “Hundreds of thousands of acres of federal forests in western Oregon are unhealthy and need responsible management. Rural communities are losing infrastructure, jobs, and hope. We’ve got to do better. Restoring our public forests would create much needed jobs, provide economic certainty for timber-dependent communities and improve the health of the forests.” DeFazio said there were multiple goals of Friday’s tour: “It’s one thing to sit around a table in an air-conditioned room talking about forest policy, but it’s more important and constructive to get people in the woods to look at what’s possible, try to agree and what we want the forests to look like, and then we can roll up our sleeves and figure out how to get there.” “We’ve got to get people involved in forest management,” continued DeFazio. “These are public forests, we all own them and should have a say in how they’re managed. I wanted people to come out and ask questions, challenge the experts, and decide for themselves how public lands should be managed. That’s exactly what happened on Friday. There were challenging questions and a constructive dialogue between participants. This is a complicated and often divisive issue. But I see an opportunity. I think Oregonians are getting pretty frustrated by the false starts and broken promises.” DeFazio has been an outspoken critic of President Clinton’s Northwest Forest Plan, which went into effect in 1994. At the time, DeFazio argued the plan would not protect the remaining old growth in the Pacific Northwest leading to more costly and time consuming litigation and would fail to offer a predictable supply of timber to timber-dependent communities. To date, the Northwest Forest Plan has never reached predicted levels of timber volume and much of the Northwest’s forest policy has been dictated by federal judges. Since the mid-1990s, DeFazio has offered an alternative to the Northwest Forest Plan, but the plan was been rejected by the timber industry and environmentalists. He continues to offer a compromise plan he says will increase the timber supply while simultaneously protecting Oregon’s old growth. While DeFazio said he doesn’t expect a resolution at this time, “this meeting is a key step in bringing an understanding about desired outcomes between key stakeholder groups.”
08.25.2010	COMMENTS ON SOCIAL SECURITY OUTRAGEOUS August 25, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today urged President Barack Obama to dismiss a co-chairman of a White House advisory commission on budget deficits who compared Social Security to "a milk cow with 310 million tits." Citing the “insulting” remarks by former Sen. Alan K. Simpson, DeFazio and Sanders asked the president to remove Simpson from the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, which is charged with making recommendations on federal budget deficits that could affect Social Security. “While there are honest differences of opinion as to how best to tackle this growing problem, we should all be in agreement that everyone working in this area – especially someone in as important a position as the co-chair of your National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform – has a responsibility to be as serious, deliberate, and sober as the challenges we face,” they wrote in a letter to the president. Simpson’s remark was included in an e-mail to the director of Older Women’s League. “I’ve made some plenty smart cracks about people on Social Security who milk it to the last degree,” the former Wyoming senator wrote to Ashley Carson. “You know ’em too. It’s the same with any system in America. We’ve reached a point now where it’s like a milk cow with 310 million tits!” DeFazio and Sanders called the comments “beyond comprehension” and “demeaning” to the senior citizens, the disabled, widows and orphans who depend on Social Security. “Despite the many years of distinguished public service former Senator Simpson has dedicated to this country, his recent e-mail indicates that it is no longer appropriate for him to serve on the bi-partisan deficit reduction commission,” DeFazio and Sanders wrote. “Therefore, in order for your commission’s recommendations to have credibility with Congress, we respectfully urge you to remove Senator Simpson from the commission.” Referring to the $13 trillion national debt, DeFazio and Sanders told the president that they look forward to working with him on ways to address “serious long-term fiscal challenges that require thoughtful and difficult solutions.” As leading defenders of Social Security in Congress, they underscored that Social Security is strong and stable. “Let’s be clear: Social Security is not going bankrupt, nor has it contributed one dime to the federal deficit. For 75 years, through good times and bad, Social Security has paid out every benefit owed to every eligible Americans and will continue to pay 100 percent of those benefits through 2037, according to the Social Security Board of Trustees, and until 2039, according to the Congressional Budget Office. In fact, the Social Security Trust Fund today has a $2.5 trillion dollar surplus which is projected to grow to more than $4 trillion by the year 2023.” DeFazio and Sanders also noted that Social Security provides the majority of income for two-thirds of the nation’s elderly and, for one-third, it provides nearly all their income. In an Aug. 6 letter to the deficit commission, DeFazio and Sanders urged the panel to reject proposals to raise the Social Security retirement age to 70. To hear DeFazio speak about the issue, clikc below: 08.25.10 DeFazio on protecting Social Security from cuts
08.20.2010	August 20, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio today lashed out at the Obama Administration saying the Administration’s policies to protect and create jobs in Oregon’s timber dependent communities are failing rural Oregonians. DeFazio’s statement was in response to today’s announcement by the Swanson Group that it is indefinitely closing its Glendale sawmill. DeFazio pointed to the failure of the Obama Administration to offer a meaningful forest management plan to create family-wage jobs and improve forest health, and failed trade agreements that have shipped millions of jobs overseas and undermined domestic industries as contributing to today’s announced closure. More than a year after Secretary Salazar administratively withdrew the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR) to increase logging on BLM lands in Western Oregon, timber volume in Southwest Oregon has come to a screeching halt. With two weeks before the end of the current fiscal year, the Medford BLM District has sold only 2.2 million board feet of timber, approximately 10% of the volume promised by Secretary Salazar when he withdrew WOPR. The loss in supply of timber from public lands has forced local mills to lay off workers, cut hours, and even close their doors. Timber-dependent communities in Southwest Oregon have also suffered from poorly enforced trade agreements supported by the Bush and Obama administrations. The U.S.-Canada Softwood Lumber Trade Agreement, signed in 2006 by the Bush Administration and designed to reduce imports of heavily subsidized Canadian softwood lumber to Northwest markets, has gone largely unenforced. Canada began violating the agreement before the ink of the agreement was dry and the U.S. has responded with little or no enforcement. The result has been reduced U.S. production, mill closures and the loss of infrastructure, and losses of thousands of family-wage jobs. “The Obama Administration’s policies to protect and create jobs in rural Southwest Oregon have been total failures. Period,” DeFazio said. “We were promised a predictable supply of timber over a year ago to keep Oregonians working in the woods and to preserve the infrastructure. We haven’t seen it. We were promised a long-term forest management plan for Western Oregon to replace WOPR. Instead, we got a plan to have a plan from the BLM Task Force last month. And to add insult to injury, the administration is supporting trade policies that are undermining American industries. My constituents are losing their jobs due to these policies.” The Obama Administration’s proposed budget for next year would cut 10% from the Oregon Bureau of Land Management budget. This cut would severely impact the ability of the BLM to move forward with responsible timber projects in the coming year as well as restrict the agency’s ability to develop a long-term forest management plan. However, DeFazio is confident he will be able to secure level funding for the Oregon BLM budget for next year in the Interior Appropriations bill. “It’s not clear to me how you can make promises to have a predictable supply of timber and a meaningful long-term plan on the one hand, and call for budget cuts on the other hand,” DeFazio continued. “Timber-dependent communities are tired of getting jerked around. Fortunately, I have been able to work closely with Chairman Moran to restore needed funding for next year in the House Interior Appropriations bill to complete plans and provide timber to prevent further mill closures and layoffs.” Last week, DeFazio also sent a bipartisan letter to the Committee on House Administration to register the “Congressional Caucus on Lumber.” The Caucus would consist of a bipartisan group of Members dedicated to enforcing trade agreements like the U.S.- Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement and promoting fair trade and a level playing field as it relates to wood products. DeFazio will serve as a Co-Chair with Rep. Walter Jones, (R- NC), Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA), and Rep. Michael Michaud (D-ME). The coalition will seek membership after Congress returns from the August district work period. “The Canada softwood issue is just another sad example of how we’re losing the trade war,” DeFazio said. “The illegal flow of highly subsidized softwood lumber from Canada into U.S. markets is costing us jobs, infrastructure, and devastating rural communities. But instead of standing up for American workers in the wood products industry, the Obama Administration is sitting on its hands. This caucus is about using our voice and vote in Congress to stand up for the millions of workers who stand to lose their jobs and livelihoods unless our trade policies change.” -30-
08.16.2010	August 16, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) released a letter today to President Obama highlighting a great opportunity to redirect and refocus his economic policies on job creation for working Americans.The letter asks the president to nominate a chair of the Council of Economic Advisors who will champion a bold new course to address the desperation working class Americans feel today. DeFazio was joined by 35 other Members of Congress. Key passages: Working Americans are angry over the current state of the economy and the lack of job opportunities for middle class families.Wall Street has recovered nicely, but Main Street has not. We ask that you nominate a chair of the Council of Economic Advisors who will champion a bold new course to address the desperation working class Americans feel today. A successful nominee to the Council of Economic Advisors will understand that current U.S. trade policies are stifling the economic recovery by pushing working class jobs overseas. Your nominee should also value the benefits of investing in infrastructure. Currently, the U.S. invests less than one percent of our GDP in infrastructure, while China, our largest economic competitor, invests the equivalent of nine percent of its GDP. Finally, we think a nominee should understand that small businesses are best positioned to pull us through this economic downturn. We believe a voice for the working class of America within your economic team will signal an important change in how Democrats will resolve the current economic downturn. A copy of the full text of the letter is below: August 16, 2010 The President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: Working Americans are angry over the current state of the economy and the lack of job opportunities for middle class families.Wall Street has recovered nicely, but Main Street has not.With the chair of the Council of Economic Advisers suddenly vacant, you have a great opportunity to redirect and refocus your economic policies on job creation for working Americans.It is important to refocus now because the economic impact of the stimulus is beginning to wane, and will lead to minimal job creation in 2011 and beyond. We ask that you nominate a Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors who will champion a bold new course to address the desperation working class Americans feel today.As you know, the latest unemployment report is dismal. But the jobless recovery is actually much worse and Americans are growing more pessimistic by the day. The Bureau of Labor Statistics unemployment rate fails to count those who can only find part time work or who have altogether given up looking for work. When including those two subgroups, the real unemployment rate is 18.3 percent and significantly higher in rural areas. Every spouse, sibling, parent, and neighbor of those 18.3 percent is rightfully questioning our job performance to date. The non partisan Brookings Institution has identified another measure - the jobs gap – which is the number of jobs the economy needs to create to return to pre-recession employment levels while also absorbing the 125,000 people who typically enter the labor force each month. Currently that gap stands at 11.6 million and it will take more than two decades to fully recover if the dismal private sector job growth of July is the best we can do. Even with vibrant job growth comparable to the late 1990s, it would still take 5 years to recover. Like you, we read the mail from our constituents and listen carefully at town hall meetings.People are pessimistic, frustrated, even scared of the future. Gallup's Economic Confidence Index has not substantially improved for a year and a half and still remains deep in negative territory.The Wells Fargo/Gallup Small Business Index -- which measures small-business owners' perceptions of the current economy and future expectations fell to -28 in July, the lowest level ever.We believe the American electorate needs to see an adjustment in our economic policies that charts a new course for substantial job creation. A successful nominee to the Council of Economic Advisors will understand that current U.S. trade policies are stifling the economic recovery by pushing working class jobs overseas.The growing trade deficits with China and Mexico clearly show the exodus of our manufacturing base overseas.The free trade agreements of past administrations have opened up our markets to foreign goods, but have not opened up foreign markets for the U.S. worker to compete. Your nominee should also value the benefits of investing in infrastructure. Currently, the U.S. invests less than one percent of our GDP in infrastructure, while China, our largest economic competitor, invests the equivalent of nine percent of its GDP.We are struggling to maintain our highways, bridges, and transit systems, drinking water, waste treatment plants, energy grids, and telecommunications networks. Our lack of investment undercuts our productivity, accelerates the erosion of our manufacturing base, and compromises our economic competiveness.We also seek a nominee who can help formulate a U.S. manufacturing strategy to capitalize on our research, innovation, and skilled workforce with a manufacturing revitalization and maintain critical defense capacity and other critical infrastructure. Finally, we think a nominee should understand that small businesses are best positioned to pull us through this economic downturn. They must understand that contrived special interest demands from corporate America cannot be substituted for real help for small businesses.Wide-ranging tax cuts for big businesses do not create jobs, but lending to small businesses on fair terms does. We believe a voice for the working class of America within your economic team will signal an important change in how Democrats will resolve the current economic downturn. Despite the massive federal intervention to date and a resurgent Wall Street, the jobless recovery will continue for the long-term.Bringing a new focus to the working class is essential to the long-term success of our nation and the Democratic agenda. Sincerely Peter DeFazio, Marcy Kaptur, Jan Schakowsky, Michael Michaud, Bruce Braley, Jim McDermott, Leonard Boswell, Lois Capps, Mazie Hirono, Michael Arcuri, John Boccieri, John Yarmuth, Phil Hare, Paul Tonko, Louise Slaughter, John Hall, Steve Kagen, David Wu, Zack Space, Bill Pascrell, Alcee Hastings, Betty Sutton, George Miller, Lynn Woolsey, Maurice Hinchey, Joe Baca, John Garamendi, Russ Carnahan, Daniel Lipinski, Dennis Cardoza, Eleanor Holmes Norton; Hank Johnson; John Conyers; Judy Chu; Rosa DeLauro; Dennis Kucinich
08.11.2010	August 11, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner urging him to withhold any more taxpayer funds from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac until they prioritize taxpayers over the banks. Since 2008 the taxpayers have spent over $148 billion to keep Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac financially viable following the housing market collapse. “Enough is enough,” DeFazio said. “Taxpayers have repeatedly shouldered the burden for the reckless loans made by banks long before this latest request.” In June, DeFazio sent a letter to the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, raising concern that banks are refusing to take back failed loans from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Banks are contractually obligated to take back any mortgage that does not comply with federal lending standards. Compelling banks to take their bad loans back from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac protects the taxpayer from more losses. Following larger than expected second quarter losses, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac recently asked taxpayers for an additional $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. In today’s letter, DeFazio urges Treasury to withhold any new payments until Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac take all possible legal action to reduce their loan losses. “Taxpayers should not again be asked to invest in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac when the large banks have not taken back their shoddy failed mortgages,” DeFazio said. “Where is the common sense in this when we’re dealing with record deficits?” The full text of the letter is below: August 12, 2010 Honorable Timothy Geithner Secretary, U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner, I am saddened to hear that despite providing $148 billion to keep viable Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, they are again asking for another taxpayer bailout. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac recently asked taxpayers to provide an additional $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion respectively, following larger than expected second quarter losses. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac already owe the federal government $63 billion and $85 billion respectively, but they continue to lose money from bad loans made by lending institutions from 2005 to 2008. It is not known if additional requests for federal money will come following future quarter losses, putting taxpayers further at risk. On June 15 of this year I wrote to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I urged the Federal Housing Finance Agency to mandate that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac finalize billions of outstanding repurchasing requests for loans that do not comply with federal standards. It is time large lending institutions own up to their own reckless loans and not force their losses onto taxpayers. As of March 31, 2010 Freddie Mac reported $4.8 billion in outstanding repurchasing requests—34 percent of these requests had been outstanding for 90 days or more. Fannie Mae has $1.8 billion in outstanding repurchasing requests from the first quarter in 2010. It is important to note that these outstanding repurchasing requests exceed the current requests for taxpayer bailouts of $1.5 billion for Fannie Mae and $1.8 billion for Freddie Mac. As you know, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has the authority to provide Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac the requested money to stay afloat. Before Treasury provides additional taxpayer money, the Federal Housing Finance Agency should force Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to recoup their losses from the banks who are contractually obligated to take back high risk loans that do not comply with federal standards. Taxpayers should not be on the hook for these bad loans made by large lending institutions. I urge the Department of the Treasury to withhold any payments until the Federal Housing Finance Agency forces Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to take all legal action possible to reduce their losses. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
08.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be in Josephine County on Wednesday, August 18th to attend the Josephine Country Fair and hold two town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio will be at the Josephine County Fair from 2:30 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. He will be available to talk with fair goers about federal issues. At the town hall meetings, DeFazio plans to discuss current issues before Congress including his efforts to fight for good-paying jobs and help local small businesses, protect taxpayers by making BP pay for its cleanup, his opposition to the Wall Street bailout and passage of recent financial reforms, his efforts to rein in federal spending, and U.S. involvement in Afghanistan. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions from constituents about federal issues. Wednesday, August 18th: 12:00—1:00 PM Merlin Town Hall Meeting Merlin Community Center 100 Acorn Street Merlin 2:30—4:15 PM Josephine County Fair 1451 Fairgrounds Road Grants Pass 5:15—6:15 PM Cave Junction Town Hall Meeting Cave Junction County Annex 102 South Redwood Highway Cave Junction
08.10.2010	CALLS ON GOVERNOR AND SCHOOLS TO USE EMEGENCY FUNDS TO RESTORE PUBLIC SAFETY, HEALTH AND EDUCATION August 10, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent a letter to Governor Kulongoski and Superintendent of Public Instruction Susan Castillo urging them to use the emergency funds approved by the House today to restore cuts in vital services rather than put it in a reserve to avoid future cuts. The funding was included in H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act to provide much-needed one-time emergency funding for states that have had to make devastating cuts in vital services due to the economic downturn. H.R. 1586 is paid for by closing tax loopholes that allow corporations to avoid paying U.S. taxes and cuts in future food stamp benefits among other cuts. DeFazio specifically urged the Governor to whatever is necessary to use these funds to selectively restore funds to programs critical to our public safety, health and education. And he urged Superintendent Castillo to direct school districts to use the funds to re-hire teachers, reduce class size and restore instruction days. DeFazio released the following statement about today’s vote: “This is emergency funding, and it should be used as emergency funding, not put in a reserve to avoid future cuts. Oregon is again headed toward having the shortest school year in America. If our kids don’t get those school days back this year, we will be short-changing them on their future. We also have some of the largest class sizes. You can’t teach a class of 38 or 40 kids in middle school. It isn’t a good educational experience. We are stealing from their future. I’m hoping that the funds we vote for today will be used by the state to plug the hole this year. I don’t want them to think maybe things will be worse next year, and if we hang onto this funding we can avoid future cuts. No, the cuts are happening today. They are hurting kids today. They need to fill those holes today. This funding should put teachers back to work, lower class size, and get the school year back up to a reasonable length.” “There are other cuts that can be taken care of by this vote as well. In Oregon we have cut back on State Police, even though we have one of the lowest policing ratios in the United States of America. We have huge swaths of our rural areas that do not have adequate law enforcement. We need more state police on the road. Our seniors need home care so they can continue to live independently in their homes. Our community colleges are cutting back at the same time we are seeing record unemployment and people are trying to get training to get a job in a bad economy. “ “We have an obligation to kids and grandkids to stop borrowing and spending, and today, for once, we’re actually going to meet emergency needs across America and we’re going to pay for it. We are closing some foreign tax loopholes that allow corporations to avoid paying U.S. taxes. When we built the greatest nation on earth, corporations paid 40% of the taxes paid in this country. Today, they pay only 7% because of the loopholes we are closing today. And the Republicans think that is just too much.” “Well, we can either close this loophole to help fund our kid’s education so they don’t have the shortest school year or the largest class sizes in America. Or we can continue business as usual and continue to subsidize corporations and allow them to hide money overseas. I’m voting with the kids.”
08.09.2010	Urge Deficit Commission to Reject Privatization or Raising Retirement Age; Make Wealthy Pay Same Rate as Working Men and Women WASHINGTON, September 30 – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today sent a letter to the co-chairs of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, the so-called Deficit Commission, outlining a plan to protect Social Security for the more than 50 million American seniors collecting benefits. The bi-partisan Deficit Commission is charged with making recommendations to rein in federal spending in order to reduce the federal budget deficit. House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and others have recently suggested that Congress may need to privatize Social Security or raise the retirement age to help save the Social Security program from insolvency. However, we do not need to raise the retirement age or cut benefits to ensure the future solvency of the program. According to the Social Security Trust Fund Board of Trustees annual report which was released last week, without any changes in the program, the Social Security Trust Fund will continue to pay current benefits up until 2037 – 27 years from now. And without any changes in the program, after 2037 the Social Security Trust Fund would continue to pay up to 75% of current benefits until 2075. “We can all agree that Social Security faces some challenges in the future, but we don’t have to burn down the house in order to save it,” DeFazio said. “I adamantly oppose dismantling the program through privatization, raising the retirement age, or cutting benefits to provide for the future solvency of Social Security. A better, and more fair way, to keep the program intact and provide 100 percent of promised benefits is to require millionaires to pay the same percent of their income to support Social Security as a worker who earns $30,000 a year. If we equalize the tax structure, we could provide 100 percent of promised benefits and still have room to give everyone earning less than $106,800 a year a tax cut." In the letter to the Commission, DeFazio and Sanders stated that Social Security did not contribute to the current budget deficit and is not a threat to the country’s future financial stability. Every dollar spent on Social Security is raised for the program through dedicated payroll taxes and interest earned on the Trust Fund. If revenues aren’t enough to pay for 100% of promised benefits, then benefits are cut. The lawmakers criticize proposals to privatize Social Security as too risky, and urge commission members to consider lifting the cap on earnings subject to the FICA tax to help stabilize the Social Security Trust Fund. Currently, only earnings up to $106,800 a year are subject to the Social Security payroll tax (FICA). Thus, a worker earning $106,800 a year pays the same amount of FICA taxes as a CEO who makes millions of dollars a year. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), applying the FICA tax to all earnings over $106,800 would help stabilize the Social Security Trust Fund after 2037 when it will begin to pay out more in benefits than it will take in. The surplus revenue would not only sustain current benefit levels into the foreseeable future, but would also allow Congress to reevaluate Social Security benefits for those who most rely on them, such as enhancing benefits for low income earners or reducing their payroll tax rate. The text of the letter follows: August 9, 2010 The Honorable Erskine Bowles Co-Chair, National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 The Honorable Alan Simpson Co-Chair, National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Co-Chairs Bowles and Simpson: Thank you for your efforts to help the nation close the burgeoning federal deficit. We too have deep concerns about the countries’ future viability with over $13 trillion in national debt and understand that you face difficult decisions to find ways to reduce this debt. The long-term insolvency of the Social Security Trust Fund is one of many challenges you face, but it is neither your largest challenge nor a contributor to the current record deficits. It is important to remember that Social Security did not contribute a dime to our deficit. It has paid for every benefit check that has gone out and will continue to pay for every benefit check through 2037. Social Security is not a threat to our financial stability but rather provides financial security to millions of seniors, disabled and their children. Although critics of Social Security claim the program is going "bankrupt" and is in "crisis," the report from the Social Security Trustees proves otherwise. The program is fundamentally sound and can remain so for the next 75 years and beyond with relatively minor changes. Under current law, the resources needed to fully pay for Social Security benefits 75-years out will fall short of the benefits owed to beneficiaries by about 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP). While there are multiple options to eliminate the long-term trust fund imbalance, advocates of Social Security privatization exaggerate the problems of Social Security to support an ideological agenda. Proposals to privatize Social Security increases retirement risks by reducing guaranteed benefit amounts and relying on the stock market to provide benefits. We must not forget the stock market plunge in 2008, which reduced retirement savings that in many cases will take years to rebuild. Even the most skilled financial planners can't guarantee financial security in the private financial markets. Wall Street brokers and mutual fund managers stand to make billions of dollars if they are managing millions of small investment accounts. Administrative fees for these accounts could total 15 percent of worker’s retirement investments, further reducing benefits and exacerbating the insolvency of the Social Security Trust Fund. Currently, administrative costs for Social Security are very low, less than one percent of the program’s budget. The stock market is just too risky for Social Security investments. Another option being discussed to reduce the Trust Fund imbalance is raising the full retirement age (FRA) for beneficiaries. However, doing so is equivalent to cutting benefits. A one-year increase in the FRA is equivalent to a reduction in a retiree’s monthly benefits of between 5-8 percent. According to July 2010 CBO figures, increasing the FRA an additional two months for 18 years, until it reaches the age of 70, would not significantly extend the trust fund exhaustion date yet will reduce lifetime benefits for today’s young workers by about 15 percent. Workers in physically demanding professions cannot often work additional years, and will face reduced lifetime benefits if they must claim benefits before their full retirement age. Low-income workers are most vulnerable if they lose guaranteed Social Security benefits, as they are less likely to have other forms of savings. Instead of reducing guaranteed benefits or raising the FRA, we ask that you apply the Social Security payroll tax to all income, providing long-term financial viability for the Social Security Trust Fund. Today, taxable earnings only up to $106,800 a year is levied the Social Security payroll tax, leaving out the highest 17 percent of incomes. Thus, a worker earning $106,800 pays the same Social Security tax as a multi-millionaire. Applying the Social Security payroll tax on all incomes would correct this inequity. The Congressional Budget Office’s July 2010 figures indicated that lifting the Social Security payroll tax minimum in 2012 would more than eliminate the actuarial imbalance of 0.6 percent GDP by increasing revenues 0.9 percent of GDP. The surplus revenue would not only sustain current benefit levels, but allow Congress to reevaluate Social Security benefits for those who most rely on them in a variety of sound ways, such as enhancing benefits for low income earners or reducing their payroll tax rate. Applying the payroll tax to all incomes extends the trust fund exhaustion date beyond the 75-year projection period. As a result, benefits will not be rolled back in 2037. This revenue boost eliminates any reason to cut Social Security benefits. A vast majority of Social Security beneficiaries are not wealthy- the average retirement benefit is only $13,800 a year. Most retirees today have seen a decline in their living standard as home values have declined and pensions have been reduced. We must reaffirm our commitment to one of the greatest legislative accomplishments without privatizing Social Security, reducing benefits or raising the full retirement age. Social Security provides a lifeline to millions of Americans and their livelihood will depend on the decisions you make affecting Social Security. Economic prosperity is never guaranteed during retirement and we need Social Security benefits for current and future beneficiaries now more than ever. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Bernie Sanders Member of Congress United States Senator
07.28.2010	Bill part of House package to help export U.S. goods, not jobs July 28, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation authored by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) to close our trade deficit and help our nation export goods, not jobs. DeFazio’s legislation, H.R. 1875, the Emergency Trade Deficit Commission, passed unanimously. DeFazio is part of a coalition of members that has developed the “Make it in America” manufacturing initiative to rebuild America’s manufacturing base and bring and keep good value jobs here in the U.S. H.R. 1875 is intended to help establish a coherent trade strategy to achieve balanced trade. In addition to DeFazio’s bill, the “Make it in America” initiative also provides incentives for manufacturing investment in the U.S. to create a level playing field for U.S. manufacturers, improve U.S. infrastructure, and strengthen the labor pool through improved education and training programs. “We need a trade overhaul to help our nation export goods, not jobs,” DeFazio said. “The world is not forever going to lend us money to buy things that we used to make here. And as we impoverish more and more of the middle class by exporting their jobs, we're going to have even less capability of buying those goods. Something has to change.” In 1998, the United States trade deficit was $166 billion, which led Congress to authorize the Trade Deficit Review Commission. This Commission was the watered down version of the End the Trade Deficit Act introduced in 1997 by Rep DeFazio and Senator Dorgan. Unfortunately, the Commission was deadlocked along ideological lines and no recommendations were ever enacted. Fast forward to today and the trade deficit has ballooned to $677 billion in 2008, $700 billion in 2007, both down from the largest negative trade balance in history, $753 billion in 2006. But this is not a new trend. The United States has had 33 years of consecutive annual trade deficits, totaling $6.7 trillion. In the last ten years, the annual trade balance has increased by a magnitude of seven. Deficits of this magnitude mean the loss of millions of good paying jobs, the loss of critical manufacturing infrastructure, and that foreign countries, like China, who finance our debt, have undue influence over policies. The recession has not changed the underlying trend. While the trade deficit dropped to $375 billion (for goods and services) in 2009, the real story is the imbalance between China and the U.S. In 2009, we ran a manufacturing trade deficit with China of $226 billion, a full 44% of our trade gap. “The U.S. gets played for a sucker in these trade deals,” DeFazio continued. “Our trade policies all have the same fundamental flaw; they open up U.S. markets to imports, but always fail to open up foreign markets to U.S. exports. The commission will review U.S. trade policies that have allowed huge multinational corporations to export our industrial manufacturing base as they chase the cheapest labor and lax environmental and safety standards around the world.” The Chinese have been particularly effective in protecting their markets while the U.S. has given away millions of manufacturing jobs. For instance, the Chinese passed a law prohibiting the sale of any renewable technology unless it was manufactured in China by a Chinese company. We can talk about green jobs and how they will put American’s back to work, but we’re importing Chinese windmills and they are excluding any kind of green technologies made here in the U.S. from being sold in their country. The U.S. has lost 3,718,000 manufacturing jobs since 1998, including more than 45,000 here in Oregon. To access video click: https://bit.ly/DeFazio-tradebill
07.26.2010	July 26, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) today sent a letter to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric (NOAA) administrator, Jane Lubchenco, asking the agency to make changes to a forthcoming West Coast fishing plan to protect fishermen and coastal communities. DeFazio and Thompson believe if the fishing plan goes forward as designed, fishing families and coastal communities in southern Oregon and northern California could be negatively impacted. The new fishing plan is being designed by the Pacific Fishery Management Council but must be approved by Dr. Lubchenco’s agency before being implemented by January, 2011. The plan calls for “rationalizing” the West Coast trawl groundfishery, which consists of over 90 species such as Pacific cod, whiting, and rockfish. The rationalization of the trawl fishery, commonly called a “catch share” program, would establish a system by which fishing privileges are given to businesses and individuals as private rights, who are then allowed to trade, buy, or sell these rights as they see fit. Proponents of the fishing plan say a catch share program would improve efficiency and overcapacity of the West Coast groundfishery. DeFazio and Thompson argue a catch share program could lead to market consolidation, manipulation, and the loss of fishing jobs. “This is just another attempt by misguided environmental groups to use a ‘market-based’ solution to solve an ecological challenge-overfishing and bycatch in this case,” DeFazio said. “Just as I opposed a cap-and-trade system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fought deregulation of the energy sector in the west, I am not convinced catch shares are the silver bullet proponents make them out to be. Before moving forward, we should make sure we have done everything we can to protect Oregon fishing families and coastal communities. I’m not convinced NOAA has done that.” “As currently proposed, this catch share program not only causes undue stress on our groundfish fishermen and their families, but the added costs, including those for fisheries observers, could cripple the infrastructure of the entire fishing industry along California and Oregon,” said Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA). If NOAA is unable or unwilling to address the concerns DeFazio and Thompson raise in their letter, they’ve asked Dr. Lubchenco to remand the plan back to the Pacific Fishery Management Council with a directive to make changes. Final rules and regulations for the West Coast catch share program could be finished as early as August. The final plan would go into effect in January 2011. The full text of the letter is below: July 27, 2010 Dr. Jane Lubchenco Administrator National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration U.S. Department of Commerce Herbert Hoover Building, Room 5221 Fourteenth Street and Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Dr. Lubchenco: We are writing to express our serious concerns about the implementation of the West Coast Groundfish Fishery Catch Share program in January, 2011. Below, we outline several design flaws of the current program that can and should be addressed before implementation. We request that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) address these issues before approving Amendment 20 and Amendment 21 to the Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery Management Plan or to remand the amendments back to the Pacific Fishery Management Council with a specific directive to address the below concerns. If implemented as designed, we believe the groundfish catch share program will have devastating impacts on west coast coastal and fishing communities. Making substantive changes after the program has gone into effect will be difficult for the agency, costly to the taxpayer, and burdensome to fishermen and fishing communities. We have the following concerns: Cost of implementation- The Observer/Monitor Program alone could cost between $6-$20 million annually. Combined with costs to administer the program and Groundfish Buyback loan payments, the cost of the proposed catch share program could cripple an industry that grosses between $44-50 million annually. Initial allocation of quotas- By “gifting” initial allocations to vessel owners, the Council is effectively converting a public trust resource into a private capital asset. Gifting allocations will provide those that are initial recipients of quota shares with a financial advantage by increasing their wealth and potentially creating windfalls for non-fishing interests. Participation and transferability- The Council’s proposal places few restrictions on who can own quota and modest caps on quota ownership for vessels and corporate entities. The current design of the system could create instances of market speculation and manipulation that would undermine market stability and transparency. Consolidation of the west coast groundfish fishery- The most immediate impact of the catch share program will be the downsizing of the west coast fishing fleet. The active trawl fleet of about 120 vessels is expected to decrease by 50 to 60 percent, leaving 40-60 vessels. The remaining vessels will be forced to pay higher costs to lease or purchase additional quota shares. Smaller boats and fishing interests will likely be forced out of the market. We have serious concerns about the impact of consolidation not only on the men and women currently involved in the groundfish fishery, but also on the communities they support. Impact on and spillover into different fisheries- Due to downsizing and excess capacity, vessel owners will likely try to sell their boats to fishermen in other fisheries or re-activate the vessels by purchasing permits in other federal fisheries. There is a real and significant risk that former groundfish trawlers may spillover into the pink shrimp, Dungeness crab, and fixed gear fisheries on the west coast. Such spillover has significant economic and ecological ramifications. To be clear, we do not oppose the implementation of well-designed catch share programs and recognize the potential ecological benefit of their use. However, the program should be implemented only after NOAA and the Council have meaningfully addressed the outstanding design problems. It defies common sense that NOAA and the Council would move forward with the catch share program knowing full well that substantive changes (i.e. “trailing amendments”) will have to be designed, approved, and implemented immediately to correct known design flaws. It’s in the best interest of the federal government and the general public that those changes be made before implementation. Thank you in advance for your timely response to this letter. We look forward to working with you to restore healthy fisheries and to promote sustainable and economically secure coastal communities on the west coast. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Mike Thompson Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.22.2010	July 22, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the House of Representatives will vote on his bill, H.R. 1875, the End the Trade Deficit Act, next week. DeFazio is part of a coalition that has been working with the House leadership to develop the “Make it in America” manufacturing initiative to rebuild America’s manufacturing base and bring and keep good value jobs here at home. H.R. 1875 is intended to help establish a coherent trade strategy to achieve balanced trade. In addition to DeFazio’s bill, the “Make it in America” initiative would also provide incentives for manufacturing investment in the U.S., create a level playing field for U.S. manufacturers, improve U.S. infrastructure, and strengthen the labor pool through improved education and training programs. The package of bills will be considered on the House floor next week. “We need a trade overhaul to help our nation export goods, not jobs,” DeFazio said. “The world is not forever going to lend us money to buy things that we used to make here. And as we impoverish more and more of the middle class by exporting their jobs, we're going to have even less capability of buying those goods. Something has to change.” In 1998, the United States trade balance was $166 billion, which led Congress to authorize the Trade Deficit Review Commission. This Commission was the watered down version of the End the Trade Deficit Act introduced in 1997 by Rep DeFazio and Senator Dorgan. Unfortunately, the Commission was deadlocked along partisan lines and no recommendations were ever enacted. Fast forward to today and the trade deficit has ballooned to $677 billion in 2008, $700 billion in 2007, both down from the largest negative trade balance in history, $753 billion in 2006. But this is not a new trend. The United States has had 33 years of consecutive annual trade deficits, totaling $6.7 trillion. In the last ten years, the annual trade balance has increased by a magnitude of seven. The recession has not changed the underlying trend. While the trade deficit dropped to $375 billion in 2009, the real story is the imbalance between China and the U.S. In 2009, we ran a trade deficit with China of $226 billion, a full 60% of our trade gap. “Our trade policies all have the same fundamental flaw; they open up U.S. markets to imports, but always fail to open up foreign markets to U.S. exports,” DeFazio continued. “Chinese actions to protect their markets have been highly successful, while the U.S. has given away millions of manufacturing jobs. The Chinese passed a law prohibiting the sale of any renewable technology unless it was manufactured in China. So, we can talk about green jobs and how they will put American’s back to work, but we’re importing Chinese windmills and they are excluding any kind of advanced technologies made here in the U.S. from being sold in their country. There are a host of things wrong with this picture. Our economy will not recover if we give up making things in the U.S.” “The U.S. has lost 3,718,000 manufacturing jobs since 1998. The commission needs to review U.S. trade policies that have allowed huge multinational corporations to export our industrial manufacturing base as they chase the cheapest labor and lax environmental and safety regulations around the world.”
07.21.2010	July 21, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced he has secured approval for $500,000 to be used for the Coos Bay Waterfront Development Initiative. The funding was included in the Transportation, HUD Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2011. The bill was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday, July 21, 2010. "Improving our infrastructure is key to stimulating the economy, attracting new business and creating new jobs,” DeFazio said. “The Coos Bay Waterfront Development has been a long time in the coming, and this funding couldn’t come at a better time to help move this project forward and to help kick-start the local economy.” The Coos Bay Waterfront Development Initiative; $500,000; Funding will be used for site prep and plaza construction at the future site of the Coos Bay Regional Center (CBRC). This project has been in the works for nine years and is strongly supported by local and state government, local tribal government, business groups, trade unions, school districts, and Southwestern Community College. When fully complete, the Coos Bay Waterfront Development Initiative will consist of the 18,000 square foot CBRC and public venue with outdoor plaza and walkway, parking and water access on 3 acres of formerly industrial, now abandoned, waterfront property along Highway 101 in Coos Bay. The Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill must now be approved by the full House of Representatives.
07.21.2010	July 21, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced he has secured approval for $300,000 to be used for important highway safety improvements in Cave Junction. The funding was included in the Transportation, HUD Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2011. The bill was approved by the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday, July 20, 2010. “I'm pleased the Committee has recognized this important community safety concern,” DeFazio said. “This funding will help mitigate a long-standing traffic hazard and ensure public safety. US 199 Safety Improvements in Cave Junction; $300,000; US 199 (Redwood Highway) serves as an important connection between the Rogue Valley and I-5 corridor to the communities of the Illinois Valley and the southern Oregon/northern California coast. It also serves as main street for the City of Cave Junction near the edge of the Siskiyou National Forest. The intersection of US 199 and River Street in Cave Junction does not have a traffic signal yet is used as a pedestrian crossing by students from three local schools. This results in a dangerous street crossing for the students. The intersection also has a history of rear end collisions when vehicles stop in the inside lane to make left turns onto River Street because the intersection lacks turn lanes and a traffic signal. This project will improve safety at this intersection by installing a new traffic signal and reconfiguring the roadway to a three lane section with one lane in each direction and a left turn refuge. This narrowing will slow the speed of traffic, allow for a safer crossing for children, and allow traffic to safely turn to and from US 199. The Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill must now be approved by the full House of Representatives.
07.20.2010	Mineral Withdrawal Order Protects River from Suction Dredge Mining for Two Years July 20, 2010 Washington, D.C. – In a move intended to protect the Chetco River from the devastating environmental effects of suction dredge mining for two years, the Obama administration – at the strong urging of U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) – has announced that portions of the Chetco River will be subject to a process that allows the Forest Service to put a freeze on all future mining claims on those portions of the river. In addition, current mining claims will require validation before they can proceed. This action provides a two year window allowing Congress time to pass legislation permanently protecting these areas of the Chetco from invasive mining. The process of suction dredge mining can destroy the habitats and spawning grounds for the many species of fish and wildlife that live in and along the Chetco River. Species of salmon and steelhead are particularly exposed to the invasive practice that can cause irreparable damage to the local ecosystem. The action taken by the administration will exempt portions of the Chetco River from an antiquated 1872 law that allows outside interests to use environmentally dangerous mining practices. “Out-of-state mining interests can't be allowed to poison and destroy Oregon's rivers,” Wyden said. “I thank the administration for standing with the people of Oregon, and for standing up to the special interests who would pollute our state without regard for the long-term consequences.” “Today’s decision will help protect the wild beauty of the Chetco River and is critical to supporting wild salmon and steelhead trout,” said Merkley. “This is an important step in preserving this natural treasure. The next step is recognizing the Chetco as Wild and Scenic so that it is protected permanently, and I look forward to working with Senator Wyden and Congressman DeFazio to make it happen.” “Today’s announcement is a huge victory for Oregonians,” DeFazio said. “The mining withdrawal will help protect the Chetco from the threat of out-of-state miners and give Congress time to act to preserve one of Oregon’s most incredible natural treasures.” Earlier this year, Wyden, Merkley and DeFazio sent a letter to the Obama administration to ask for an exemption for the Chetco River from an antiquated 1872 law that would have allowed the mining to proceed. The three lawmakers also introduced legislation last month to classify much of the Chetco river as Wild and Scenic, a designation that will carry with it protections meant to preserve the waterway. The legislation also prohibits any new mining claims along the river and will require current claims to meet a rigorous validation process in order to have their claims maintained. The Chetco River was recently identified by American Rivers as one of the nation’s most endangered rivers.
07.14.2010	WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Rep. Travis Childers (D-MS) led a bi-partisan letter signed by 68 House members in sending a letter to President Obama asking him to include a long-term reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Communities Self-Determination Act (SRSCA) in the President’s 2012 budget. The Senate sent a similar letter to President Obama signed by 26 senators. The SRSCA provides funding to 33 Oregon counties for law enforcement, schools, and other vital services. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to enactment of the county payments program, counties received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990’s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the SRSCA in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure adequate funding for vital county services. The SRSCA expired on President Bush’s watch with a Republican controlled Congress in 2006. In 2007 the Democratic controlled Congress gave counties a one year-extension. And in 2008, Congress approved a four year extension with phased-down funding levels. If the program is not extended, Oregon counties will be forced to dramatically cut vitals services and face significant job losses. “Without a meaningful long-term solution to Secure Rural Schools funding, counties in Southwest Oregon will be forced to lay off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy and cut vital services,” DeFazio said. “We will lose sheriff patrols, jail beds, teachers and other critical services. This would be devastating to timber dependent communities where the real unemployment rate is already over 20 percent. The President was clear on the campaign trail that he supported a long-term solution to county payments. I intend to remind him of his promise to help provide financial security and economic predictability to rural communities in Oregon.” The text of the letter is below: July 15, 2010 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We respectfully request that you include a long-term reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Communities Self-Determination Act (SRSCA), and the concomitant funding, in your Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 budget request to Congress. The SRSCA is not an entitlement program, but rather a demonstration of the commitment that this nation made to rural forest counties when they determined that large blocks (193 million acres in total) of our forest lands should be set aside for the benefit of the entire nation. Indeed this “contract” between the federal government and rural America is part of the very foundation of our national forest system. President Theodore Roosevelt understood the value of conserving our forest lands and placing them in public trust. He likewise understood the economic burden this placed on rural counties to provide essential infrastructure like roads and public schools with their tax revenues reduced by the presence of federal lands in these counties. To mitigate these economic effects, President Roosevelt and Forest Service Chief Gifford Pinchot supported a revenue sharing concept that made forest counties a contracted business partner with the federal government. In 1908, Congress approved a revenue sharing plan specifying 25 percent of all revenues from National Forests would be returned to forested counties. This law worked well for nearly a century. However, by the late 1980’s national policies and court rulings substantially diminished revenue generating activity in our national forests. By 1998, revenues for national forest counties had declined by over 70 percent. The decline had a devastating impact on 780 counties nationwide and over nine million school children. Recognizing its obligation to rural America, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Communities Self-Determination Act of 2000, and President Bill Clinton signed the bill. It provided six years of funding. In 2007, Congress extended the SRSCA for one year. In 2008, Congress once again provided a four year extension of the SRSCA from 2008-2011. Timber harvests have not rebounded, so both the logic and the need for this program remain as strong today as when President Roosevelt first supported revenue sharing. The vast majority of the funds provided through the SRSCA are used to directly fund jobs in road maintenance and public works and positions within the public school system. These are essential services for the citizens of these rural communities and constitute family-wage earner jobs. Failure to extend the SRSCA in 2012 would have a devastating impact on the economies of over 780 of our most rural and most economically depressed counties and school districts across the nation. In these counties, unemployment is higher than in other regions of the country with rates approaching those experienced in the Great Depression. Failure to extend the SRSCA would lead to an annual payment loss of 468 million dollars starting in 2012-13. The economic impacts will be ongoing without an extension. This includes support for construction, roads, education, conservation, and various other government funded services and projects. The loss of the funding leads to various businesses throughout the United States, mainly in rural America, losing on an annual basis almost $1.37 billion in revenues, government at all levels losing over $188 million in tax receipts and over 11,000 people losing their jobs in 2012-13. In addition, Title II of the SRSCA has proven to be a substantial asset to rural communities and our forested public lands. Since 2000, in a very collaborative process, over $350 million has been invested in watershed restoration and forest health projects by Resource Advisory Committees (RACs). Not one project has been appealed or litigated. In fact, based on changes in the 2008 Act, the number of RACs has grown from 55 to 116. We are grateful that you appreciate the importance of the Secure Rural Schools and Communities Self-Determination Act. In May 2008, you stated in an interview with the Eugene Register-Guard, “I completely agree that it’s [SRSCA] an obligation we have to meet. I think that we’re not meeting it well right now because we’re doing it piecemeal year after year by year. . . .” Those words send a strong message about the need to support this ongoing commitment to rural America. We look forward to meeting with you and your administration to draft legislation to continue this historic partnership with rural America. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Kurt Schrader Mike Ross Walt Minnick Greg Walden Gregg Harper Jo Ann Emerson Cathy McMorris Rogers Joe Barton David Wu Stephanie Herseth Sandlin Tom McClintock Don Young Rick Larsen Louie Gohmert Bennie G. Thompson Ann Kirkpatrick Heath Shuler Earl Blumenauer Ben Ray Lujan Glenn "GT" Thompson Harry Teague Nick Rahall Brian Baird Wally Herger Rob Bishop Phil Roe Jim Matheson Raul Grijalva Doc Hastings Marion Berry Jason Chaffetz Denny Rehberg Betsy Markey Jim McDermott Adam Smith Russ Carnahan Jim Oberstar Norm Dicks John Shadegg Vic Snyder Mike Simpson Dan Lungren Rick Boucher Gene Taylor Jay Inslee Cynthia Lummis Devin Nunes David Reichert Debbie Halvorson John Salazar Jared Polis Allen Boyd Kevin Brady John Boozman Lois Capps Dan Boren Parker Griffith Roy Blunt Dean Heller Martin Heinrich Bart Stupak Ike Skelton Bobby Bright Gabrielle Giffords Shelley Moore Capito George Radanovich
07.06.2010	July 6, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—The Oregon Congressional delegation announced today that Acting Director David Stockwell of the Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center (PVAMC) has agreed to delay implementation of a new reimbursement policy for veterans. The Oregon delegation wrote Stockwell on June 21st, urging the VA to reconsider the reimbursement change citing the proposal as a financial hardship for many veterans around the state who must travel to Portland for medical services. Currently, veterans who must travel to a VA facility to receive health care services are eligible for travel reimbursement at 41.5 cents a mile and, in some cases, the cost of a hotel room. Veterans are able to receive reimbursements directly from the VA at the time they receive services. The reimbursement change was scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2010. Under the proposed reimbursement policy, veterans would have to submit vouchers and wait weeks for travel reimbursements. Many veterans simply cannot afford to make lengthy trips without the option of continuing to receive travel reimbursements while at the VA facility. The policy could have compromised the health care of veterans who cannot afford to wait for reimbursement. “I am pleased the VA has delayed this unfair proposal. The VA sometimes loses sight of its mission and creates additional barriers for veterans, rather than making it as easy as possible for vets to get the services they need.” DeFazio said. “Some veterans in the southern part of the state must travel to the Portland VA weekly for cancer treatments and other medical services. Under the proposed policy, the VA could owe these vets hundreds of dollars a month for travel expenses. This is an unreasonable burden on these families and it defies common sense. ” “Delaying the new policy in how vets would get reimbursed for travel to the hospital is a good first step for the VA to take. Now, they need to listen to the vets who want the option of getting reimbursed on site where they get their treatment,” said Wyden. “Vets need to know that they won’t have to suffer from a financial hole in their pocket on top of any medical problems they face.“ “I appreciate that the VA has listened to the concerns brought forth by Oregon’s congressional delegation and that veterans will not have to delay or forfeit medical care because they could not afford the travel costs,” Merkley said. “Our veterans have already sacrificed for our country and we should make every effort to make accessing services easier for them -- not harder. Traveling long distances for necessary health care is a burden in itself and I’m glad that our veterans won’t have the extra burden this policy change would have imposed.” “Our men and women in uniform deserve the best care possible,” said Schrader. “Many of our rural Veterans have to travel significant distances to receive medical treatment at their nearest VA clinic. We need to ensure that our Veterans receive timely reimbursements so they don’t have to choose between receiving medical treatment and placing food on their tables.” The full text of the delegation letter is below: June 21, 2010 David Stockwell, Acting Director Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center 3710 SW US Veterans Hospital Road Portland OR 97239-2964 Dear Mr. Stockwell: We are hearing from veterans and their family members about the new travel reimbursements process being implemented in Oregon on July 1, 2010. We share their concerns about delayed reimbursements and the potential for payment backlogs. Many veterans live hundreds of miles from the VA facilities in Portland and Vancouver. For example, a veteran in Bandon traveling to Portland for care drives nearly 500 miles round-trip and receives a round-trip reimbursement rate of 41.5 cents a mile. Under the new policy, the veteran will have to wait for a reimbursement that may have previously provided the cash needed to fill the tank for the trip home. As you well know, Oregon veterans are suffering chronic high unemployment rates. The Bureau of Labor Statistics notes the unemployment rate for young veterans under 25 years of age is over 20 percent. In this economic climate, the new procedure is going to be a financial hardship for many Oregon veterans and may prevent them from receiving health care. The beneficiary travel payment announcements being sent to veterans by the Medical Center state the new procedure “will improve efficiency” and “provide better customer service.” According to your customers, the new process will empty the pockets of veterans already struggling to make ends meet. Our constituents are telling us they want to have the option of waiting in line for their travel reimbursements because they simply cannot afford to loan the VA money for several weeks. Please let us know before this policy is implemented if the VA Medical Center campuses in Portland and Vancouver will accommodate the needs of low income veterans for immediate reimbursements. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Member of Congress Greg Walden Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Member of Congress Jeff Merkley Ron Wyden Senator Senator David Wu Member of Congress
06.30.2010	June 30, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today voted to rein in Wall Street, end taxpayer bailouts of big banks, and create a consumer financial protection bureau that finally puts consumers first. The bill also increases transparency at the Federal Reserve. DeFazio has long supported legislation to empower the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to audit the Federal Reserve. The House-Senate conference report on H..R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act passed the House by a vote of 237-192. The Senate is expected to vote on the conference agreement in mid-July. “Working families in Oregon and across the country are angry, and they should be,” DeFazio said. “I’m angry too. Hard working families have lost their jobs, their homes, and their pensions as a result of Wall Street’s recklessness and greed. Republicans and the Bush Administration looked the other way while Wall Street made obscene profits at the expense of our economy and Main Street Americans.” “I voted against deregulation of the financial markets that led to the economic collapse, I voted against the $700 billion taxpayer-funded bailout, and I proposed legislation to require Wall Street to pay for its own mistakes,” DeFazio continued. “These reforms are a start -- they don’t go far enough. I’m particularly disappointed that restrictions on the derivatives market were weakened in the conference. And the legislation fails to put a cap on bank liabilities, which would ensure no institution is “too big to fail.” But, it’s an important first step toward restoring regulations and protections to ensure that this never happens again.”
06.24.2010	June 24, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today in a speech on the House floor, urged President Obama to reconsider his policy in Afghanistan in light of the replacement of General McChrystal. A copy of DeFazio’s comments on the House floor today are below, as well as the video: “The President has been given a unique opportunity today with the firing of General McChrystal who was the principle author and advocate of the surge strategy in Afghanistan. His theory was that it would be a clear, hold and transfer to the Afghan police who don’t exist, to the security forces who are in disarray and to the government which doesn’t exist in any meaningful way outside of the Capitol. There is unbelievable corruption rife throughout the Karzi government, the police, and security forces. Even before General McChrystal was fired, he admitted this mission was going to take much longer and be much harder and than he originally thought. This means President Obama’s dictate of starting a withdrawal next summer is not realistic. So we have a choice. We can either get into a very long-term engagement at a cost of $30 billion a year and tremendous sacrifice by our troops on a strategy that has not worked. Or, we can re-think that strategy, perhaps along the lines of what Vice President Biden has proposed. I agree with Vice President Biden who sees this as mostly an inter- and intra- tribal fight with some radical Taliban elements, some radical Pakistan Taliban elements and a few al Queda. The U.S. can take care of any terrorist forces coming in from outside with a smaller troop presence and should let the Afghans work out their tribal and intra-tribal conflicts that they’ve been carrying on over for 600 years. We can help them adopt policies to meaningfully rebuild their country. I know the President has said no change in policy, but I think he should step-back, consult again with his advisers, look at the results of the war so far. He should listen to those critical comments in the article by Pentagon officials suggesting this is going to take years and years, may require a second surge, and requiring additional troops in Afghanistan. Is this starting to sound like Viet Nam to anyone? We prop up a government that has no relationship to the rest of the country, with wide-spread corruption, and that government falls and another comes in. The Afghan situation echos that failure. So, in the strongest terms possible, I urge the President, now that General McChrystal is gone, to reconsider our policy in Afghanistan and move toward a much less expensive, much less troop intensive strategy that would bring about a much better result in Afghanistan.”
06.23.2010	WASHINGTON (WEDNESDAY, June 23) – Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), joined by 49 other representatives and five other senators, are asking U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to retain the regulated status of genetically engineered (GE) alfalfa. Their letter comes in response to a USDA Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) finding “no significant impact” from the use of genetically modified versions of the crop. Leahy and DeFazio co-authored legislation to create the national organic standards and labeling program in 1990. Genetically modified crops are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), which requires federal agencies to review the environmental impacts of proposed actions, such as USDA’s proposed deregulation of a genetically modified seed. In their letter, the lawmakers assert that the draft USDA findings about genetically engineered alfalfa cannot be justified. They warn that GE alfalfa would contaminate the crops of both conventional and organic alfalfa farmers, resulting in significant economic harm to alfalfa seed producers and to the organic dairy industry. The fast growing organic dairy sector currently generates about $1.4 billion in sales. “Consumers today respect and rely on what the USDA certified organic seal represents, which includes no GE contamination,” says the letter headed by Leahy and DeFazio. “If the USDA organic seal no longer represents a GE-free product, the integrity of the entire organic industry in this country will be compromised and consumers may no longer choose organic products.” Despite the economic recession, the organic market continues to grow. For example, in 2009 total U.S. organic consumer product sales grew 5.3% to reach $26.6 billion. This week (on June 21) the U.S. Supreme Court announced its 7 to 1 decision in a case related to the USDA’s potential deregulation of GE alfalfa. In the Monsanto Co. v Geerston Seed Farms decision, the court ordered the lifting of a nationwide permanent injunction on GE alfalfa. The case is widely viewed as having broad implications beyond alfalfa crops, potentially affecting the hundreds of GE food applications that have been submitted to USDA to determine environmental threats and seeking approval for use. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Vilsack: We have serious concerns regarding the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for genetically engineered (GE) alfalfa. We have concluded that USDA’s preliminary finding of “No Significant Impact” cannot be justified and we call on you to correct the serious deficiencies in the DEIS and to deny the request for deregulated GE alfalfa. In the DEIS, USDA- APHIS concludes that contamination of non-GE alfalfa is highly unlikely, and if it does occur, the impacts would be inconsequential. That conclusion is based on the fact that the alfalfa is typically harvested prior to maturity, negating the potential of cross-pollination and contamination. Even if harvest occurs after maturity, APHIS contends that the required isolation distances will insure that the contamination is contained. These conclusions are not supported by the evidence or the science. The DEIS acknowledges that gene flow contamination will likely occur and goes on to elaborate on the conditions which increase that possibility: proximity of fields, pest management strategies, feral alfalfa corridors, movement of honey bees and overstocking of pollinators. The DEIS further acknowledges that honey bees, the primary pollinators of alfalfa, travel distances far in excess of the required isolation distances. While APHIS maintains that contamination is unlikely, they contradict their own conclusion by determining that glyphosate tolerant alfalfa deregulation will lead to a shift to larger farms as alfalfa producers seek more land to avoid contamination. During the two years that GE alfalfa was permitted to be grown commercially, approximately 200,000 acres of Roundup Ready alfalfa were planted – amounting to less than 1% of the total alfalfa acres in the U.S. Cal/West Seeds, a major alfalfa seed exporter, reported that 12% of 200+ lots and all 6 of its research lots had tested positive for GE alfalfa in 2008 and that preliminary data indicated that 30% of 10 seed stock lots had tested positive in 2009. Additionally, Dairyland Seed Company, a major alfalfa seed producer and exporter, reported contamination of 11-16 sites at distances of up to 1 ½ miles – far beyond the recommended 900 foot isolation distances. We believe that GE contamination will occur and it will result in significant economic harm to both the alfalfa seed and forage export markets and to the organic dairy industry. APHIS has ignored the potential economic harm, concluding that GE sensitivity was too speculative while blaming farmers and the organic industry for its failure to provide evidence of consumer resistance and consequent economic loss. There is nothing speculative regarding the loss of foreign alfalfa seed and forage markets. According to the Foreign Agriculture Service at USDA, the alfalfa forage exports in 2007 amounted to $159 million to GE sensitive markets in Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Saudi Arabia, the largest importer of alfalfa seed, banned the import and/or use of GE seeds in 2004. Saudi Arabia imported $38 million of U.S. alfalfa seeds in 2007. Based on those figures, alfalfa producers could lose at least $197 million annually in alfalfa seed and forage exports as a result of GE alfalfa deregulation. Today, U.S. exports of biotech corn and soybeans, as well as other agriculture products that contain or may have been contaminated with biotech ingredients continue to face a wide array of trade barriers. Several U.S. trading partners have employed restrictive measures or imposed bans on some U.S. agricultural products over health and environmental safety concerns related to biotechnology. We believe that organic dairy producers will also suffer significant economic losses as a result of GE alfalfa deregulation. APHIS contends that organic certification is process-based and contamination would not impact certification. This conclusion is contradicted by organic industry leaders. The CROPP Cooperative processes and markets organic dairy and meat products for 941 producers in 28 states under the “Organic Valley” brand, which in 2007 had annual sales of $333 million and a growth rate of 38% between 2005-2007. George Siemans, CROPP Cooperative CEO, has stated that if GE alfalfa results in the contamination of certified organic alfalfa stands or seed stock, it will devastate the organic farmers who market their milk as organic. Albert Straus of the Straus Family Creamery in Marshall California has stated that contamination of alfalfa forage would result in the widespread loss of organic and non-GE certifications and have a devastating impact on organic dairy producers and their ability to acquire organic forage. Organic feed is already expensive and in short supply in this country, if organic alfalfa becomes contaminated by GE alfalfa, it would greatly compound the feed shortage and increase the operating costs for organic dairy farms. This comes just as organic dairy producers are proving that they can be competitive with conventional production and are finding ways to further reduce their operating costs. Consumers today respect and rely on what the USDA certified organic seal represents, which includes no GE contamination. If the USDA organic seal no longer represents a GE-free product, the integrity of the entire organic industry in this country will be compromised and consumers may no longer choose organic products. The organic dairy industry is now at approximately $1.4 billion in sales and according to USDA’s 2008 Organic Production Survey, farm sales of organic fluid milk were $750 million. If farmers are unable to source adequate organic feed, they will not be able to produce organic milk. The DEIS analysis fails to consider the need for GE alfalfa. Herbicides are used on only 7% of the alfalfa acreage in the country as “companion crops” in alfalfa fields are commonly utilized by dairy and beef producers for weed control and nutritional balance in livestock diets. The potential development of herbicide tolerance is minimized and dismissed. We believe that other significant environmental impacts are overlooked, ignored or minimized in the DEIS analysis. Neither impact was given any significance by APHIS, and should be reconsidered. USDA has taken an impermissibly narrow view of its regulatory authority. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the Plant Protection Act (PPA) provide a robust regulatory framework that ensures the protection of the environment and the vital economic interests of U.S. farmers. NEPA requires a hard look at the environmental consequences of federal actions and mandates that all reasonably foreseeable environmental impacts be addressed. The PPA grants you with broad authority to protect the agriculture, environment and economy of the U.S. Congress enacted legislation in the 2008 Farm Bill to provide the USDA Secretary with added authority to ensure that GE contamination was minimized or prevented after rice producers lost an estimated $1.25 billion as a result of a contamination event. The USDA has failed to adopt regulations implementing these statutory mandates. APHIS cannot run away from its regulatory responsibilities to protect farmers from environmental and economic harm that are the direct result of GE contamination in the promotion of agricultural biotechnologies. We believe that the broad regulatory authority available to you has been ignored, in order to justify deregulation of a biotech crop that has limited utility to anyone except the manufacturer. You have spoken often about USDA having a role to help all farmers, both conventional and organic, and how organic agriculture helps to support local and regional food systems. How you respond to this DEIS, the first of its kind involving agricultural biotech and a perennial crop, and the 200,000 comments that USDA has received will demonstrate whether you truly want to do everything you can to support all farmers. USDA must do a better job to help organic operators coexist with those who chose other farming alternatives. We request that you fully review the facts, law, and science in this case and take the “no action” alternative to maintain the regulated status for GE alfalfa. As the 200,000 comments indicate, there is significant concern that the risks to alfalfa producers and U.S. agriculture are too great and benefits too few to allow deregulation. Sincerely, ___________________ ___________________ PATRICK LEAHY PETER DEFAZIO United States Senator Member of Congress Senator Russell D. Feingold (WI) Senator Bernard Sanders (VT) Senator Ron Wyden (OR) Senator Jon Tester (MT) Senator Sherrod Brown (OH) Rep. Michael A. Arcuri (NY-24) Rep. Tammy Baldwin (WI-2) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9) Rep. Danny K. Davis (IL-7) Rep. Susan A. Davis (CA-53) Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3) Rep. Norman D. Dicks (WA-6) Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-25) Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-5) Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17) Rep. Bob Filner (CA-51) Rep. Barney Frank (MA-4) Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-7) Rep. John J. Hall (NY-19) Rep. Martin Heinrich (NM-1) Rep. Maurice D. Hinchey (NY-22) Rep. Rush D. Holt (NJ-12) Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-1) Rep. Steve Israel (NY-2) Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich (OH-10) Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-2) Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-9) Rep. Christopher John Lee (NY-26) Rep. Nita M. Lowey (NY-18) Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-14) Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-7) Rep. James P. McGovern (MA-3) Rep. Michael H. Michaud (ME-2) Rep. George Miller (CA-7) Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4) Rep. James P. Moran (VA-8) Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-8) Rep. David R. Obey (WI-7) Rep. John W. Olver (MA-1) Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) Rep. Nick J. Rahall II (WV-3) Rep. Steven R. Rothman (NJ-9) Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-28) Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-12) Rep. Betty Sutton (OH-13) Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-1) Rep. John F. Tierney (MA-6) Rep. Peter Welch (VT-At Large) Rep. Lynn C. Woolsey (CA-6) Rep. David Wu (OR-1)
06.16.2010	June 16, 2010 Washington, D.C. - Members of Oregon’s House congressional delegation, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) and David Wu (D-Hillsdale) and led 63 members of Congress in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson challenging the agency’s decision to treat emissions from biomass the same as emissions from fossil fuels. Biomass emissions are currently treated as a renewable energy source. The action by EPA came as part of the agency’s process to create a regulatory scheme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. EPA’s decision to reclassify biomass emissions contradicts federal precedent and clear congressional intent regarding carbon neutrality and will discourage the responsible development and use of renewable biomass which could and should play a more significant role in our nation’s energy policy. In Oregon and throughout the Northwest, hundreds of thousands of tons of woody debris and waste are generated by fuel reduction or timber operations on federal lands each year. Recycling biomass to create local power makes more sense than burning it in the open and will help create jobs and stimulate rural economies. In the letter, the members of Congress requested details from EPA on its decision to reverse federal and international precedent and ignore clear congressional intent regarding biomass utilization. Specifically, the letter requests a written explanation of the decision to reconsider the treatment of emissions from biomass, a review of that decision in consultation with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and a delay in applying the new rule to biomass facilities pending the review. “Recycling wood waste from our national forests to produce local, clean energy and create rural jobs is a no-brainer,” DeFazio said. “But these efforts have been undermined by pressure from misguided environmental groups on EPA to classify renewable biomass as a pollutant on par with dirty coal. We should be working to reduce our reliance on foreign oil, developing renewable energy, and improving forest health. Biomass is critical to accomplishing all three of these goals.” “The EPA’s decision is an absurd effort to stop the development of clean and renewable woody biomass energy,” Rep. Walden said. “The technology exists and safeguards are in place to allow excess forest byproducts and small diameter thinnings from forest restoration projects to be turned into renewable energy and create new jobs in Oregon. EPA needs to tune out the nonsense coming from special interest groups who only seek to shut down any work in our choked and sick national forests. European countries have long used biomass as a clean and renewable alternative to traditional energy sources like oil. It’s time for us to catch up and start using biomass to create a healthier environment and become more energy independent at the same time.” “Last year, this Congress set a strong precedent by passing a comprehensive energy bill which recognized the potential for renewable biomass to play a vital role in our energy independent future,” said Schrader. “This bipartisan and robust letter reinforces that message. Despite the EPA breaking federal precedent and congressional intent, this Congress will fight for an energy source that decreases our dependence on foreign oil while creating much needed jobs in rural America.” “Oregon’s rural communities have been using renewable biomass for decades to provide energy for homes and industry,” said Congressman David Wu. “By encouraging the use of biomass and the development of more sustainable ways to transfer woody debris and waste into clean, local energy, we can grow businesses and create jobs in Oregon. Biomass can help move us toward a more sustainable future, but not if we restrict its use by imposing inappropriate guidelines that equate it with fossil fuels.” A copy of the full text of the letter is below: June 16, 2010 Lisa Jackson Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Room 3426 ARN Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Jackson: We are writing to express our deep disappointment and concern over the EPA’s decision in its final PSD Tailoring Rule to depart from the government’s consistent past practice of excluding biomass combustion emissions in calculating GHG emissions. This decision contradicts federal precedent regarding the carbon neutrality of biomass combustion and will discourage the responsible development and utilization of renewable biomass that could and should play a more significant role in our nation’s energy policy. The PSD Tailoring Rule defines what stationary sources will be subject to greenhouse gas (GHG) emission controls and regulations in a phase-in process beginning on January 2, 2011. In the draft Tailoring Rule, the EPA proposed to calculate a source’s GHG emissions relying on the EPA’s Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks. In the final rule, EPA ignored its own inventory and equated biogenic GHG emissions with fossil fuel emissions. The EPA’s proposal at a minimum implied, if not made it clear, that emissions from biomass combustion would not be included in the final Tailoring Rule because the EPA Inventory states biomass combustion emissions are of “biogenic origin” and are not currently included in national emissions totals. The Inventory explicitly excludes biogenic emissions because “it is assumed that the carbon released during the consumption of biomass is recycled as U.S. forests and crops regenerate, causing no net addition to carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.” The EPA’s reversal of this established position by including biomass combustion emissions in the final PSD Tailoring Rule appears to directly contradict previous EPA policy. The decision also contradicts long-standing federal and international precedents. Emissions from the combustion of biomass are not included in the Department of Energy’s voluntary greenhouse gas emissions reporting programs, the EPA’s greenhouse gas reporting rule, or calculations of international bodies including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the European Union. Moreover, when the House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security bill (H.R. 2454) in June, 2009, Congress clarified that biomass material from both private and public lands qualify as a renewable energy source. A similar definition of renewable biomass is included in the recently released discussion draft of Senator Kerry and Senator Lieberman’s American Power Act. While improvements should be made to the definition on federal lands, these definitions clearly demonstrate Congress’s commitment to and support of biomass utilization. EPA’s new interpretation undermines these objectives by arbitrarily eliminating the greenhouse gas benefits of biomass compared to conventional fossil fuels. There is enormous potential to generate renewable energy from waste products gathered on public and private lands. This includes byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels, to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or to restore forest health. Millions of acres of public and private forests generate hundreds of thousands of wood chips, slash, brush, and thinning each year. Current practice is to pile and burn this material in the open. Using biomass to produce local energy in a controlled environment at a facility outfitted with air scrubbers that comply with the Clean Air Act makes more sense than burning it in the open. Further, this would help stimulate the economies of rural communities surrounded by federal lands by creating jobs. Including biomass combustion emissions in the final PSD Tailoring Rule and potentially imposing new regulations on biomass combustion facilities will discourage the collection and transportation of woody biomass from public and private lands. Instead of encouraging the recovery of a clean, carbon neutral energy source from public and private forests, the EPA’s decision will likely result in the continuation of burning biomass material in the open. Beyond the policy and pragmatic ramifications of EPA’s new decision, it is also inconsistent with and contradictory to the well established science regarding biomass combustion. In light of the EPA’s decision to reverse federal and international precedent and ignore clear Congressional intent regarding biomass utilization, we respectfully request a written detailed response explaining your plan to reconsider the treatment of emissions of biogenic carbon dioxide under the PSD and Title V programs. In particular, we would like to understand your agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture to seek further comment on the greenhouse gas benefits of bioenergy and the specific timeline when this will take place. We expect that you will conduct this review promptly in order to avoid any adverse consequences to biomass combustion facilities. We urge you to stay the application of the rules to such facilities, pending such review. Your written response should include: 1) specific details regarding your agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture to seek further comment on the GHG benefits of bioenergy; 2) a specific timeline detailing in months when this will take place; and 3) whether you will stay the application of the rules to biomass combustion facilities pending your review. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your timely and substantive response. Sincerely, DeFazio, Schrader, Baird, Walden, Herger, McMorris Rodgers, Michaud, Glenn Thompson, Boren, Ross, Herseth Sandlin, Childers, Walter Jones, Minnick, Cohen, Simpson, Rob Bishop, Oberstar, Bright, Kagen, Larsen, Holden, Owens, Lucas, Stupak, Chris Lee, Perriello, Goodlatte, Blunt, Rehberg , Kirkpatrick, Lummis, Butterfield, Mike Rogers (MI), Scott Murphy, Barrow, Boucher, Marshall, Emerson, Wu, Capito, Bartlett, Bonner, Mike Rogers (AL), McIntyre, Harper, Sullivan, Dicks, Berry, Charles Wilson, Cole, Hodes, Griffith, Kingston, Hastings, Reichert, Aderholt, Adam Smith, Space, Alexander, Sanford Bishop, Arcuri, Spratt CC: Secretary of Agriculture Vilsack
06.15.2010	Will Boost Federal Protection Designations on more than Three Miles of River and Prevent New Mining Claims June 15, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Seeking to protect the Chetco River from expanded suction dredge mining that threatens salmon and steelhead breeding grounds, U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), and U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced bills in both the House and the Senate to permanently raise the federal protection levels of more than three miles of the river and put in place new prohibitions on future mining that will preserve the Wild and Scenic portions of the river. U.S. Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and David Wu (D-Ore.) have also cosponsored the legislation. Under the legislation simultaneously introduced in the House and the Senate, portions of the Chetco River would be upgraded from Scenic to Wild while other portions would be upgraded from Recreational to Scenic. “This legislation would protect the Chetco from the threats of out-of-state miners, preserve it for generations and save critical salmon habitat,” Wyden said. “Suction dredge mining presents a clear danger to the Chetco, and we want to do everything we can to prevent it.” “The Chetco River is one of our state’s most pristine and beautiful rivers,” DeFazio said. “It should be enjoyed by all Oregonians, not just a few dozen miners who can potentially patent mining rights on the river at 19th Century prices using 21st Century technology. This legislation will help put an end to the often illegal, sometimes violent, user conflicts between a small group of rogue miners and the general public in southwest Oregon.” “The Chetco River is one of the most endangered rivers in America and opening it up to destructive mining would put the health of the river and its fisheries at even greater risk,” said Merkley. “We have a responsibility to protect the Chetco River and prevent threats to the livelihood of Oregon’s salmon and steelhead fishermen.” The Chetco River was recently identified by American Rivers as one of the nation’s most endangered rivers. The legislation introduced by Wyden, Merkley and DeFazio would provide federal distinction for much of the Chetco river as Wild and Scenic, carrying with it protections meant to preserve the waterway. The legislation would also prohibit any new mining claims along the river and will require current claims to meet a rigorous validation process in order to have their claims maintained. Earlier this year, Senator Wyden, Senator Merkley and Representative DeFazio asked the Obama administration to exempt the Chetco River from an antiquated 1872 law that would have allowed the mining to proceed.
06.15.2010	June 15, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today sent a letter to the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) raising alarm that banks are refusing to honor their obligations to take back high loans that don’t comply with federal standards. If swift action isn’t taken, the taxpayers could be asked to pay for additional losses. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were created to promote home ownership by freeing up capital for banks to make more loans to individuals. In 2008 the taxpayers had to spend over $100 billion to keep them financially viable when the housing market collapsed. The FHFA was subsequently created to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase 70 percent of new mortgages. When they purchase mortgages from lenders, the contracts are supposed to meet certain viability standards. When they don’t meet those standards, the lending institutions are asked to buy them back. However, JP Morgan has succeeded in getting half of their repurchase demands rescinded. And Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac both have substantial amounts of outstanding repurchase requests. Oppenheimer & Co. estimates banks will be asked to repurchase an additional $21 billion of home loans this year. “If these lenders don’t meet their repurchase obligations, taxpayers will be on the hook for billions in additional losses,” DeFazio said. “It is high time that these large lending institutions own up to their reckless loans. The taxpayers are fed up with bailing out financial institutions that put profits before common sense.” DeFazio is asking the Federal Housing Finance Agency to publically post online the total value of loans lenders are being asked to repurchase because they do not meet viability underwriting standards. Additionally, he is asking FHFA to post repurchase loan demands being challenged by the lending institutions along with the demands rescinded by Fannie and Freddie. “Since the taxpayers have been asked to invest a substantial amount of their hard-earned tax dollars to help stabilize Fannie and Freddie, they deserve some transparency and accountability in how those dollars are being used,” DeFazio continued. The full text of the letter is below: Mr. Edward DeMarco, Director Federal Housing Finance Agency 1700 G St. NW Washington, D.C. 20552 Dear Mr. DeMarco, After injecting over $100 billion to keep Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac viable, taxpayers have bailout fatigue and do not support further expenditures. However, it appears that without swift action, the taxpayers are at risk of having to pay for additional losses. While I am encouraged that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have increased reviews of delinquent loans, it appears that many lending institutions refusing to honor their obligations to take back high risk loans that do not comply with federal standards. This is unacceptable and I urge you to take immediate action to address this matter. As you know, when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase loan pools from lenders, the contracts require loans to meet certain underwriting standards. When they do not meet such standards, they ask the lending institutions to buy them back. Oppenheimer & Co. estimates that banks will be asked to repurchase $21 billion of home loans this year. I was alarmed to learn that according to Charlie Scharf, JPMorgan’s head of retail banking, JPMorgan has succeeded in getting half of their repurchase demands rescinded. Equally troubling is the fact that as of March 31, Freddie Mac reported $4.8 billion in outstanding repurchasing requests that had not been fulfilled by lenders -- 34 percent of these requests have been outstanding for 90 days or more. And according to the New York Times, Fannie Mae has $1.8 billion in outstanding repurchasing requests from the first quarter in 2010. If these loans are not repurchased by lenders, taxpayers will be on the hook for billions in additional losses. It is time that the large lending institutions own up to their own reckless loans. Since the taxpayers have been asked to invest a substantial amount of their hard-earned tax dollars to help stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, they deserve some transparency in how their tax dollars are being used. I urge you to publically post online the total value of loans lenders are being asked to repurchase from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac because they do not meet underwriting standards. Additionally, I urge you to publically post repurchase loan demands being challenged by the lending institutions along with the demands rescinded by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Forcing banks to honor their obligations to repurchase problem loans serves as an important tool to ensure that faulty loans are not made in the first place and then later sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac today purchase at least 70 percent of new mortgages giving them tremendous market power. There is no reason they should accept bad mortgages at the expense of the taxpayers. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress cc: Michael Williams, CEO Fannie Mae Charles E. Haldeman, CEO Freddie Mac
05.28.2010	May 28, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-4) called on EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson to prohibit British Petroleum (BP) from using the harmful dispersant “Corexit” in the Gulf of Mexico. BP has dumped over 700,000 gallons of the petroleum-based chemical into Gulf waters in response to the recent oil spill, now believed to be the largest spill in the history of the United States. While Corexit is one of eighteen U.S. sanctioned dispersants, it is one of the most toxic and least effective products on the market. The dispersant is harmful to human health and ocean resources. The EPA directed BP to use a less toxic dispersant on May 20, 2010. BP refused to stop using Corexit and continues to release thousands of gallons of the dispersant into the Gulf every day. “It’s absolutely unacceptable that the company responsible for the worst oil spill in our nation’s history is dictating to the government what chemicals it pours into public waters. It’s even more unacceptable that the EPA is not forcing BP to use the most effective, least toxic dispersant available. This has to stop.” The text of Congressman DeFazio’s letter to Administrator Jackson is below: Lisa Jackson Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Room 3426 ARN Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Jackson: I am writing to urge you to prohibit British Petroleum (BP) from using the dispersant Corexit and demand that the company use a more effective, less toxic dispersant in the Gulf of Mexico. I was encouraged by the EPA Assessment Directive (Addendum 2) issued on May 20, 2010 requiring BP to “identify…one or more approved dispersant products from the National Contingency Plan Product Schedule that are available in sufficient quantities, are effective at dispersing the oil plume” and have a specific level of toxicity. Based on EPA’s own National Contingency Plan Product Schedule, Corexit is one of the least effective and most toxic dispersants available on the market. Allowing BP to continue to dump hundreds of thousands of gallons of the harmful Corexit into public waters when better alternatives are available is unacceptable. BP’s May 20, 2010 letter to the EPA in response to the directive was non-responsive and insulting. In the letter, BP informed the federal government they refused to stop using Corexit, offering poor excuses for failing to switch to proven alternatives. Such a response from a company responsible for the worst oil spill in our nation’s history should not be tolerated. After questioning BP President and CEO Lamar McKay in oversight hearings in both the House Transportation and Infrastructure and Natural Resources committees, it is clear to me that BP will continue to use Corexit until the EPA prohibits the company from doing so. I urge you to take immediate action to put an end to BP’s defiant and reckless use of Corexit and to replace it with a more effective, less toxic alternative. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
05.07.2010	May 7, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will today, May 10, present six Bronze Star medals, four posthumously, to U.S. Army veterans who served in combat over sixty years ago during World War II. President Roosevelt authorized the Bronze Star Medal by Executive Order in 1944 to recognize that U.S. Army ground troops endured the greatest hardships and suffered some of the heaviest losses of the war. Veterans or their family members from Albany, Coquille, Corvallis, Lebanon, and Myrtle Point will receive the Bronze Star for heroic or meritorious service in the European, African, and Pacific theaters. Brigadier General (Retired) Norm Hoffman, Oregon Army National Guard, and members of the local Army community will also attend. In recent months, Congressman DeFazio has helped qualified World War II veterans in his district receive their Bronze Star medals. Many veterans do not even know they are eligible for the award. World War II U.S. Army veterans or their family members are encouraged to contact Congressman DeFazio’s office to learn more about eligibility information and assistance with military medals. The following veterans will be honored at the ceremony: Medals recipients: Private Lloyd Marshall Private First Class Roger Petersen Posthumous Awards: Private First Class Dwight Fisher Private Herbert Groat Staff Sergeant Alfred Helget Private Lavern Noyes
05.05.2010	May 5, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio’s (D-Springfield) legislation to protect and expand the Oregon Caves National Monument passed out of the House Natural Resources Committee today. The legislation transfers approximately 4,070 acres of Forest Service managed land to the existing 480 acre Oregon Caves National Monument and designates the River Styx –the underground stream running through Oregon Caves- as the first subterranean Wild and Scenic River in the nation. “Oregon Caves is one of the most geologically unique places in the entire state of Oregon. For Oregonians, visiting and touring the caves has become a family tradition. Expanding the monument will help provide long-term protection of the monument, increase public recreational opportunities, attract tourists, and provide economic development opportunities for Cave Junction and the Illinois Valley,” said Congressman DeFazio. Expanding the monument to include the Lake Creek watershed will give the National Park Service (NPS) management responsibilities over the water resources that have a direct impact on the monument’s water supply (which serves 80,000 people annually) and the Caves’ ecosystem. The legislation also provides for the voluntary donation of grazing permits within the monument to be permanently retired by the National Park Service. Grazing in the watershed has caused water quality problems, including contamination of the Monument’s drinking water supply. The current grazing permittee, Phil Krouse, has already agreed to sell his grazing privileges within the monument. The 4,070 acre expansion will be managed as a National Preserve, which will allow the National Park Service to conduct responsible forest restoration and hazardous fuel reduction activities to prevent fire. Hunting, fishing, and trapping would also be allowed on the preserve in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. According to the city of Cave Junction, the economic development strategy of the Illinois Valley is tourism, and the Oregon Caves is the largest tourist draw in the area. More than 80,000 tourists visit Oregon Caves each year. Visitors generate hundreds of thousands of dollars in direct and indirect economic activity in the local economy. A recent survey completed by the National Park Service indicated that visitors would stay longer and visit more often if recreational opportunities around the Oregon Caves were expanded. Oregon Caves is the longest marble cave (3.5 miles) open to the public west of the Continental Divide. Recent discoveries indicate that Oregon Caves possesses a significant collection of Pleistocene fossils, including jaguar and grizzly bear. Grizzly bones that were found in the cave in 1995 were estimated to be at least 50,000 years old, the oldest known from either North or South America. The Oregon Caves National Monument also includes the Oregon Caves Chateau, which is one of the National Park system’s Great Lodges and a National Historic Landmark. The six-story hotel located on the monument has a fine dining room, a 1930’s era coffee shop, and 23 rooms. The NPS has formally proposed to expand the boundary of the Monument to encompass several other caves, as well as the surrounding Cave Creek Watershed numerous times, first in 1939, again in 1949, and most recently in 1999. DeFazio’s legislation must now be passed by the U.S. Senate before being signed into law by the president.
04.26.2010	Representatives call for full investigation of potentially fraudulent CDO products marketed by Goldman. April 26, 2010 (Washington, DC) – 58 Representatives joined Congressman Peter DeFazio of Oregon and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland in calling for a full investigation of Goldman Sachs by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) when they sent a letter to Chairwoman Mary Schapiro last Friday. DeFazio and Cummings also sent a letter to Special Inspector General for TARP, Neil Barofsky, and Professor Elizabeth Warren of the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP), requesting that SIGTARP and COP begin similar investigations. Goldman Sachs has been sued by the SEC for possible securities fraud. The SEC alleges false and materially misleading statements by the firm in the creating and marketing of ABACUS 2007-AC1, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) backed by home mortgages. There were 25 total ABACUS CDOs created. The letter asks the SEC to investigate the remaining 24 ABACUS CDOs for similar fraud. It asks that the SEC identify the extent to which AIG paid out on credit default swaps purchased by Goldman Sachs and to ensure the taxpayers receive refunds on any AIG money received by Goldman Sachs on fraudulent premises. “From the beginning, I’ve thought that the deal Goldman Sachs got via then President of the NY Federal Reserve Tim Geithner on their bad bets through AIG kind of stunk,” DeFazio says. “They got $13 billion from AIG last year. I’m looking for any legal way to recoup that money for the people of the United States.” “We’ve got to look into every aspect of these deals and figure out exactly what went wrong,” said Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “If people were participating in any type of fraudulent activity we need to expose it and they need to be brought to justice. We also need to get our money back.” DeFazio and Cummings announced their request for an expanded SEC investigation last week. The Democratic Members who have agreed to sign the letter alongside Cummings and DeFazio are: Dennis Cardoza, Stephanie Herseth Sandlin, John Conyers, John Dingell, George Miller, Ike Skelton, Jackie Speier, Brad Miller, John Garamendi, Keith Ellison, Marcy Kaptur, Christopher Carney, Gene Taylor, Stephen Lynch, Bill Pascrell, Peter Welch, Chellie Pingree, Phil Hare, Betty Sutton, Betsy Markey, Pete Stark, John Tierney, David Loebsack, Carol Shea-Porter, Mazie Hirono, Bob Filner, Jesse Jackson, Jr., Maurice Hinchey, Michael Capuano, Michael Michaud, Brian Baird, Dennis Kucinich, Joe Baca, Timothy Walz, Bennie Thompson, Mike Thompson, Earl Blumenauer, Lynn Woolsey, Dale Kildee, Bart Stupak, Mark Schauer, Raul Grijalva, Betty McCollum, Linda Sanchez, Martin Heinrich, Lois Capps, Anna Eshoo, Joe Donnelly, Barbara Lee, Alan Grayson, Steven Rothman, Dina Titus, Tim Ryan, Tom Perriello, Jan Schakowsky, Lloyd Doggett, Bruce Braley, and Mary Jo Kilroy
04.21.2010	April 20, 2010 Washington, D.C. -- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) this week sent a second letter to Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack calling on the Obama administration to take immediate action to protect three natural treasures in southwest Oregon from mining activity. In the letter, DeFazio, Wyden and Merkley urged the administration to withdraw 19 miles of the Chetco River, the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed, and the Baldface Creek Watershed in the Siskiyous Wild Rivers area from mineral entry under the Mining Act of 1872. An administrative withdrawal would prohibit both new mining claims and continued mining on invalid claims- claims that have not been proven to be profitable. More than 800 new mining claims have been filed in the Siskiyou Wild Rivers area under the Mining Act of 1872, a federal law that has gone largely unchanged in over 130 years and allows individuals to claim public land for as little as $2.50 per acre. The recent ban on suction dredging on California’s rivers will drive miners to the rivers, streams, and public lands of Oregon, which lack protections similar to California’s. Hundreds of miners have already staked out – but not yet validated - claims along the Chetco River, Rough and Ready Creek, and Baldface Creek. Increased mining activity in one of Oregon’s most ecologically diverse areas has led to angry, and even violent, conflicts between miners and the general public. An Oregon man was recently shot and lost his arm after one such conflict; in another, a group of Oregon hikers who planned a trip on public lands were physically threatened and intimidated. “Not only is mining in these areas ecologically damaging but, it is clear from recent conflicts that it poses a physical threat to the residents of the southwest Oregon. Given this potential danger, it is imperative that mining in this area stop for the immediate future until Congress can come up with a long-term solution,” DeFazio said. “Laws written in 1872 aren’t going to protect public lands in 2010,” Wyden said. “It is important to Oregon and to the nation that Secretaries Salazar and Vilsack take a serious look at protecting these important areas while Congress acts to update a 130-year-old law.” “The destruction of our waterways is an unacceptable price of mining Southern Oregon,” Merkley said. “The mining prohibition that Representative DeFazio, Senator Wyden, and I are requesting will protect the trout fishing areas, salmon runs, and watersheds that make this region such an amazing outdoor haven.” This is the second letter DeFazio, Wyden, and Merkley have sent to the Obama administration. The first urged the administration to consider broader protection from mining activity in the Siskiyou Wild Rivers area. The administration responded to the first letter by vaguely reassuring the three elected officials the federal government could protect the area using “existing federal laws and regulations.” The second letter urges the Obama administration to reconsider given the real and immediate threats mining activity poses to the natural resource values of the Chetco River, the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed, and the Baldface Creek Watershed. DeFazio, Wyden, and Merkley are calling for an administrative time out on mining activity in these three areas while Congress considers a long term strategy to protect Oregon’s treasures. The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Ken Salazar The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary Secretary U.S. Department of Interior U.S. Department of Agriculture 1849 C St., NW 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20240 Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Salazar and Secretary Vilsack: We are writing to you for a second time to strongly urge you to use your authorities under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act to administratively withdraw three sensitive areas from mineral entry in southwest Oregon: approximately 19 miles of the Scenic and Recreational segments of the Chetco River, the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed, and the Baldface Creek Watershed. On November 12, 2009, we wrote to you requesting your assistance in protecting these unique, biological diverse and threatened areas of southwest Oregon. At that time we impressed upon you the importance of the region and the immediate need to administratively withdraw these areas from mining activity under the Mining Law of 1872. We impressed upon you to reconsider reinstatement of the Clinton withdrawal for the Rogue-River Siskiyou National Forest and adjacent lands. On March 01, 2010 – nearly four months after sending our joint letter - the USDA responded by stating these areas were already “adequately protected from the surface impacts of mining operations by enforcing existing Federal laws and regulations.” On March 18, 2010, BLM indicated that there was “little interest” in locating new mining claims in the Siskiyou Rivers area. We believe that, particularly in view of the President Obama’s new America’s Great Outdoors Initiative, your agencies are underestimating the critical and immediate threats to this area. We have attached a number of recent editorials and news articles from Oregon press outlets to underscore our belief that these areas are not receiving adequate protection and the need for immediate administrative action remains. As you can see from the attached press clips, the protection of the Chetco River, the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed, and the Baldface Creek Watershed are broadly supported in our communities and state. More than 800 new mining claims have been filed in southwest Oregon under the Mining Law of 1872 over the last decade. The recent ban on suction dredge mining in California combined with high prices for minerals has created a new gold rush in a corner of our home state, which happens to be one of the most ecologically diverse places in the United States. Immediate administrative action is needed to protect these areas and to reduce user conflicts between miners and the general public before the mining season opens in a few months. The Chetco River serves as pristine habitat for threatened fish species, like the Coho salmon, and provides an important water source for the cities of Brookings and Harbor on the Oregon coast. The Chetco River has also served as a significant economic driver for local communities given the river’s extraordinary recreational opportunities such as fishing, hiking, and rafting. An administrative withdrawal of approximately 19 miles of the Chetco River within the boundaries of the Rogue-Siskiyou National Forest is needed to give Congress time to act on the Forest Service’s own recommendations documented in the agency’s 1993 Management Plan for the National Wild and Scenic Chetco River. In addition to the Forest Service’s recommendation to Congress, which would result in the withdrawal of two miles of the Chetco under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, the management plan also recommended the administrative withdrawal of the Scenic segment of the Chetco. Congressional designation of the Chetco River will take time; we need your assistance in preserving the resource values of the Chetco River through an administrative withdrawal until Congress can legislate a long-term solution. The Rough and Ready Creek Watershed is one of the most botanically diverse areas on the West Coast and is eligible to be added to the National Wild and Scenic River System. The Forest Service has already contributed substantial resources to studying the area and has confirmed that the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed contains “incredible natural values” and mining in the area would result in “irreversible and significant” impacts. The unique resource values of the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed are threatened by the prospect of a large nickel mining operation. This operation has been widely opposed by the local population due to its potential health and environmental impacts and cost to taxpayers. In 2003 through 2005, the Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service spent hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars to conduct a complex mineral exam of the 161 mining claims in the area. The claims were found not valid. Despite this great expense to the public, the area remains open to new mining claims – which could result in additional mining proposals and possibly set up another round of expensive and duplicative mineral exams and mining plan analysis at great cost to taxpayers. The Baldface Creek Watershed is situated within the Forest Service’s Recommended Wilderness Addition to the Kalmiopsis Wilderness and is also eligible to be added to the National Wild and Scenic River System. The Baldface Creek Watershed is one of the most pristine and secluded areas in the state and is an important tributary of the Smith River. Large blocks of nickel laterite claims and the potential for new claims pose an immediate threat to this incredible roadless area and some of the best remaining freshwater steelhead habitat on the West Coast. Given the unique and valuable resource values of these areas, the immediate and serious threat they face, and the overwhelming public support for action, we strongly urge you to reconsider administratively withdrawing from mineral entry approximately 19 miles of the Chetco River, the Rough and Ready Creek Watershed, and the Baldface Creek Watershed. An administrative withdrawal will give Congress the time it needs to provide the necessary long term protections these Oregon treasures need and deserve. We look forward to your timely and meaningful response to this second letter. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Ron Wyden Jeff Merkley Member of Congress Senator Senator
04.20.2010	Credits are Retroactive to the Beginning of This Year April 20, 2010 Washington, D.C. -- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today announced that Oregon companies eligible for new health reform tax credits will soon be getting a postcard explaining the credits and encouraging them to take advantage of the tax cut. “It is important that small businesses in Oregon, many of whom are struggling in a stagnant economy, be aware of the potential tax benefits of the health insurance reform package. I have heard from countless small business owners who have been struggling for years to provide health insurance for their employees but, due to the ever increasing cost of insurance can no longer afford to cover their employees or have had to cut back on benefits. This tax credit will provide them with some much needed relief,” DeFazio said. The tax credit is available to small businesses with 25 or fewer employees and an average wage of $50,000 or less that provide health insurance for their employees. Companies with 10 or fewer employees and an average wage of $25,000 or less get the maximum credit—35% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit rises to 50% in 2014. The tax credit is also available to small non-profits. For non-profits, the tax credit is worth up to 25% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit for non-profits rises to 35% in 2014. The tax credits are available now and will be retroactive to the beginning of this tax year. Beginning this week, the IRS is mailing more than 4 million postcards to small businesses around the country to help ensure that they realize they may qualify for the credit immediately. The IRS provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions on the tax credits at their website: https://www.irs.gov
04.16.2010	Congressmen call for full investigation of potentially fraudulent CDO products marketed by Goldman. April 16, 2010 (Washington, DC) – Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today asked their colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join them in calling for a full investigation of Goldman Sachs by the Securities and Exchange Commission. “The taxpayers are frustrated by the massive bailout of Wall Street, while unemployment lags and banks resist lending,” Cummings and DeFazio note in a letter urging their colleagues to join them in their request to Mary Shapiro, Chairwoman of the SEC. “Taxpayers have rightly viewed the bailout of AIG with suspicion. Join us in calling for an expanded SEC investigation to retrieve any fraudulently obtained taxpayer dollars by Goldman Sachs via AIG.” Goldman Sachs has been sued by the SEC for possible securities fraud. The SEC alleges false and materially misleading statements by the firm in the creation and marketing of ABACUS 2007-AC1, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) backed by home mortgages. There were 25 total ABACUS CDOs created by Goldman Sachs. According to a suit brought against Goldman Sachs by the SEC, the CDO ABACUS 2007-AC1 was created when John Paulson, a private hedge fund investor, approached Goldman about making short (negative) bets against the housing market. Goldman agreed, and hired ACA Management to create the package of bonds. ACA believed Paulson was positive on the housing bonds, and found no conflict in accepting his input into the selection of housing bonds for the ABACUS CDO. The ABACUS CDO was then marketed to investors as a package of bonds selected by independent professionals at ACA, lacking any mention of Paulson’s involvement. Seven of these CDOs were insured by AIG and their failure was a significant factor in the AIG collapse that taxpayers are on the hook for. If Goldman Sachs was fraudulent in any of those seven AIG deals, the SEC has the authority to recover those illicit gains. The potentially fraudulent actions by Goldman Sachs affect not only Wall Street, but every taxpayer whose money went to help recapitalize AIG, through the nearly $180 billion bailout provided by the federal government to that firm. DeFazio and Cummings want to give every Representative an opportunity to join their request. “This type of potentially fraudulent activity must be investigated. In the wake of the absurd $180 billion AIG bailout, we have an opportunity, and an obligation to try to recoup tax-payer money from Goldman Sachs, who profited immensely as the economy nosedived.” DeFazio noted. “We’ve got to look into every aspect of these deals and figure out exactly what went wrong,” said Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in an interview with the New York Times on Sunday. “If people were participating in any type of fraudulent activity we need to expose it and they need to be brought to justice and we need to get our money back.” Several Representatives have already signed onto the letter as of Monday afternoon.
04.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) were joined by more than 25 of their colleagues today in sending a bipartisan letter to Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt and Ranking Member Paul Ryan requesting funding for county payments. The letter urges the Budget Committee to include language in the FY 2011 House Budget Resolution that would establish a deficit-neutral fund to provide for possible changes to or reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) and Self Determination Act of 2000. “During tough economic times, Congress should not leave America’s rural communities behind,” said Schrader. “The reauthorization of this act is imperative to our rural communities here in Oregon. Many of our towns depend on county timber payments to fund our schools and roads. The Secure Rural Schools and Self Determination Act ensures that necessary funds get to our rural communities so they can fund basic needs.” “Without a meaningful, long-term solution to Secure Rural Schools funding, counties in southwest Oregon will be forced to lay off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy – we will lose sheriff patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services. This will be particularly devastating to timber dependent communities where the real unemployment rate is already at over 20 percent. Including language in the House Budget Resolution is the first step in working towards a bipartisan, long-term solution that provides rural communities with a basic level of economic security,” DeFazio said. SRS, commonly referred to as the county payments program, will provide more than $200 million to 33 Oregon counties in fiscal year 2010 for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. The SRS program expired in 2006 and the following year, Congress passed a one-year extension to help rural counties avert a major financial crisis. In October 2008 Congress reauthorized the SRS legislation for four years as part of HR 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The reauthorization provides rural counties with four years of payments on a declining scale for fiscal years 2008-2011. While the four year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Self Determination Act was a monumental legislative accomplishment that helped preserve jobs and vital services across America, rural counties will once again face a budgetary cliff after they receive the final SRS payment in fiscal year 2011. The inclusion of this language in the Budget Resolution for FY 2011 would demonstrate Congress’s commitment and responsibility to the economic security and sustainability of Oregon’s rural communities. Without a long-term solution, communities will be unable to provide vital public services such as education and law enforcement. The full text of the letter is below: April 14, 2010 The Honorable John M. Spratt The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Chairman Ranking Member House Committee on the Budget House Committee on the Budget 207 Cannon House Office Building B71 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Spratt and Ranking Member Ryan: We are writing to request that you include the following language in the fiscal year 2011 House Budget Resolution. This language would establish a deficit-neutral reserve fund to provide for possible changes to or reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) and Self Determination Act of 2000 (P.L. 94-565) in fiscal year 2011. At the turn of the 20th Century, there was mounting opposition in Congress to the creation of forest reserves (now national forests). Congress realized that, due to the amount of private land taken out of economic development and a subsequent lack of tax revenues, the creation of public land would make it difficult for counties to provide basic services— namely schools and roads. To offset these effects, Congress passed the 1908 Act that specified 25 percent of all revenues generated from the national forests be shared with the counties where those revenues were generated to support public roads and schools. From 1986 to the present, these revenues, due to changes in federal forest policy and declining timber sales, have decreased precipitously (as much as 99 percent in some communities and on average by 70 percent nationwide). Responding to this urgent need, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000. For many rural counties once dependent on timber revenue, Secure Rural Schools payments are the lifeblood of local schools and communities. This legislation also created highly successful “Resource Advisory Committees,” which have brought polarized groups together to conduct hundreds of restoration projects on national forests across the country without being litigated. In 2007, the House and Senate reauthorized this important law passing a one-year extension of SRS payments to help rural counties avert a major financial crisis. In October 2008, Congress reauthorized the SRS legislation for four years as part of HR 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The reauthorization provides rural counties with four years of payments on a declining scale for fiscal years 2008-2011. While the four year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Self Determination Act was a monumental legislative accomplishment that helped preserve and create jobs across America, rural counties will once again face a budgetary cliff after they receive the final SRS payment in fiscal year 2011. In response to this ongoing issue, we need a meaningful and long-term solution that will help ensure rural communities have the resources they need to provide basic county services. Congress made a promise to these counties more than 100 years ago and we intend to do all that we can do make sure Congress keeps that promise. Including the following language in the fiscal year 2011 House Budget Resolution will demonstrate Congress’s commitment and responsibility to the economic security and sustainability of our rural communities. Proposed language for the FY2011 House Budget Resolution: SEC. XXX. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR INVESTMENTS IN OUR NATION'S COUNTIES AND SCHOOLS. The chairman of the House Committee on the Budget may revise the allocations of a committee or committees, aggregates, and other appropriate levels and limits in this resolution for one or more bills, joint resolutions, amendments, motions, or conference reports that make changes to or provide for the reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-393) or make changes to the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-565), or both, by the amounts provided by that legislation for those purposes, provided that such legislation would not increase the deficit over either the period of the total of fiscal years 2010 through 2015 or the period of the total of fiscal years 2010 through 2020. Given your long history of supporting Secure Rural Schools legislation and your commitment to rural communities, we look forward to working with you on this critically important issue. Thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, PETER DEFAZIO KURT SCHRADER GREG WALDEN TRAVIS CHILDERS MIKE ROSS MIKE SIMPSON BRIAN BAIRD ANN KIRKPATRICK DEBBIE HALVORSON DOC HASTINGS STEPHANIE HERSETH SANDLIN WALLY HERGER BENNIE THOMPSON HARRY TEAGUE DAVID WU WALT MINNICK JIM MATHESON DANIEL LUNGREN DON YOUNG GENE TAYLOR BEN RAY LUJAN RICK BOUCHER CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS RAUL GRIJALVA TOM MCCLINTOCK JOHN SALAZAR MARTIN HEINRICH
04.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) today led seventy eight Members of Congress in sending a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood and US Trade Representative Ronald Kirk. The letter asks that they renegotiate the section of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that opens U.S. roadways to unsafe Mexican trucks. “Mexico has no meaningful system for commercial driver’s licenses, drug testing or hours of service. This is a trade agreement that threatens the safety of the American public. Mexico has no right to use tariffs to force unsafe trucks with exhausted over-worked, under-paid drivers into the United States,” DeFazio said. Objection to the Bush Administration’s cross border trucking program was predominantly due to Mexico’s less stringent regulations on hours-of-service, vehicle safety, and driver training and licensing. This poses a threat to the traveling American public. Congress has repeatedly and overwhelmingly rejected the cross-border program because it failed to adequately protect Americans from unsafe Mexican trucking standards. In a Congress that rarely agrees on anything, this issue has unified Democrats and Republicans on both sides of the Hill. “The Obama Administration proposal has not been made public and I have not seen it but, I am skeptical that Congress will approve any program of this kind. The safety concerns are just too big an obstacle to overcome. This section of NAFTA is just unacceptable and cannot be remedied with tinkering at the edges. I believe the solutions offered in this letter will be more fruitful for the Administration,” DeFazio continued. NAFTA does not bind the U.S. to accept subpar safety standards; however, the Mexican government is insisting the U.S. move forward with cross-border trucking and has instituted retaliatory, politically aimed tariffs until the program is in place. The letter offers the only workable solution to the current grid lock on the issue: renegotiate the flawed section of NAFTA (section U.S. NAFTA Annex I (I-U-21)) which requires a commitment to liberalize cross-border trucking. This would remedy all the truck safety, homeland security, and unemployment issues associated with this long standing trade dispute. A successful renegotiation would also eliminate the tariffs, which are negatively impacting the export markets in the United States. The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington DC 20590 The Honorable Ronald Kirk Ambassador The United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, NW Washington DC 20508 April 14, 2010 Dear Secretary LaHood and Ambassador Kirk: You recently received a letter from 56 Members of Congress stressing the need to resolve the retaliatory Mexican tariffs stemming from Congress’s overwhelming rejection of the cross-border demonstration program. We wholeheartedly agree that the U.S. must find a way to eliminate these excessive, arbitrary, and political tariffs. However, we caution the Administration that we firmly believe it would be difficult, if not impossible, to receive Congressional support for a cross-border trucking program that allows tens of thousands of Mexican trucks traveling across the lower 48 states. NAFTA does not bind the U.S. to accept subpar safety standards, and Congress is not going to waive our rights under NAFTA. We are entitled to require comparable standards for safety from Mexican trucking companies. Their standards are not even close to equivalent to U.S safety requirements. The addition of tens of thousands of substandard Mexican trucks to our roads would jeopardize the safety of our traveling public. Given these constraints, we offer you a solution that has a greater likelihood of success. We believe the U.S. should renegotiate U.S. NAFTA Annex I (I-U-21), the U.S. commitment to liberalize cross-border trucking, and thus eliminate the requirement to open our borders to Mexican trucks. This would remedy all the truck safety, homeland security, and unemployment issues associated with this long standing trade dispute. A successful renegotiation would also eliminate retaliatory tariffs, which are negatively impacting our export markets. The current system works well. US trucking firms have testified they have no desire to enter Mexico and become a prized target in the ongoing drug war in Mexico. They have raised legitimate concerns about hijackings, extortion and theft. They are confident the existing current 20 mile commercial border zone is superior to the proposed full cross border program. As the following timeline demonstrates, Congress has repeatedly and overwhelmingly rejected the cross-border program because it failed to adequately protect Americans from unsafe Mexican trucking standards. In a Congress that rarely agrees on anything, this issue has unified Democrats and Republicans on both sides of the Hill. In May of 2007, the House voted overwhelmingly, 411-3, to pass H.R. 1773, the Safe American Roads Act of 2007. This legislation would have imposed additional restrictions on the cross-border demonstration program and ensured that DOT establish a process to analyze the impact of allowing Mexican trucks on our nation's roadways before the border is permanently opened Then-Representative LaHood voted for this bill. The FY 2007 Iraq War Supplemental spending bill (P.L. 110-28) included strict measures to ensure that the demonstration program adhered to safety and security guidelines and required that its progress be assessed by an independent panel. In 2008, both the House and Senate both passed amendments to the FY 2008 Transportation spending bill to prohibit the use of federal funds to implement the Cross Border Truck Safety Inspection Program. Both then-Senator Obama and Representative LaHood supported these amendments. Ultimately, the prohibition was included in the FY 2008 Omnibus Appropriations Act (P.L. 110-161). Finally Congress terminated the cross-border demonstration program in the FY2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act (P.L. 111-8). Congress has repeatedly objected to the demonstration program because Mexico has not met U.S. safety standards. Mexican access to U.S roadways is dependent on carriers proving they meet U.S. safety standards regarding hours of service, driver training, licensing, drug testing and vehicle safety. However, there has been no comprehensive independent review to assess whether Mexico's vehicle standards and driver licensing and safety rules are equivalent to the requirements of U.S. law. The cross-border demonstration program was a poor test of the true level of safety that will be seen among Mexico domiciled carriers if the border is opened. The DOT IG’s February, 2009 report found that the low rate of participation in long haul operations among Mexican carriers “was not adequate to provide statistically valid findings that will allow FMCSA to project safety performance of the pool of applicants for long haul operating authority.” Further, the IG found that “participants were not representative of Mexican carriers likely to conduct long-haul operations” in terms of certain business characteristics and in terms of safety history. Specifically, vehicle and driver out-of-service rates for pilot program participants were lower, by a statistically significant margin, than other Mexican carriers that currently operate in the United States in the commercial zone or under grandfather rights. In other words, the IG substantiated the fact that DOT cherry picked the safest carriers to participate in the pilot. Removing the cross border trucking provision from NAFTA will also prevent more job losses at a time when we can least afford them. Should the border be fully opened to Mexican trucks, the low wages of Mexican drivers will drive U.S trucking companies out of business. This continues a disturbing trend of American job losses through outsourcing. The difference is that we are allowing foreign workers making foreign wages to enter our nation and unfairly compete for American jobs. Opening our border to Mexican trucks is a lose-lose for U.S. workers and the traveling public. It is clear the easiest path to eliminating the retaliatory Mexican tariffs is to renegotiate U.S. NAFTA Annex I (I-U-21). Thank you for your attention to our concerns and we look forward to a prompt reply. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Duncan Hunter Gene Taylor James Oberstar Brad Sherman John Duncan Ed Whitfield Gene Green Walter Jones George Miller Thaddeus McCotter Louise Slaughter Ted Poe Collin Peterson Barney Frank Mike Michaud Jim Marshall Phil Hare Jerry Cotello Charlie Melancon Bob Filner Larry Kissell Tim Holden Steve Kagen Leonard Boswell Mike Doyle Betty Sutton Mark Schauer Brian Baird Tim Bishop Mazie Hirono Daniel Lipinski Peter Welch John Garamendi Marcy Kaptur Bruce Braley Nick Rahall Peter Visclosky David Wu John Boccieri Jason Altmire Russ Carnahan Pete Stark James McGovern Michael Arcuri Christopher Carney Heath Shuler Tim Walz Maurice Hinchey Bill Pascrell Brian Higgins Alan Mollohan Lynn Woolsey Grace Napolitano Shelley Berkley Dave Loebsack Dennis Kucinich Barbara Lee Michael Capuano Dennis Moore Rick Boucher Chellie Pingree Keith Ellison Joe Baca Patrick Murphy Janice Schakowsky Loretta Sanchez Carol Shea-Porter Betty McCollum Linda Sánchez Tammy Baldwin Paul Tonko Kathy Dahlkemper Bart Stupak Jerrold Nadler Mary Jo Kilroy Jerry McNerney Tim Ryan
04.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent a letter to Governor Kulongoski, urging him to push state agencies to reach a resolution with the federal government on a disposal site for materials dredged from the Siuslaw River. The Coast Guard has warned that the lack of dredging of the Siuslaw River is of concern and may affect Coast Guard operations. The Port of Siuslaw has received nearly $2.2 million in federal funds to dredge the mouth and channel of the river, including $1.5 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) to also dredge the turning basin. However, there is currently no disposal site for the dredged materials. The current disposal site has been in use since 1929 but is no longer viable due to regulatory changes. State and federal agencies have not been able to come to agreement on a new disposal site and if a resolution is not reached before April 19th, the Port will lose the ARRA funds. DeFazio has a long history during his time in Congress of fighting for and securing federal funds for dredging. He has consistently secured funds to do this vital work, despite the inability of past administrations to budget for even the most modest of dredging projects along Oregon’s south coast. Failure to dredge the Port of Siuslaw is dangerous, could limit port use and would be financially devastating to this community. The letter is below: Governor Kulongoski 900 Court Street Salem, OR 97301 Dear Governor Kulongoski: I am writing regarding the unresolved status of a disposal site for dredge material at the Port of Siuslaw. I am troubled to learn that after working for nearly a year, and after spending over $385,000 in federal funds, federal agencies have been unable to garner an agreement with state agencies on a permanent disposal site, potentially leading to the loss of an additional $1.5 million in federal funds. I have worked diligently during my tenure in Congress to secure federal funds to dredge small ports along Oregon’s south coast. Since I entered Congress, every administration, regardless of party, has failed to budget needed funds for even the most modest of dredging projects in this area. I have had to fight nearly every year to secure funds in the congressional budget process for this work. These federal funds are essential to keep our ports open and safe, and to ensure Oregon’s coastal communities are able to thrive. The port has gone without extensive dredging along its channel since 1974, and has only had the funds to do maintenance dredging in the 1980s and in 1995. The U.S. Coast Guard is very concerned about the conditions in the channel and the turning basin. The Port of Siuslaw has received nearly $2.2 million in federal funds to dredge the mouth and channel of the river, including nearly $1.5 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds to also dredge the turning basin. This long-overdue dredging is sorely needed to maintain the safety and navigability of the port. I have fought to keep ARRA funds on Oregon’s south coast and the port is currently at-risk of losing those ARRA funds if they aren’t obligated by April 19th. I am aware the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has exhausted its two five-year temporary designations for a disposal site. The USACE and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) have had no trouble at other Oregon ports facing similar deadlines to come to resolution on a permanent disposal site. In this instance, the inability to reach agreement with state partners is risking funds for this dredging. For the last 30 years, the Port of Siuslaw and the USACE have used the same disposal site, and have received letters of consistency from the State of Oregon for this purpose. The site was even used as a disposal site as far back as 1929. While I do not expect state agencies to simply designate the same disposal site without review, I do expect that after a year of work at tremendous public cost, combined with the potential loss of hard won dredging funds, the parties work in earnest to come to a workable solution. I am confident your leadership will help the parties find an agreement that meets environmental requirements and also allows this dredging to go forward without losing critical federal dollars in the process. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress
04.02.2010	April 21, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced he is accepting entries for the Annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students. To solicit entries, DeFazio has sent letters with the competition guidelines and entry forms to high schools in his congressional district. Any high school student in the Fourth Congressional District may submit artwork for consideration. "The competition is a unique opportunity for young artists to gain experience showing their work," said DeFazio. “I have been very impressed with past entries, and I look forward to seeing more great work from young Oregon artists enter this year. I encourage aspiring artists to enter.” The annual Congressional High School Art Competition is coordinated by Members of Congress. Each year, Members conduct local art competitions in their districts. The winning piece of art from each district is put on display as part of the national exhibition in the Cannon Tunnel, a pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol, in Washington, D.C.. Since the competition was first launched in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. The annual display of art from the competition is one of the most popular sites in the Capitol with tourists and other visitors. Artwork may consist of paintings, collages, mixed media, photography or even computer generated art. Each entry must be an original in concept, design and execution. The artwork must arrive at DeFazio’s Eugene District office by Friday, April 30, to be considered. High school students, parents, or teachers may contact DeFazio's office at 1-800-944-9603 to obtain guidelines and entry forms.
03.31.2010	WOMEN’S AIR FORCE SERVICE PILOTS RECEIVE HONOR FOR THEIR BRAVE SERVICE DURING WWII March 31, 2010 Washington, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today joined with his colleagues in honoring, , the brave women who served as Women’s Air Force Service Pilots (WASPs) during World War II with a Congressional Gold Medal. DeFazio was particularly pleased to recognize Kathryn Miles of Eugene. “Answering our country’s call at one of the most desperate times in our nation’s history, these women served their country during WWII,” DeFazio said. “The service and sacrifice of these brave women played a vital role in the country’s war effort. This award is much deserved and long over-due. These inspiring women also set the stage for generations to come, paving the way for future female soldiers. It is with great pride that I join with my colleagues in recognizing Kathryn Miles and the other WASPs for their distinguished service.” The WASP organization was officially formed in August of 1943. These brave women served our nation by ferrying aircraft, including bombers and fighters; towing targets for gunnery; and as instrument instructors in the Eastern Flying Training Command. Jacqueline Cochran, the WASP director, and General Arnold hoped to militarize and commission the WASPs, but by late 1944 the improving military situation and lower than expected attrition rates among male pilots reduced the need for female pilots, and the WASP organization was terminated. WASPs remained civil service employees who did not receive the pay and benefits given to male pilots sharing the same risks. Finally, in 1977, congress passed and President Carter signed legislation which granted WASPs veteran status, although with limited benefits. By mere coincidence, this was in the same year that the Air Force graduated its first female pilots. Kathryn Miles largely retired from flying after the war, but she counts fellow WASPs among her close friends. After she left the WASPs, she was married in Alaska and later moved to Eugene where she taught in the Bethel School District. She is the mother of four children. Her son joined her in Washington, D.C. for the award ceremony. She recounted some of the more exciting moments of her career as a WASP to Congressman DeFazio this morning at a breakfast honoring Oregon’s WASPs. Pictures of the two of them at the event can be found at: https://www.defazio.house.gov/index.php?option=com_joomgallery&func=detail&id=183&Itemid=65#joomimg
03.24.2010	March 24, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted to bring relief to millions of Americans one catastrophic illness or accident away from personal bankruptcy. The health care reform bill, which passed the House of Representatives tonight, will improve the health care coverage of all Oregonians. For those who have health insurance they like, they can keep it. Those who don’t have health insurance will have better, more affordable options to get it. And, for the nearly 600,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Oregon, they will have better benefits and improved access to health care services. The bill outlaws the worst abuses of the insurance and pharmaceutical industries: no more discrimination by insurance companies for preexisting conditions, cancellation of a policy if the person becomes sick, small print, life time caps on health care coverage or health care coverage exclusions for specific health problems. It reduces the deficit, provides stability and security for Americans who currently have health insurance, and affordable, quality options for those who don't. “Our health care system is broken. It is failing too many people. It is morally wrong that in the United States of America, too many of our families and friends are so vulnerable to the whims of the insurance and pharmaceutical industries, which are more interested in protecting their obscene profits than the health care of hard working Americans and seniors,” DeFazio said. “This bill is a huge relief for the woman who recently contacted me to tell me that her medical bills cost more each month than her mortgage and she is not sure how much longer she will be able to afford her home. This bill will help the woman I met who had an individual insurance policy, on which she had faithfully paid her premiums, and was refused a renewal when she was diagnosed with cancer. She was told ‘sorry, we don’t renew policies of people with cancer. Thank you very much for your premiums.’ For her, this legislation will finally put an end to that type of abusive practice. This bill will help the gentleman I met at the unemployment office who had rights to purchase health care under COBRA but the cost was three quarters of his unemployment benefits. His wife was deathly ill. This was a tough guy, and he cried right there in public in that unemployment office. That won’t happen again because of this legislation. That gentleman will no longer be forced to choose between keeping his home, feeding his family and getting his wife the health care she needs. This bill will help people like the woman who attended one of my town hall meetings last summer who has cancer and cannot afford health care coverage for both herself and her disabled son. She was preparing to die and worried that her disabled son would no longer have a care giver or health care coverage when she is gone. This bill means she will get the care she needs, and so will her son. For them, and others in similar circumstances, this bill means life and peace of mind,” DeFazio continued. “The passage of this bill is a momentous event. This bill ends the worst abuses of the insurance industry and improves health care for all Oregonians. No more pre-existing condition exclusions or denials; no more cancellations or non-renewals of your policy because you, or an employee at the business where you work, becomes seriously ill; no more annual or lifetime caps and coverage exclusions hidden in the small print. These reforms will put an end to families being bankrupted when someone gets sick. This bill also includes a provision that is particularly important for seniors in Oregon and 16 other states. It fixes a faulty outdated Medicare reimbursement formula which unfairly punishes 17 states. Oregon suffers from one of the lowest Medicare reimbursement rates in the country, despite being one of the highest quality, best outcomes providers of medical care to seniors in the country. This is wrong. The practical effect is that more and more seniors in my district and across Oregon are being told, ‘sorry, we don’t take Medicare, it doesn’t come close to paying what it costs to provide care, and we simply can’t afford it.’ I’ve been working for more than a decade to correct this inequity. It does not cost three times as much to do an appendectomy in Miami as it does in Eugene. I worked with other members of the Oregon delegation and members from other low cost, as well as high cost states and reached an agreement which will give Oregon and 16 other states fair reimbursement rates. Over the last year I have heard from tens of thousands of Oregonians on all sides of this debate. People are passionate about health care. It is a very personal issue. Though this bill is a huge step forward, it is not perfect. It does not have enough cost controls. But, if nothing is done, the greedy insurance and pharmaceutical companies will continue to do whatever they want to protect their obscene profits at the expense of people’s lives, health care and well-being. This bill is an important first step towards shutting down the special interests and putting the well being of people first. However, more needs to be done. I would have liked for it to include my legislation to take away the insurance industry’s unfair federal anti-trust exemption. This legislation was included in the House passed bill last fall and passed by the House of Representatives as stand-alone legislation by a vote of 406 to 19 earlier this year. I am committed to working with my colleagues until the price gouging and colluding by the health insurance industry comes to an end,” DeFazio concluded. Lowers the deficit Some of those opposed to the health reform bill have said it is just too expensive and will add a huge amount of money to the deficit. This is false. The bill will actually save money. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the bill will actually reduce the deficit by $143 billion over the first ten years (2010-2019). It accomplishes this by targeting waste, fraud, and inefficiency in private Medicare Advantage plans and Medicaid. These savings are also accomplished through adding fees to the pharmaceutical industry, limiting tax deductions for executive CEO’s, a Medicare payroll tax on individual income over $200,000, and a small tax on the unearned income of investors who earn over $250,000 a year. Improve your health insurance Under the bill, insurance companies would no longer be able to deny coverage to a person based on a “pre-existing condition” such as diabetes, high blood pressure or family history. Insurance companies would also no longer be able to cancel coverage because a person became ill. This will benefit the nearly 16,000 people in southwest Oregon who currently cannot get care because of pre-existing conditions. Provides better access to YOUR doctor The legislation is not a government takeover of health care. It will not get between anyone and their doctor. If you have insurance, you can keep your current plan. It will actually improve employee based coverage for 408,000 people in the Fourth Congressional District of Oregon. Furthermore, if someone does not have health insurance in order to make insurance affordable, the legislation contains the largest middle-class tax cut for health care in history, providing middle class families with incomes up to $88,000 for a family of four with tax credits to help pay for coverage in the new Health Insurance Exchange. For a family of four making $50,000, the average tax credit will be approximately $5,800. There are 209,000 households in southwest Oregon that could qualify for these credits if they purchase health insurance through the exchange. This will make it possible for the nearly 80,000 people in Southwest Oregon who are currently without insurance to get coverage. This will reduce the cost of uncompensated care by $43 million for hospitals and health care providers in southwest Oregon lowering the cost of health care and improving insurance for everyone. The bill also gives a 10% incentive payment to primary care doctors that serve in rural areas as well as increased payments to all primary care doctors. Financial security for families There were 1,200 health care-related bankruptcies in southwest Oregon in 2008, caused primarily by the health care costs not covered by insurance. The bill caps annual out-of-pocket costs at $6,200 for individuals and $12,400 for families who purchase insurance through the exchange or who are insured by small businesses. It also eliminates annual and lifetime limits on all insurance coverage. These reforms ensure that no family will have to face financial ruin because of high health care costs. New lower-cost health care options for young adults The legislation will allow young adults to remain on their parents’ policies until they turn 26. There are 62,000 young adults in the southwest Oregon who will benefit from this option. For individuals under age 30, the bill creates new, inexpensive policies that allow them to obtain protection from catastrophic health care costs. Improves Medicare for Oregonians In Oregon doctors are increasingly refusing to take Medicare patients because the reimbursement rate is so low they lose money on every patient. This is because Oregon, and 16 other states, are locked into low rates using a formula that favors high cost East Coast states. As the baby boomers age, the seniors population grows and this problem continues to get worse. Language to fix this problem was included in the House passed bill but was not included in either the Senate bill or the reconciliation package. DeFazio stated that unless this problem was addressed he would not vote for the bill. DeFazio and members from the 16 other states who are also harmed by the current reimbursement formula, worked, with leadership and the Obama Administration to negotiate a change to fix this inequity in the final bill. Because of the work of Congressman DeFazio the health reform bill will actually improve Medicare for 137,000 beneficiaries in Southwest Oregon; they will have better access to doctors and, that care will be more affordable. The bill also eliminates all co-pays for preventative services such as screenings for diabetes, cancer and osteoporosis. It also gives educational incentives to go into primary care or to practice in rural areas to address doctor shortages in those areas. Finally, the bill also strengthens the Medicare Trust Fund, extending its solvency from 2017 to 2026. Protects Medicare for the Future Opponents have told seniors that reform will lead to a “cut” in Medicare benefits. The bill has been endorsed by the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) because it will make Medicare stronger and more fiscally sound for the future by eliminating billions of dollars of waste and abuse. For instance, Medicare pays up to 20% more nationally to treat beneficiaries under these for profit Medicare Advantage plans than it does under regular Medicare. Oregon administers Medicare Advantage more efficiently than most states. The bill actually provides increased incentive payments to plans that are considered “high quality” like the ones we have in Oregon. Helps small businesses Insurance costs for small businesses have increased 129% since 2000. Small business employees pay an average of 18% more in premiums than those in large firms for the same benefits. Their deductibles are more than double. The legislation will help 20,000 small businesses in the Fourth Congressional District – allowing them access to affordable, large-group rates, insurance plans with better benefits, and eliminating discriminatory pricing. Lowers the cost of prescription drugs for seniors AARP found that from 2002 to 2007 the average yearly cost of prescription medications for individuals on Medicare nearly doubled. Reigning in the exploding cost of prescription drugs is essential to affordable health coverage. This bill closes the dreaded Medicare Part D “donut hole” that was passed by President Bush and the Republican controlled Congress closing the “donut hole” will benefit over 14,000 seniors in southwest Oregon. Under the “donut hole” any prescription medication costs accrued between $2,700 and $6,154 yearly are not covered by Medicare. It also provides a 50% reduction on brand name drug prices for seniors while the donut hole is being phased out. The bill will significantly lower the costs of drugs by creating an FDA approval process for cheaper generic versions of expensive high-tech drugs. Many of these drugs are used to treat serious conditions that afflict millions of seniors like rheumatoid arthritis and cancer. To access the radio actuality click here.
03.23.2010	Eugene Resident, Don Fisher, Inspired Resolution March 23, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) is pleased to announce that H.Res. 925, a resolution he authored to grant long overdue congressional recognition to pilots that were shot down or landed in enemy territory, passed the House of Representatives this weekend unanimously. The resolution will also direct the Secretaries of the military departments to consider these aviators for appropriate recognition within their branch of the Armed Forces. “The extraordinary service and sacrifice of these brave men has gone unrecognized for far too long. I am pleased that we are finally able to honor these veterans, many of whom served in WWII, that have never received formal recognition for their ability to avoid capture or escape from captivity. This legislation is also meant to honor the families of these brave aviators, many of which went for months or even years without any knowledge of what had happened to their loved ones,” DeFazio said. “I am particularly pleased to honor Eugene resident, Don Fisher, who was shot down over German occupied France. His plane was shot down and he was hanging from a tree while a German fighter pilot circled him. He thought that the pilot would shoot at him but instead, he just saluted and flew off. Mr. Fisher managed to free himself from his harness and moved from farm to farm while German troops were looking for him. Eventually, he was introduced to members of the French resistance. Over the next year, he lived with French families and worked with the resistance movement, using a French/English dictionary to communicate. He revealed himself to British troops when they liberated Paris and was finally allowed to contact his family and let them know he was alive. I was lucky enough to have Mr. Fisher tell me this remarkable story himself last year. When I learned that there are thousands of these men, I decided to introduce this legislation,” DeFazio continued. Thousands of aviators in the Armed Forces, including pilots, navigators, bombardiers, weapons control officers, and other aircraft crew members, have been forced out of the skies and into hostile territory over the last 92 years. Overcoming long odds, many of these aviators have bravely evaded or escaped enemy capture to return to their units and resume their service to the United States. Many of these cases involved living undercover in enemy territory for countless months or even years. While these brave aviators were trying to survive behind enemy lines, their families and friends back home endured unimaginable hardship waiting to learn the status of their loved ones. DeFazio is now working to secure a congressional gold medal for Mr. Fisher and his fellow downed aviators.
03.23.2010	March 23, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that he will be joining with the Government Contract Assistance Program (GCAP) to host a training event for Oregon small businesses interested in competing for government contracts on public lands. The event will take place on March 30, 2010 at the Holiday Inn, Kruse Way, Springfield, OR. Registration starts at 8:00 a.m. and the training will be from 9:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. The cost is $35 with lunch and continental breakfast provided. Congressman DeFazio will speak at the event and he and his staff will be available to answer questions. Other speakers include Mark L LaCroix the Contracting Officer from Fremont-Winema National Forest, James E. Steiner, the Business Development Specialist at the Small Business Administration (SBA) and Dee Edwards the Program Manager at GCAP. Topics of discussion include: • The Basics of Government Contracting, • SBA programs • The Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industry and the federal Department of Labor requirements for government contractors • How to contract with the Forest Service with Multiple Award Task Order Contracts and Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity Contracts. • A panel of experts from the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service discuss trends, stimulus and contracting with their agency Congressman DeFazio is pleased to be working with GCAP to deliver technical assistance services to Oregon businesses. Since its inception in 1986, GCAP has provided counseling and training leading to thousands of Oregon businesses leading to hundreds of millions of dollars in contract awards. GCAP is the only organization available to Oregon businesses that provides in-depth procurement counseling, technical training, and marketing assistance on government contracting. “There is a huge back log of thinning on maintenance projects on our local public lands. With unemployment at 20 percent in parts of southwest Oregon, it is even more important that local companies have the opportunity to compete for government contracts. This will create jobs here in Oregon and help jump start the local economy. This event is a great first step in ensuring this happens,” DeFazio said. For more information, please contact GCAP at: 541/736-1088 or 800/497-7551 or email dedwards@gcap.org.
03.21.2010	March 21, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—Members of Oregon’s congressional delegation, Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland), David Wu (D-Hillsdale) and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) today announced that they had reached a critical agreement to fix the Medicare geographic disparities formula as part of the health reform bill. Due to the current outdated Medicare reimbursement formula, Oregon is one of 17 states where doctors and hospitals receive Medicare reimbursements at rates far below the national average, despite delivering better health outcomes. Oregon doctors are increasingly unable to take new Medicare patients because reimbursement rates are so low that they lose money on every patient. Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland), David Wu (D-Hillsdale) and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) today announced that they had reached a critical agreement to fix the Medicare geographic disparities formula as part of the health reform bill. Due to the current outdated Medicare reimbursement formula, Oregon is one of 17 states where doctors and hospitals receive Medicare reimbursements at rates far below the national average, despite delivering better health outcomes. Oregon doctors are increasingly unable to take new Medicare patients because reimbursement rates are so low that they lose money on every patient. The agreement that was reached today will fix this outdated formula and provide a path forward for the future. For the next two years, Oregon doctors and hospitals will receive immediate relief for their unfairly low Medicare reimbursement rates. During that interim two year period, President Obama and Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary Of Health and Human Services have committed to commission studies that would recommend specific steps to fix the longstanding geographic disparities in the Medicare formula, beginning in 2012. The study will also investigate how to restructure the reimbursement formula to reward the type of high quality, low cost care that the thousands of seniors in Oregon receive. The Secretary will then implement these recommendations into law using administrative action. “Because of a faulty 40 year old formula, Oregon suffers from one of the lowest Medicare reimbursement rates in the country, despite being one of the highest quality best outcomes providers of medical care to seniors in the country. This is wrong. The practical effect is that more and more seniors in my district and across Oregon are being told, ‘sorry, we don’t take Medicare, it doesn’t come close to paying what it costs to provide care, and we simply can’t afford it.’ We’ve been working for more than a decade to correct this inequity,” Congressman Peter DeFazio said. “We’ve negotiated hard and finally have reached agreement today which will give Oregon its rightful share, along with 16 other states who are also being discriminated against under the current formula. This is good news for Oregon seniors and is a critical part of this legislation.”“After more than a year of hard work and debate, and after a final round of intense meetings that went until dawn, we have a bill that provides important progress for Oregon and the nation. Last night we reached an agreement to save Medicare from collapse by empowering the government to study and then implement a system that rewards value, not just volume of tests and procedures. Oregon will no longer be penalized for its quality health care, but rather we will be rewarded and recognized for our efficiency. With progress like this, and progress that will give 32 million more Americans access to health care, I will be proud to cast this historic vote,” Congressman Earl Blumenauer said. “This is a vital and landmark shift in policy,” said Congressman David Wu. “We are taking the first steps to fix Medicare reimbursement rate disparities so that Oregon doctors and hospitals will be paid fairly for providing quality care to our seniors. The administration has committed not only to payment equity, but also to moving from paying for quantity to paying for quality and results. Shifting to a system that is based on high-value care means we will move away from the volume-based system that has exacerbated geographic disparities and led to millions of American seniors being unable to find a doctor.” “This is a great start in the movement toward cost containment and better quality care,” said Congressman Kurt Schrader. “This agreement begins to change the culture of healthcare delivery. States like Oregon should not be penalized for providing high quality care for less. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the delegation to make sure the promises made by House leaders and the Administration come to fruition so we can finally address this problem once and for all.” The provision also has the support of the Oregon Association of Hospitals & Health Systems and the Lane County Medical Society, which released the following letters today: March 20, 2010 The Honorable Peter DeFazio U.S. House of Representatives Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2134 Washington DC, 20515 Representative DeFazio: On behalf of Oregon’s 58 community hospitals, thank you for your commitment to forging a solution to Medicare payment inequity. Over the past year, Oregon’s delegation has demonstrated laudable perseverance in ensuring improved access to health services for all Oregonians. We are deeply grateful to the delegation, the current administration and to Democratic leadership for working with Oregon hospitals on this issue, which is tantamount to reducing the cost shift to commercial insurance and ensuring access to providers. We applaud Secretary Kathleen Sebelius’ pledge to address geographic payment inequity, and share her vision to develop and implement policies that advance health care quality and value and reduce unnecessary utilization. Oregon is one of the nation’s most careful stewards of health care resources, ranking first in the nation for shortest length of stay for Medicare patients. Yet our state is penalized for such efficiency with the fourth lowest Medicare payments in the country. We are grateful to the secretary for her pledge to implement the Institute of Medicine (IOM) studies as outlined in the House health care reform bill, American’s Affordable Health Choices Act (H.R. 3200). These studies will provide the information needed to understand the scope of geographic variation in the country. In 2009, Oregon’s Healthcare Leadership Taskforce sponsored a study that demonstrated a $1.7 billion Medicare and Medicaid underpayment for Oregon’s physicians and hospitals. The results of these two IOM studies will create a foundation for forging a long-term solution to this problem. We sincerely hope that Oregon will have the opportunity to participate in the demonstration project outlined by the secretary in which she has agreed to commission the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) to “test innovative models taking into consideration the recommendations of the institute of Medicine.” Thank you again for your steadfast commitment to righting geographic payment inequities. This is a positive first step, and one that will create a clear line of sight to an equitable solution. We stand ready to assist in any way we can. Respectfully, Andrew S. Davidson President/CEO Oregon Association of Hospitals & Health Systems Lane County Medical Society 990 West 7th Avenue Eugene, Oregon 97402 March 20, 2010 Honorable Peter DeFazio 2134 Rayburn House Office Building Washington D.C. 20515 Dear Congressman DeFazio: We are extremely appreciative of the hard work that the members of the Oregon House delegation have done on the issue of geographic disparities in the Medicare payment formula. Oregon is one of seventeen states whose doctors receive Medicare reimbursements at rates far below the national average, despite delivering better health outcomes. We are pleased by the announcement today that the health care reform bill includes an agreement which will begin to fix this inequity. For the next two years, Oregon doctors and hospitals will receive immediate relief for their unfairly low Medicare reimbursement rates. During that two year period, the Secretary Of Health and Human Services with the authority of the President have committed, in writing, to commission a study that would recommend specific steps to fix the longstanding geographic disparities in the Medicare formula, that would be completed and its recommendations implemented into law by 2012. A second study that will also investigate how to restructure the reimbursement formula to reward the kind of high quality, high value care that thousands of seniors receive in Oregon is due to be implemented into law by 2014. This agreement is a significant step forward in the fight to ending this long-standing problem that has unfairly punished our doctors and hospitals for providing high quality, low cost care. Sincerely,Michael G. Herz, M.D., President; Marc B. Schnapper, M.D., President-Elect; Raymond N. Englander, M.D., Secretary-Treasurer; Byrke Beller, M.D. Secretary-Treasurer Elect; Sylvia A. Emory, Chairwoman of the Delegation
03.19.2010	March 19, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC-Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) released the following statement today about the health care reform legislation Congress is set to vote on this weekend: "I voted for the original bill for three principal reasons: it had a public option which would get people out from under the thumb of the insurance industry; it had national exchanges which would give people lower rates and better coverage; and, after decades of trying, we finally fixed the Medicare geographic disparities formula which discriminates against Oregon and 16 other states. The most current version of the health care bill includes none of these provisions and unless we fix the geographic disparities, I cannot vote for this bill. We negotiated this change for months and we finally got an agreement included in the House bill and expected it to be in the final bill, but it has been removed. "The formula has been unfair for 40 years and has only gotten worse in subsequent budget reconciliation bills. It is outdated and currently discriminates against Oregon and 16 other states that provide low cost, high quality care. Studies by MedPAC, the Institute of Medicine and the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy have all found the current formula inequitable and recommended that it be fixed but, it has not happened. The language in the House bill would have mandated the formula change. It does not cost three times as much to do an appendectomy in Florida as it does in Oregon but currently Medicare spends three times as much annually per an enrollee in Miami as in Eugene. The most calls I get the in my district offices are from seniors who cannot get a doctor because reimbursement rates are so low. This change would improve access to care for nearly 600,000 people in Oregon and millions of seniors across the country. Fixing the Medicare geographic disparities formula is only right and only fair. It is long past time for this to change."
03.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today led democrats in the Oregon Congressional Delegation in fighting to save at least 500 family-wage, private sector jobs. DeFazio and his colleagues sent a letter to Congressman Jim Moran, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment, asking that he support the 2010 funding levels for managing 2.2 million acres of Oregon and California (O&C) Lands in Western Oregon. President Obama’s proposed budget would cut funding for resource management activities by $10 million, or 11 percent. The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) estimates that this budget cut would have a devastating impact on their ability to offer timber projects, would cost Oregon 500-600 family-wage jobs, and reduce the amount of marketable timber the agency is able to offer in fiscal year 2011 by 45 million board feet. This budget cut comes in the wake of the Administration’s withdrawal of the Bush Administration’s Western Oregon Plan Revision (WOPR)- forest plan revisions that would have significantly increased logging of old growth forests in Western Oregon. The plans were administratively withdrawn by Secretary Salazar because the Department of Interior deemed the Bush Administration-era plans legally and scientifically indefensible. After administratively withdrawing the WOPR, Secretary Salazar and the Obama Administration promised a sustainable and predictable supply of timber to timber-dependent communities and the timber industry in the interim, as the BLM works on a long-term forest management strategy. In the DeFazio-led letter to Chairman Moran, Oregon’s democrats question the Administration’s ability to make good on this promise with a dramatically reduced budget for O&C Lands. "The bottom line is we need jobs. The real unemployment rate well exceeds 20 percent in a number of southwest Oregon communities. By restoring the O&C budget to this year’s level – not even an increase - we can preserve or create hundreds of jobs, provide a predictable supply of timber to timber-dependent communities, and continue to address the forest health issues facing Western Oregon. That’s good deal for the federal government and Oregon’s economy,” DeFazio said. The letter is below: The Honorable James Moran Chairman Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Room B-308 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Moran: First, we are writing to offer our congratulations on being approved as the new chairman of the Subcommittee on Interior and Environment. We look forward to working with you in your new capacity to responsibly manage our public lands, protect rural communities and the environment. Second, we are writing to bring to your attention a matter of critical importance to the economic security of rural communities in Western Oregon and the health of west-side Oregon forests. We are requesting that you support the fiscal year 2010 funding level of $97 million for the Department of Interior, Western Oregon Resource Management account for fiscal year 2011. Western Oregon contains 2.2 million acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) forests called Oregon and California (O&C) Lands. Many of these acres are overstocked, fire-suppressed, and in need of responsible forest management. Recent data provided by the BLM shows that approximately 1.1 million acres of O&C Lands are in need of ecological restoration and could be treated if the funding was available. O&C Lands have a long history dating back to the 1937 Oregon and California (O&C) Lands Act. These 2.2 million acres of forests and the 1937 O&C Act have been at the center of the Pacific Northwest “forest wars” for more than two decades. Most recently, the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR) - forest plan revisions developed to dramatically increase logging in Western Oregon - were administratively withdrawn by Secretary Salazar because the Department of Interior deemed the plans legally and scientifically indefensible. Given the absence of a definitive forest plan for Western Oregon to offer responsible timber projects in the short-term while the Department of Interior works on a long-term forest management strategy, we want to express our collective concern about the President’s proposed cut to the Western Oregon Resource Management budget account for fiscal year 2011. This account funds resource management activities on O&C Lands. The President’s proposed cut would reduce the Western Oregon Resource Management account from $97 million appropriated in fiscal years 2009-2010 to $86 million in fiscal year 2011. As the Obama Administration continues to work on a forest plan for Western Oregon, it is not clear to us how the Administration intends to make good on its promise to provide a more predictable and sustainable timber supply to rural communities and the timber industry with a significantly reduced budget. The proposed $10 million (or 11%) cut would have a devastating impact on the ability of the BLM to offer responsible and much needed timber projects to address forest health issues on O&C Lands and directly result in the loss of hundreds of family-wage, private-sector jobs. The Bureau of Land Management estimates that a $10 million cut will result in the loss of 500-600 Oregon jobs and reduce the amount of merchantable timber the agency is able to offer in fiscal year 2011 by 45 million board feet. With unemployment above 20% in many rural Oregon communities, the President’s proposed cuts will exacerbate the already dire economic conditions in these rural communities and continue the negative trend of a loss in valuable timber infrastructure. We respectfully request that you support the fiscal year 2010 funding level of $97 million for the Department of Interior, Western Oregon Resource Management account in fiscal year 2011. While we understand the difficult budget constraints you face this year, maintaining the fiscal year 2010 funding level for this account will save and create private-sector jobs while simultaneously helping the federal government address the enormous backlog of work that needs to be completed on O&C Lands. In the long-term, Oregon needs a workable forest policy that addresses two unresolved issues: certainty in timber supply to the timber industry and rural communities and protecting old growth forests in the Pacific Northwest. For too long, our timber-dependent communities have suffered from false starts and false promises, litigation, and controversy. They deserve better. We are committed to continuing our work with you, our colleagues in Congress, and the Department of Interior to craft a long-term, responsible forest management plan for Oregon. Again, congratulations on your chairmanship. Thank you for considering our request. We look forward to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer David Wu Member of Congress Member of Congress
03.03.2010	March 3, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) is working to ensure that every U.S. Army World War II veteran gets the full military honors they have earned. He urges all U.S. Army WW II infantry veterans residing in Oregon’s fourth congressional district to contact his Eugene office about their eligibility for the Bronze Star medal. All U.S. Army World War II veterans who received either the Combat Infantry Badge (CIB) or Combat Medic Badge (CMB) during the war are eligible for the Bronze Star medal for meritorious combat service, one of the highest ranking awards given by the military. Army policy that allows the meritorious Bronze Star medal for CIB and CMB recipients was established after WWII to recognize the service of U.S. Army infantryman and medics who performed their duties during sustained periods of combat. Though the policy has been in effect for over 60 years, most WWII veterans are not aware they are eligible. “Many brave WWII veterans do not know that they are eligible for a Bronze Star as a result of their distinguished service. I am happy I am able to help them get the recognition they so richly deserve,” DeFazio said. The Bronze Star recognition is accompanied by an official military medal, certificate, and orders, but does not carry any monetary incentive. Veterans or their family members can initiate a request by providing DeFazio’s staff with official documents, such as a military discharge, listing CIB or CMB. Please call the Congressman’s Eugene office at 541-465-6732 or 1-800-944-9603 for information and/or assistance.
02.24.2010	February 24, 2010 Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (Springfield) fought to make health care more affordable today when his language to revoke the health insurance industry’s federal antitrust exemption passed the House of Representatives. The language was included in H.R. 4626, Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act. This legislation, which has bipartisan support, is a huge step in the fight to address the rapidly escalating cost of health insurance premiums. The bill passed by a vote of 406 to 19. “Last summer, I held 15 town hall meetings. They were attended by almost 8,000 people. At those meetings there was one item of agreement between the extreme view points in the debate – the single payer advocates to the tea party activists – and that was that the health insurance industry should not enjoy a special exemption from anti-trust law. They should not be able to collude to drive up prices, limit competition, conspire to underpay doctors and hospitals, and price gouge consumers. They should play by the same rules as every other industry in the United States. It is long past time for this archaic exemption from anti-trust law, passed in the 1940’s, to go in the dust bin of history. Passage of this legislation is a huge victory for consumers,” DeFazio said. The insurance industry has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed by Congress in 1945. This exemption was intended to be temporary, but it has not turned out that way. The exemption leaves regulation to the states, many of which have inadequate resources and inconsistent enforcement. A recent study shows that in six of the seven most concentrated markets for health insurance—no significant consumer protection actions have been taken against health insurers in the past five years. This essentially means that insurance companies are free to collude amongst themselves. H.R. 4626 will end this practice by subjecting the health insurance industry to all federal anti-trust laws and by giving the Department of Justice the authority to go after anticompetitive practices of health insurers if the states are unable or unwilling to do it themselves. The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone could save consumers billions of dollars. H.R. 4626 is supported by numerous groups including the American Hospital Association, American Nurses Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, Consumers Union, Consumer Federation of America, Center for Justice and Democracy, and U.S. PIRG. In light of the report released last week by Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, this legislation could not come at a better time. The report reveals that in Oregon, one of the state’s biggest insurance companies, Regency Blue Cross Blue Shield, requested an increase in premiums by 20 percent in 2009. They were granted a 16 percent increase. Regency Blue Cross Blue Shield has almost 80 thousand members in Oregon. Other smaller companies in the state requested, and were granted increases by as much as 23 percent. Over the last decade, many people have seen their premiums doubled. Leading experts have predicted that, without reform, these increases will continue, and the federal government and most states don’t have the legal authority to block or reduce health insurance rate increases. “This is an essential step in the fight to lower health care costs for all Americans and bring much needed reform to the health insurance industry,” DeFazio continued. To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. 3. Right click on the file entitled "02.24.10 DeFazio speaks about the passage of his language to repeal the antitrust immunity of the health insurance industry" 4. Choose "Save Target As…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. 3. Right click on the file entitled "02.24.10 DeFazio speaks about the passage of his language to repeal the antitrust immunity of the health insurance industry" 4. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer.
02.18.2010	February 18, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today fought for Oregon fishing families when he joined with congressional colleagues in a letter to Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), urging her to drop her highly controversial legislation to accelerate water withdrawals out of the Sacramento River. This action would devastate salmon runs along the South Coast of Oregon. It is clear from reports that excessive water pumping has already caused the Sacramento River salmon population to plummet to its lowest level in recorded history. The letter expresses the concern that, should Feinstein’s legislation pass, it would mean the extinction of Sacramento River salmon and the tens of thousands of fishing dependent jobs in Oregon, California and Washington. “Commercial and recreational fishing fleets have been moored at the dock the past three years due to historically low salmon runs,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR). “Diverting more water to California farmers at the expense of Oregon fishing families and businesses is short-sighted and adds further injury to hardworking families in my district." Salmon runs of the Sacramento River systems have been decimated in recent years, leading to unprecedented closures of the fishing season with significant effects on the fishing industry and related businesses along the West Coast. Estimates of the job losses from the salmon fishery closure range as high as 23,000. Despite the announcements about the salmon population, Sen. Feinstein recently announced her intention to legislatively override salmon protections to divert additional water from the Sacramento River regardless of the impact on the devastated salmon population. According to recent media reports, the Feinstein proposal would allow corporate agribusinesses to increase their diversions of water to a rate twice as high as if the current fish protections were totally eliminated. Joining DeFazio on the letter to Sen. Feinstein were Reps. George Miller (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), David Wu (D-OR), Norm Dicks (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Lynn Woolsey (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Doris Matsui (D-CA) and John Garamendi (D-CA). "Pushing salmon and steelhead populations closer to extinction, which is a certain consequence of legislatively undermining federal protections without any scientific basis, would only exacerbate this economic pain,” the lawmakers wrote.
02.16.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today led a bipartisan effort to create jobs on public lands when he sent a letter to the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, Congressman Nick Rahall and the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, Congressman Raul Grijalva. The letter requests that the Chairmen hold a hearing on the Resource Advisory Committee (RAC) appointment process. RACs, which were created as part of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000, help to make improvements on public lands and create and maintain family wage jobs in areas of Oregon which are currently suffering from unemployment rates of almost 20%. The purpose of the RACs is to bring together a diverse cross-section of local citizens to design and implement collaborative projects on national forests. The RACs have been a tremendous success. Over the last eight years, 55 RACs have been formed and have implemented over 5,000 projects, not one of which has been litigated. These projects may include road, trail, and infrastructure maintenance or removal; improvements in forest health; and the restoration, maintenance, and improvement of wildlife and fish habitat. “RACs have been highly effective at designing projects that create good paying jobs and that make needed improvements on our public lands. But, only one quarter of the RACs have enough members to function,” DeFazio said “We need to find out why these positions are not being filled in a timely manner so we can fix the process, get needed projects out the door, and put people back to work.” When Congress reauthorized the Secure Rural Schools Act in 2008, it created 69 new RACs for a total of 124 RACs. Unfortunately, last year, due to the back-log of appointments, 89 of the total 124 RACs were unable to fulfill their responsibilities because they did not have enough approved members to constitute a quorum. As a result, of the $52 million allocated to counties for RAC projects in 2009, only $26 million has been committed to projects. This year another $45 million will be available for RAC projects. Without approved RAC members, efforts to preserve and create jobs will continue to be stalled. Last month, DeFazio was joined by 23 of his colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Agriculture, Thomas Vilsack, requesting that he expedite the process of Resource Advisory Committee (RAC) appointments. DeFazio has not received a response to this letter. The letter is below: February 16, 2010 The Honorable Nick Rahall Chairman House Committee on Natural Resources 1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC, 20515 The Honorable Raul Grijalva Chairman Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands 1333 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC, 20515 Dear Chairman Rahall and Chairman Grijalva: We are writing to share our concerns about delays by the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management in approving Resource Advisory Committee (RAC) appointments. We respectfully request that you hold an oversight hearing on the RAC approval process. You will recall that as a part of Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination Act we included one of the most successful features of the Act, the establishment of local Resource Advisory Committees (RACs). The purpose of the RACs is to bring together a diverse cross-section of local citizens to design and implement collaborative projects on national forests. Over the last eight years, 55 RACs have been formed and have implemented over 5,000 projects. Of those 5,000 projects, not one has been litigated. When Congress reauthorized the Act in 2008, an additional 69 RACs were created. Unfortunately, last year, nearly 80 of the total 124 RACs were unable to fulfill their responsibilities to either Congress or their local communities because they lack sufficient approved members to constitute a quorum. Of the $52 million allocated to counties for RAC projects in 2009, only $26 million has been committed to projects due to lack of quorums or lack of approved charters. This year, an additional $45 million of Title II dollars will be available but RAC vacancies may delay more than half of the funding. Without approved RAC members, efforts to preserve and create jobs in rural communities have been stalled. We understand that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has nearly 700 individuals awaiting RAC appointments; the Bureau of Land Management has approximately 200 more. Most of the appointments have been pending for more than a year. Unfortunately, our efforts in seeking a meaningful response from the U.S. Department of Agriculture have not been successful. Despite sending a letter to Secretary Vilsack expressing our concerns about RAC appointments nearly two months ago, we have not yet received a reply. An oversight hearing on RAC appointments is needed to examine ways to improve the approval process to ensure RACs can meet their responsibilities, projects can be approved, and much needed jobs maintained and created. Thank you for your continued commitment to rural counties. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Don Young Stephanie Herseth Sandlin Cynthia Lummis
02.09.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) last Thursday fought for wood manufacturing jobs in Oregon and across the U.S. when he sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. The bipartisan letter requests changes be made to a federal subsidy program that adversely impacts wood manufacturing industries. The Biomass Crop Assistance Program (BCAP), a subsidy program created by the 2008 Farm Bill, provides up to $45 in matching payments to businesses that collect, store, and transport biomass waste material to energy facilities. Eligible BCAP materials currently include sawdust and wood shavings, materials already used by the composite panel and wood manufacturing industries to produce higher-value products such as furniture, cabinets, and flooring. With the federal subsidy, sawdust and wood shavings are twice as valuable if lumber mills sell them to energy facilities rather than value-added manufacturers. Using taxpayer dollars to subsidize the transfer of biomass material currently used for higher-value products to lower-value processes goes against Congressional intent and is having a devastating impact on the U.S. wood manufacturing industries. The wood manufacturing industry supports 21,000 family wage jobs 350,000 indirect jobs, and generates $7.9 billion in revenues every year. “I strongly support biomass as a form of renewable energy and for its potential to create jobs in Oregon. I got language included in the climate change legislation last year that made it possible for federal subsidies to be available for certain types of biomass when used as a renewable fuel,” DeFazio said. “But, taxpayers should not be subsidizing the transfer of biomass material from one industry at the expense of another. That was never the intent of Congress. The composite and wood manufacturing industry is vital to Southwest Oregon and, with unemployment at nearly 20% we cannot afford to lose more jobs or further destroy our manufacturing base. I look forward to working with Secretary Vilsack to make the necessary changes to this program.” DeFazio’s letter urges Secretary Vilsack to suspend the allocation of $514 million approved for the BCAP program until the eligible material list is modified to exclude biomass materials already used for higher-value products. The letter to Secretary Vilsack is below: February 04, 2010 The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary United States Department of Agriculture 212A Whitten Building 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack: We are writing to express our concerns about the Biomass Crop Assistance Program (BCAP), which was created in the 2008 Farm Bill. While we support the intent of the program to economize the conversion of biomass into renewable energy, we believe one aspect of the program will have adverse impacts on the wood manufacturing and wood products industries without providing benefits to the environment. Primarily, we are concerned about the Department of Agriculture’s decision to list “wood residues” as eligible materials for BCAP. Making residual materials eligible for a federal subsidy has unintentionally diverted sawmill and lumber bi-products away from composite wood manufacturers towards pellet and biofuel plants. In reviewing the legislative text of the 2008 Farm Bill, it is clear Congress never intended for these materials to be included in BCAP. The 2008 Farm Bill and the Department of Agriculture’s own BCAP webpage explicitly state that eligible BCAP materials shall only include material that “would not otherwise be used for higher-value products.” Wood residues, such as sawdust and shavings, are used in the wood manufacturing industry to make numerous higher-value products, such as furniture, cabinets, flooring, and other important consumer products. Clearly, wood residues should not be included as an eligible material under BCAP. We are also concerned about the Department of Agriculture’s decision to begin allocating $514 million of BCAP subsidies without having finalized rules and regulations for the program. It is unwise to use taxpayer dollars to subsidize the transfer of biomass material currently used for higher-value products to lower-value processes without first approving regulations to keep the subsidy program transparent and accountable. As currently administered, BCAP is driving up the price of residual materials utilized by the wood manufacturing and composite industries - industries that support 21,000 family wage jobs, 350,000 indirect jobs, and generate $7.9 billion in revenues per year. In a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture in November, 2009, the Composite Panel Association (CPA) warned that without changes, “BCAP’s negative impact could be in the billions of dollars” and jeopardize thousands of American jobs. The pulp, paper, packaging, and woods products industries – which rank among the top 10 manufacturing employers in 48 states – have expressed similar concerns. In a letter to the Office of Budget and Management (OMB) in October, the American Forest and Paper Association warned that the current BCAP structure could “jeopard[ize] the forest products industry and the many jobs it sustains.” Driving up input costs for the composite and wood manufacturing industries will negatively impact their ability to compete globally and could ultimately lead to the loss of thousands of jobs. During a time of 10% national unemployment – with many state unemployment rates even higher – we can ill afford to lose additional family-wage, U.S. manufacturing jobs. We respectfully request that the Department of Agriculture immediately freeze the distribution of BCAP funds through the Farm Service Agency until the following conditions are met: 1) the BCAP Eligible Materials List is modified by excluding wood residues such as wood mill waste, scraps, sawdust, sawmill residual chips and shavings, and 2) the USDA finalizes regulations to implement the program. Thank you in advance for your attention and timely reply to this letter. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Robert E. Latta Member of Congress Member of Congress Travis Childers Member of Congress
02.01.2010	February 1, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement on President Obama's fiscal year 2011 budget, which was released this morning. “Overall, I was pleased with President Obama’s 10-year budget outline. Years of fiscal irresponsibility under the Bush Administration have created record deficits. I am happy that President Obama is committed to eliminating the deficit as quickly as possible. I look forward to working with him on this goal, so we do not pass our debt on to our children and grandchildren. I was particularly pleased with the proposed tax reforms that will make the tax system more fair and progressive. I am glad he does not want to continue the irresponsible Bush tax cuts for millionaires and has proposed the closure of tax loop holes for multinational corporations which ship billions of dollars over-seas every year. I was also glad about the proposed Bipartisan Fiscal Commission, which will be charged with identifying spending cuts and revenue increases that will move us back toward a balanced budget. This shows a real commitment to addressing the current budgetary issues. I applaud the 7.5 percent increase in education funding. Of those funds, Oregon will receive $704.8 million. Education funding is one of the best investments we can make. A strong commitment to education will make the next generation of Americans more competitive in the global economy. The budget also adds $69 billion to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Forest Service budgets. This will allow these agencies to address the backlog of forest management projects, to improve forest health, and foster desperately needed job creation in hard-hit timber dependent communities in Southwest Oregon. There are also several important parts of the budget that target burdensome waste. For example, it ends NASA’s wasteful and unnecessary Constellation program, to send man back to the moon. The budget also enacts a pay freeze on all senior political appointees throughout the Federal Government and continues the policy of no bonuses for all political appointees. These people should not be getting a bonus or a raise when working families are struggling to make ends meet. However, several aspects of the budget are troubling. I was particularly disappointed by the additional $33 billion for the war in Afghanistan to fund the 30,000 additional troops. I do not agree with the flawed plan to escalate the war the war in Afghanistan, especially when that money could be used to create jobs here at home. I have spent the last two years writing a surface transportation reauthorization bill which will create or sustain 12.5 million jobs. This would be a better use of these funds. Finally, I was disappointed that President Obama excluded the Pentagon from the proposed spending freeze on discretionary spending. Billions of dollars are wasted every year on projects at the Pentagon that don’t work and our troops don’t need. These gold plated defense contracts do nothing to make our troops or our nation safer. In order to make a full commitment to rooting out wasteful spending, President Obama must also scour the DOD budget. There are elements of this budget I agree with and elements I disagree with. It lays out many good strategies to reduce the massive deficits courtesy of the Bush Administration and get our nation back onto the path of fiscal responsibility.” For more information on how the President’s budget would affect Oregon, go to: https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/budget_factsheet_or/
01.28.2010	January 28, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio responded last night to President Obama's State of the Union address. Following are DeFazio's remarks: "I am happy that the President is finally supporting the position I took over a year ago to make Wall Street pay for their own bailout. I was also happy to see that he is finally paying attention to the historic unemployment we are currently suffering. It is about time that he turn his attention to the creation of jobs, especially utilizing the engine of growth in the United States—small businesses. Unfortunately, he failed to give specifics on federal transportation infrastructure investment. This investment is a proven way to create well-paying family wage jobs. I voted against the stimulus package because it failed to invest sufficient funds into infrastructure. Only seven percent of the money in the Recovery Act went to infrastructure, but that small seven percent is responsible for 25 percent of the job created or sustained. That’s why I am pushing for passage this year of the long-term surface transportation authorization legislation which will create jobs and improve our long-term economic viability. In order to create jobs we need to also fix our broken trade policies. A nation that has exported its manufacturing base and makes little of what it consumes jeopardizes its standing in the world. If we continue to export skilled jobs, the middle class will continue to shrink. It is not clear from President Obama’s remarks tonight that he is willing to break with the failed trade policies of the past. Ignoring our nation’s drastic trade imbalance hinders job growth and hurts working families. Obama’s remarks on education were promising. Additionally tuition assistance and Pell Grants for students and working families will make us more competitive in the global economy and help ensure the success of the next generation of Americans. I was pleased he made a commitment to eliminating unnecessary spending in our government. His proposal to examine each agency budget line by line and cut wasteful spending is desperately needed. I was encouraged he recognized the corrosive power that the recent decision by the activist Supreme Court is going to have on our ability to have fair elections. This decision overturns more than one hundred years of election reform and judicial precedent, and will allow massive amounts of corporate and foreign money to pour into our electoral system. I will work with my colleagues to mitigate this obvious over-reach by the Roberts’ Court. Sadly, I was disappointed by President Obama’s lack of specifics on health care reform. There are bipartisan, concrete steps we can, and must take, to make health care more affordable. He failed to address these solutions in his address tonight." To access the radio actuality: For Internet Explorer users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. 3. Right click on the file entitled “01.28.10 DeFazio Responds to President Obama's State of the Union Speech” 4. Choose "Save Target As…" from the menu to save the file on your computer. For Mozilla Firefox users: 1. Go to the following website: www.defazio.house.gov 2. Select “radio actualities” from the “press” drop down menu on the top right hand side. 3. Right click on the file entitled “01.28.10 DeFazio Responds to President Obama's State of the Union Speech” 4. Choose "Save Link as…" from the menu to save the file on your computer .
01.19.2010	January 19, 2010 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman DeFazio’s (D-OR) legislation, H.R.3759, a measure to provide relief to the struggling Oregon timber industry, passed the House of Representatives unanimously today. Economic conditions have made it unprofitable for companies to move forward with some timber sales and they face having to do projects at a loss or defaulting on their contracts. DeFazio’s legislation, which had strong bipartisan support, provides the Department of Interior with the authority to grant one-time contract extensions to Bureau of Land Management (BLM) timber sale purchasers. “Timber dependent communities are already suffering from high unemployment and teetering on the economic brink. If companies are forced to harvest when prices are low, or default on contracts, we will lose mills and jobs. The Forest Service already has the authority to extend contracts in times of dire market conditions. The type of work being performed under these BLM contracts would be almost identical to the type of work being performed on Forest Service lands,” DeFazio said. Due to the economic recession, the collapse of the housing market, and low timber prices, BLM sales purchasers face the untenable decision of whether to default on their contracts set to expire in 2009 and 2010 or harvest the wood at great economic loss. Timber companies defaulting on their contracts would face a large fine and difficulties securing future contracts. This would have disastrous consequences on their businesses, subcontractors, suppliers and local communities. DeFazio’s legislation would provide the needed short-term relief to sale purchasers while Congress considers a long-term legislative solution. The Forest Service already has similar authorities to provide economic-related timber contract extensions. In June, DeFazio, along with Representatives Rehberg and Schrader (D-OR) and Senators Wyden (D-OR), Merkley (D-OR), Baucus (D-MT) and Tester (D-MT) wrote to Interior Secretary Salazar and asked him to extend these contracts administratively. Secretary Salazar responded saying he lacks the authority to do that. Fifty companies hold 90 contracts in Oregon that would be eligible to be extended under this legislation. A few contracts have already expired and in order to address those contracts, the legislation is retroactive to all contracts executed on or before December 31, 2008. “With the passage of this legislation, we are in good shape to take quick, responsible action to provide necessary relief struggling Oregon timber industry,” DeFazio continued. The bill now heads to the Senate for consideration.
12.29.2009	TELLS SEN. DEMINT “QUIT PLAYING POLITICS WITH THE SAFETY OF THE FLYING PUBLIC” WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today urged Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) to drop his hold on the nomination of Mr. Erroll Southers as the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator. DeMint has been holding up the nomination for months and as a result, the TSA has been without a confirmed leader for an entire year. It is clear from the incident on Northwest Flight 253 on Christmas day that there are problems in our current security system that must be addressed quickly. The TSA desperately needs leadership in order to address these problems. The letter is below: December 29, 2009 The Honorable Jim DeMint United States Senator SR-340 Washington, DC 20510-4004 Dear Senator DeMint: I was one of the principle authors of the legislation creating the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). And, as a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Aviation Subcommittee, I have worked hard to address evolving security threats. It is in this capacity that I am writing to urge you to drop your hold on the nomination of Mr. Erroll Southers for the position of TSA Administrator. We were extremely fortunate that disaster was averted on Northwest Flight 253 on Christmas Day. I applaud President Obama for ordering a review of terrorist watch list and screening policies. However, it’s clear we must move quickly to address problems in the system and we need leadership at TSA to do that. Former TSA Administrator Kip Hawley was a forceful, effective leader who did a lot to improve aviation security. Administrator Hawley advocated moving to the type of full body screening technology that could have identified the explosives that Mr. Abdulmutallab was allegedly hiding. However, in the year that Mr. Hawley has been gone, we have lost much of that momentum. We need a strong leader at the TSA to move policies and technology along, and ensure that we have the resources and policies in place to ensure the protection of the traveling public. You must decide what presents the greater threat to the traveling public, terrorists organizing attacks against U.S. aviation or the potential of labor organizing amongst TSA employees. Many federal employees involved in securing our nation, such as Customs and Border Protection Officers, Border Patrol Officers, and civilian employees at the Department of Defense have civil service protections and collective bargaining. These workers are still effectively able to respond to new threats and challenges. The suggestion that an organized workforce would inhibit TSA from providing effective security is a red herring. I sincerely hope you will reconsider your position and lift the hold on Mr. Southers. This will give the TSA the leadership it needs to meet evolving threats. Sincerely, PETER A. DEFAZIO Member of Congress
12.22.2009	December 22, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) presented a Bronze Star medal this week to Grover Mayfield of Cave Junction, Oregon. Mr. Mayfield served as a Combat Infantryman during World War II and fought in the Ardennes, Rhineland, and Central Europe campaigns in 1945. Mayfield received the Bronze Star medal for meritorious service in ground combat during those campaigns. He was eligible for the Bronze Star because he previously received the Combat Infantry Badge, an award given to Army infantry servicemen for performing infantry duties during sustained periods of combat. “It is an honor to present Mr. Mayfield with the Bronze Star for his brave service on behalf of our country. This is a long-overdue moment for him and his family,” DeFazio said.
12.16.2009	December 16, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured final funding approval for five projects as part of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The funds, which will be used for research purposes at major research institutions in Oregon, will create jobs and help boost the state’s leadership in developing certain types of technologies. “This funding will help perform research that has the potential to transform the lives of people living with neurological injuries, make our soldiers more prepared and better protected, and make Oregon a leader in new developing technological fields,” DeFazio said. Three projects will be funded at the Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI). The institute is a collaborative effort between government, industry and higher education and is located on the campuses of Oregon’s major research universities; the University of Oregon, Oregon State University, and Portland State University: * Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing Initiative received $3.5 million. It will develop materials and manufacturing methods that simultaneously meet the military's need for high performance materials, protect human health and minimize environmental impacts. * The Miniature Tactical Energy Systems Development Initiative received $2.5 million. It has a wide range of military applications, including development of portable power systems for use by military personnel in the field for water purification and battery power. * The Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative received $3.8 million. The project conducts research into defense-related nanoscale electronic applications such as high density memories on silicon integrated circuits. The legislation also includes $2.4 million to continue research under the Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative at the University of Oregon. The funds will be used for research of brain nueroplasticy which will assist in the rehabilitation of people with spinal cord injuries, traumatic brain injuries and amputees. This research will improve the quality of life for people with these types of injuries, giving them better opportunities for employment. The Northwest Manufacturing Initiative received $2 million to make the Northwest region's diverse, value-added manufacturing sector a stronger contributor to the nation's defense and national security. The funding will be used for research and development to enhance the reliability, cost-effectiveness and environmental performance of products designed for the defense marketplace and to help improve the manufacturing capacity of small and medium-sized companies. The funding was included in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The bill must now be passed by the Senate before it heads to the White House for President Obama’s signature.
12.11.2009	“Rural counties in Oregon are already suffering from high unemployment and teetering on the economic brink. We need jobs and we need them now. Any major jobs package should include an investment in our nation’s neglected public lands. It is a win-win—simultaneously creating family wage jobs and addressing the health of our nation’s forests,” DeFazio said. “Our rural communities have been in a recession for two decades,” said Schrader. “We need to do everything possible to promote economic development opportunities in these communities and, that requires a substantial investment in our public lands.” The letter is below: December 11, 2009 The Honorable George Miller Chairman House Committee on Education and Labor 2181 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC, 20515 Dear Chairman Miller and Chairman Obey: We are writing to request that you consider including a major investment in our public lands in any upcoming “Jobs Bill.” Rural communities in our districts are facing severe economic challenges with record levels of unemployment. A major investment in our public lands would help address the huge maintenance backlog facing our public land management agencies while simultaneously creating and sustaining thousands of family-wage jobs. Below is a list of some of the types of projects that are “ready to go” and will put people back to work immediately doing critically important jobs on America’s public lands. Moreover, investment in public lands projects has a strong stimulative effect on local economies and creates private sector jobs that cannot be exported. Hazardous Fuels/Biomass Utilization Projects The Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management received a combined $255 million in the Recovery Act for hazardous fuels and biomass projects. The agencies were able to obligate 50% of the funds in the first nine months, which were used to treat 125,000 acres. Even with these substantial investments, the Forest Service and BLM could spend a combined $1 billion per year for hazardous fuel reduction and biomass utilization projects. Since 2003, over 40 million acres of forestland have burned in the United States, which has dramatically impacted our rural and forested communities. These projects would help reduce the threat of wildfire, protect lives and property, help generate renewable energy for local communities, and provide merchantable timber for local mills. It is estimated that for every $1 million invested in hazardous fuels and biomass utilization projects, 29 family-wage jobs are created and $2.1 million in economic activity is generated. Healthy Forest Projects We can do more responsible forest management on our public lands to improve the health of federal forests, reduce the risk of fire, and to protect important ecosystems. Millions of overstocked or fire-suppressed acres of federal forests could benefit from restorative thinning. Besides the obvious benefits to our forests, restoration projects would create and sustain jobs in rural communities by generating millions of board feet of timber. Such projects would also help preserve the disappearing timber infrastructure that sustains and supports rural and timber-dependent communities. Similarly, restoration projects would greatly aide in combating woodland disease infestation. Currently, western forests are being ravaged by invasive bark beetle infestation, with some counties reporting up to 78% of their forested areas being diseased. Providing more funds to combat this epidemic will create more jobs while promoting healthy forests. It is our understanding that dozens of NEPA-approved projects in our congressional districts await federal funding before implementation can occur. Federal funding is also needed to identify and plan additional forest restoration projects so that job-creating projects can be developed and offered to the private sector quickly. Every $1 million invested in forest restoration projects and thinning creates or retains 13 jobs and generates $2.2 million in economic activity. And for every one million board feet in timber volume, 12 jobs with an average salary of $43,000/year are created or saved. Deferred Construction and Maintenance Projects Earlier this year, the Forest Service and BLM faced a combined deferred maintenance backlog of over $10 billion. This backlog includes road maintenance, road decommissioning, trail maintenance, and fish passage and culvert construction. The agencies received a combined $905 million of Recovery Act funding for construction and maintenance projects on federal lands, leaving a deferred maintenance backlog of over $9.2 billion. At current budget levels, it will take our land management agencies 100 years to address the maintenance backlog. Federal investment in America’s public land infrastructure has a strong stimulative effect and enormous job creation potential. For every $1 million invested in equipment-intensive activities such as road and trail maintenance, road decommissioning, and culvert construction, 20 jobs are created and over $2.3 million in total economic activity is generated. This means investing $9.2 billion to address the growing maintenance backlog on public lands could create an estimated 184,000 jobs and generate over $20 billion in economic activity. Rural communities surrounded by public lands are among the hardest hit by the current economic recession. A Jobs Bill including robust investment in our public lands would serve two important goals: putting Americans back to work and addressing the unsustainable backlog of work that must be completed in order to restore forest health. We strongly urge you to include a major investment in hazardous fuels, biomass utilization, forest restoration, and deferred construction and maintenance projects in any forthcoming Jobs Bill. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Kurt Schrader Walt Minnick Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress John Salazar Brian Baird Steve Kagen Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
12.11.2009	The following statement was released by the Air Force regarding the award: “[Congressman Peter A. DeFazio’s] leadership, unwavering loyalty, and dedication to the Academy’s mission were instrumental in supporting the Academy and maintaining the Board’s active role in addressing important USAF issues. While serving as Chairman of the BoV’s Infrastructure and Resources Subcommittee, Congressman DeFazio championed increased awareness and helped ensure adequate resources were available for the Academy to renovate its facilities…The Board of Visitors, with Congressman DeFazio’s selfless support, directly enhanced the production of second lieutenants of character for the United States Air Force. The Commander’s Public Service Award is presented to Congressman Peter A. DeFazio for his astute advice and diplomacy to the senior leaders of the United States and the United States Air Force.” Congressman DeFazio responded with the following statement: "I am honored to have both served on the Air Force Board of Visitors and to be selected for the Commander’s Public Service Award," said DeFazio. "I greatly enjoyed my time on the board and was grateful for the opportunity to work closely with the Air Force Academy to ensure that it is a forward-looking, innovative and effective institution which provides the best climate possible to train cadets. I have been continually impressed by the upstanding men and women who attend the Academy and I am proud to have contributed to their education."
12.10.2009	“A perfect storm of high unemployment and increased substance abuse, both triggers for child abuse, combined with slashed funding for social services has resulted in a failure to meet the needs of children at risk in Douglas County,” DeFazio said. “I was pleased to secure funding for this critical program which will help these vulnerable kids.” Childhood poverty rates are on an upward trend, having increased 14% in 2007 and averaging 50% higher than the rest of Oregon. Unemployment in Douglas County is almost 20% and rising. Both are contributing factors to child abuse. The county is also a designated HIDTA (high intensity drug traffic area), and child abuse statistics historically have risen with increases in drug usage. This is combined with the fact that Oregon’s Child Welfare program failed a federal review in 2001 and 2007. The poor rating was attributed to the lack of frequent and meaningful contact between DHS staff and their clients: children, parents or foster parents.Current caseworker caseloads average 24-31 children, compared with maximum effective caseloads of 12-15 recommended by the Child Welfare League of America. Agencies addressing child abuse have rapidly growing waiting lists of children with immediate, documented needs for advocacy, therapy, respite care and other resources that strive to provide a safety net against abuse. Kids in Common trains and supervises community volunteer advocates to speak for the best interests of abused children in the court system. Advocates expedite a child’s process through the court and child welfare system and strive to assure their placement in a safe and permanent home. Kids in Common also provides services to assess and treat trauma to alleged child abuse victims and their families in a child friendly location. This contributes to the well-being of the child and starts the healing process in a positive environment. They also provide counseling services to mothers who have often experienced abuse in their past. Finally, the organization offers support, education and services to families experiencing high stress to prevent child abuse. This is particularly important during our current economic crisis where many families are experiencing elevated levels of stress. “CASA, CARES and The Family Development Center are deeply grateful to Congressman DeFazio for seeing this ‘Saving grace’ through the system,” said Evelyn Badger-Nores, Executive Director, Douglas CARES. “Douglas County continues to reel in the hurricane of economic decline. Our poverty level is nearly twice the state average. We have children coming to our agencies who are now in foster care and are reportedly hoarding food because their families had none. Because of Congressman DeFazio’s tireless efforts our agencies will effectively impact this growing population of needy children and families.” The Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be passed by the Senate before it heads to the White House for President Obama’s signature.
12.10.2009	“SCINT has been vital to the war on meth on the Oregon coast. They have a proven track record of seizing drugs. I’m pleased I was able to help secure funding to help build on that success,” DeFazio said. SCINT was formed in 1988 when it became clear that, with a far reaching methamphetamine problem taking hold on the Oregon coast, individual law enforcement departments were not able to effectively provide man power, money or equipment to fight the increasing drug epidemic. SCINT assured that each member department had highly trained and experienced investigators to work with and train member agency police officers, reducing the impact of drugs and drug related crimes in the region. Despite scant funding this past year, SCINT has been extremely effective in seizing drugs and illegal firearms. But, in order to continue their good work, they require more funds. “The up-date to the Coos Bay ice dock is long overdue. The current ice machine is expensive to repair and is an environmental and human health hazard. Without the new machine, commercial fishing in Coos Bay would be jeopardized. This would further damage the already hard hit coastal economy,” DeFazio continued. The Charleston ice dock in Coos Bay serves 400 commercial fishing vessels daily. The existing system is prohibitively expensive to repair and emits noxious fumes which pose a health hazard to the environment and the community. If the system were not replaced, it would threaten the entire commercial fishing industry in the area because there is no other public ice dock in Southern Oregon. The funding was included in The Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010. The bill must now be passed by the Senate before it heads to the White House for President Obama’s signature.
12.10.2009	“With rising gas prices and increasing road congestion, we are literally loving our public transportation systems to death. Sadly, transit is generally badly underfunded, making investments of this kind vital to meeting the public demand. I am pleased people will be able to continue to utilize this valuable public asset,” DeFazio said. The money will go toward buying two new handicapped accessible biodiesel buses in order to retire buses which have outlasted their life expectancy. Replacing these old buses will increase service reliability and reduce the cost of maintenance of the bus fleet. This means funds can instead be used to provide expanded transit services. “The disease reduction project for Klamath River salmon is critical to restoring a healthy salmon population on the South Coast. Our fishing communities are suffering under recent closures,” DeFazio continued. “Without projects like this one, the closures of the salmon season will continue, Oregon, fishing communities will continue to suffer, and we will lose an important asset to the state economy.” The fishing industry is vital to the coastal Oregon economy. The salmon season has been closed or significantly curtailed the past three years due to the continued decline in salmon returning to the Sacramento and Klamath Rivers, which typically make a significant contribution to the Oregon fishery. Approximately 3,000 licensed commercial salmon fishermen in Oregon and California depend directly on Klamath River Chinook Salmon production for income. Healthy fish runs also support the recreational fishery and the guides, motels and restaurants on the coast and in the Klamath Basin. This funding will help revitalize the Oregon fish population and put fishermen back to work. The funding was included in The Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010. The bill must now be passed by the Senate before it heads to the White House for President Obama’s signature.
12.07.2009	"I'm proud that the 4th congressional district has defended its title in this year's Reuse-a-Shoe Challenge and won for the third year in a row. Communities in Southwest Oregon really pitched in and helped us clear the hurdles in the competition this time, crushing last year’s record by more than 1,000 pairs. We would never have been able to sprint to the finish and bring home the gold without such tremendous support,” DeFazio said. “I would also like to thank Nike and the Climate Group for organizing this fantastic program again this year.” The reward, for being named champions of this illustrious competition is a donation of Nike sports equipment to the Boys and Girls Club of the Umpqua Valley. The club daily serves more than 300 Douglas County children. The win comes at a good time; Douglas County has been particularly hard hit by the economic recession and has an unemployment rate of nearly 16%. “I especially want to thank the Umpqua Boys and Girls Club for being such a great partner in this year’s shoe-drive. The Club is a treasure in the community, providing kids with a safe afterschool environment to study, meet friends, play sports and build a positive sense of themselves. I know the equipment Nike donates will be put to good use!” DeFazio continued. The donated shoes will be ground up and turned into resurfaced tracks. Nike co-sponsors this event to help promote physical fitness among kids.
12.04.2009	“Rural counties in Southwest Oregon are already suffering from high unemployment and teetering on the economic brink. We need jobs and we need them now. Resource Advisory Committees have been highly effective at designing projects that create good paying jobs and that make needed improvements on public lands. We need RAC appointments in order to get projects out the door and put people back to work. These positions need to be filled quickly by the Secretary,” DeFazio said. The purpose of the RACs is to bring together a diverse cross-section of local citizens to design and implement collaborative projects on national forests. The RACS have been a tremendous success. Over the last eight years, 55 RACs have been formed and have implemented over 5,000 projects, not one of which has been litigated. These projects may include road, trail, and infrastructure maintenance or removal; improvements in forest health; and the restoration, maintenance, and improvement of wildlife and fish habitat. When Congress reauthorized the Secure Rural Schools Act in 2008, it created 69 new RACs for a total of 124 RACs. Unfortunately, last year, due to the back-log of appointments, 89 of the total 124 RACs were unable to fulfill their responsibilities because they did not have enough approved members to constitute a quorum. As a result, of the $52 million allocated to counties for RAC projects in 2008, only $26 million has been committed to projects. Without approved RAC members, efforts to preserve and create jobs will continue to be stalled. The letter is below: December 04, 2009 The Honorable Thomas J. Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing today to urge you to address implementation problems associated with the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (PL 110-343). Specifically, we request that you quickly approve the appointment of Resource Advisory Committee members and provide necessary clarification of allowable activities as defined in Title III of the Act. As you know, in 2000 the United States Congress passed, and the President signed, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (Act). The intent of this legislation was to give rural counties and school districts within forested areas relief from the decline in national forest receipts. In 2008, Congress reauthorized the Act to give our rural counties the certainty they need to maintain schools, roads, law enforcement and critical public services. As a part of that legislation, we included one of the most successful features of the Act, the establishment of local Resource Advisory Committees (RACs). The purpose of the RACs is to bring together a diverse cross-section of local citizens to design and implement collaborative projects on national forests. Over the last eight years, 55 RACs have been formed and have implemented over 5,000 projects. Of those 5,000 projects, not one has been litigated. When Congress reauthorized the Act in 2008 an additional 69 RACs were created. Unfortunately, last year, 89 of the total 124 RACs were unable to fulfill their responsibilities to either Congress or their local communities because they lack sufficient approved members to constitute a quorum. Of the $52 million allocated to counties for RAC projects in 2008, only $26 million has been committed to projects due to lack of quorums or lack of approved charters. Without approved RAC members, efforts to preserve and create jobs have been stalled. We understand that the Department has nearly 700 individuals awaiting RAC appointments. While we understand that you continue to work toward filling vacant positions at the Department, we are concerned that more immediate action is needed to approve these individuals expeditiously under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA). Quick approval is needed to ensure RACs can meet their responsibilities, projects can be approved, and much needed jobs maintained and created. We also request your assistance in providing clarification on the authorized uses of Title III funds. Under the PL 110-343, many previously authorized used of Title III funds were eliminated and/or modified for a variety of reasons. Previously, counties were able to use Title III dollars to fund educational programs, to reimburse emergency services paid for by counties and performed on federal land, to maintain community service work camps, and to educate and provide resources to communities and homeowners in order to encourage prevention and reduce the impacts of wildfire. In light of recent changes, clarification is desperately needed to help define the scope of allowable reimbursements for approved activities. In Section 401, Congress required the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior to issue regulations to carry out the purposes of the Act. The timely issuance of regulations would help to resolve many of the unanswered questions associated with implementation of the Act. Since enactment of the program in October 2008, we have seen no evidence that the regulatory process is being initiated. Please provide Congress a clear timeline on your planned compliance with Section 401 of the Act. Moving forward to resolve these importance implementation and compliance concerns will aid efforts to preserve and create jobs. We appreciate your commitment to our rural communities, and we urge you to expeditiously resolve this backlog and make appropriate RAC appointments. We look forward to working with you to implement this critically important program to move forward with projects that will stimulate local rural economies. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Nick Rahall Raúl Grijalva Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Rob Bishop Greg Walden Mike Thompson Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Travis Childers Walt Minnick Allen Boyd Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Cynthia Lummis Cathy McMorris Rodgers Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Don Young Rick Boucher Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress David Wu Wally Herger James Oberstar Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Denny Rehberg Stephanie Herseth-Sandlin Brian Baird Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Glenn Thompson Ann Kirkpatrick Heath Shuler Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
12.03.2009	“Our nation continues to be crippled by a struggling economy which has resulted in an astronomical unemployment rate of 10.2%. The American taxpayers bailed out Wall Street during a crisis brought on by reckless speculation in the financial markets. This legislation will force Wall Street to do their part and put people displaced by that crisis back to work,” DeFazio said. “I voted against the absurd bank bailout and the Bush Administration’s cowboy capitalism, markets know best, deregulation at all cost policies. Our stunning unemployment rate is clearly a result of the failure of those policies. We cannot wait for the next bubble to pull us out of the recession. We must invest in our future, our infrastructure, and our middle class now. This legislation will ensure Wall Street pay for needed investment to get our country back on track,” DeFazio continued Harkin intends to introduce similar legislation in the Senate next week. “It is time to raise revenues, pay the bills and create jobs in America, and the most painless way to do this is by imposing a modest tax on financial transactions,” Senator Harkin said. “There is no question that Wall Street can easily bear this tax. Last year, the U.S. taxpayer bailed out Goldman Sachs to the tune of $10 billion. This year, Goldman Sachs has set aside nearly $17 billion for bonuses. We need a shift in priorities in this country to ask not what America can do for Wall Street, but ask what Wall Street can do for America.” The legislation assesses a small securities transaction tax on Wall Street. . A securities transaction tax is applied to: Stock transactions (tax rate will be 1/4 of 1 percent--0.25%), Futures contracts to buy or sell a specified commodity of standardized quality at a certain date in the future, at a market determined price (tax rate will be 0.02%) Swaps between two firms on certain benefits of one party's financial instrument for those of the other party's financial instrument (tax rate will be 0.02%) Credit default swaps where a contract is swapped through a series of payments in exchange for a payoff if a credit instrument (typically a bond or loan) goes into default (fails to pay) (tax rate will be 0.02%) And options, which are contracts between a buyer and a seller that gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or to sell a particular asset on or before the option's expiration time, at an agreed price (at the rate of the underlying asset) A transaction tax has the support of over 200 economists, including Paul Krugman business leaders like John Bogle, the founder of Vangard, and labor and consumer organizations such as AFL-CIO and Americans for Financial Reform. It will provide a disincentive for excessive speculation. Much of the excessive risk on Wall Street is in the form of high-volume short-term speculative trading. The tax could raise approximately $150 billion a year. To ensure the tax is appropriately targeted to speculators and has no impact on the average investor and pension funds, the tax will be refunded for: tax-favored retirement accounts mutual funds education savings accounts health savings accounts the first $100,000 of transactions annually that are not already exempted Half the revenue generated by this transaction tax (approximately $75 billion) would be deposited in a Job Creation Reserve to fund the creation of good paying jobs and put Americans back to work rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure. Each $1 billion of Federal infrastructure investment creates or sustains over 34,000 American jobs and $6.2 billion in economic activity. The Surface Transportation Authorization Act of 2009, which would will create or sustain over 12.5 million family wage jobs, would be partially funded through this tax. The second half of the revenue generated by this transaction tax (approximately $75 billion) would be used to directly reduce the deficit.
11.18.2009	November 18, 2009 Washington, DC –Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted for H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act. The legislation will prevent a 21% cut in physician reimbursements next year and permanently reform the Medicare payment system. Without this legislation, doctors are scheduled to take a 21% cut in reimbursements starting in January. This would be disastrous for the 580,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Oregon. Doctors wouldn’t take patients and seniors would not be able to get medical care. “This is a big victory for the 137,000 seniors on Medicare in Southwest Oregon. Every day I hear from seniors who say they can’t find doctors that will accept new Medicare patients because the reimbursements are too low. Slashing payments to doctors another 21% would be utterly devastating. Physicians would stop taking Medicare patients at all. That is totally unacceptable. This legislation will fix the immediate problem and keep providers from falling further behind,” DeFazio said. “But, there is still a problem particular to Oregon that needs a long-term fix–the outdated formula that has had Oregon and 16 other states locked in to unfair and outdated reimbursement rates. I am pleased that I was able to help get language included in the recently passed House health care reform bill that will actually increase reimbursement rates for doctors and other providers in Oregon. These two pieces of legislation together will ensure that seniors have access to the quality health care they deserve,” DeFazio continued. This bill tackles seniors’ main concern – preventing reimbursement cuts that could force doctors to stop seeing Medicare patients. It also builds on the historic health insurance reform bill the House passed earlier this month. The reform bill will lower premiums, extend the solvency of Medicare, improve preventive and primary care for seniors, and close the coverage gap for seniors who incur drug costs between $2,700 and $6,154 yearly --commonly referred to as the “donut-hole”. Perhaps most importantly for Oregon, the health reform bill will fix the outdated “geographic disparities” that exist in the Medicare reimbursement formula. These disparities lock Oregon, and 16 other states, into unfairly low rates.
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman DeFazio’s (D-OR) legislation, H.R.3759, a measure to provide relief to the struggling Oregon timber industry, passed out of the House Natural Resources Committee by unanimous consent today. Economic conditions have made it unprofitable for companies to move forward with some timber sales and they face having to do projects at a loss or defaulting on their contracts. DeFazio’s legislation, which had strong bipartisan support in committee, provides the Department of Interior with the authority to grant one-time contract extensions to Bureau of Land Management (BLM) timber sale purchasers. “Timber dependent communities are already suffering from high unemployment and teetering on the economic brink. If companies are forced to harvest when prices are low, or default on contracts, we will lose mills and jobs. The Forest Service already has the authority to extend contracts in times of dire market conditions. The type of work being performed under these BLM contracts would be almost identical to the type of work being performed on Forest Service lands,” DeFazio said. Due to the economic recession, the collapse of the housing market, and low timber prices, BLM sales purchasers face the untenable decision of whether to default on their contracts set to expire in 2009 and 2010 or harvest the wood at great economic loss. Timber companies defaulting on their contracts would face a large fine and difficulties securing future contracts. This would have disastrous consequences on their businesses, subcontractors, suppliers and local communities. DeFazio’s legislation would provide the needed short-term relief to sale purchasers while Congress considers a long-term legislative solution. The Forest Service already has similar authorities to provide economic-related timber contract extensions. In June, DeFazio, along with Representatives Rehberg and Schrader (D-OR) and Senators Wyden (D-OR), Merkley (D-OR), Baucus (D-MT) and Tester (D-MT) wrote to Interior Secretary Salazar and asked him to extend these contracts administratively. Secretary Salazar responded saying he lacks the authority to do that. Fifty companies hold 90 contracts in Oregon that would be eligible to be extended under this legislation. A few contracts have already expired and in order to address those contracts, the legislation is retroactive to all contracts executed on or before December 31, 2008. “I hope to get this bill to the full House quickly. We are in good shape to take quick, responsible action to provide necessary relief struggling Oregon timber industry,” DeFazio continued.
11.07.2009	November 7, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted to bring relief to millions of Americans one catastrophic illness or accident away from personal bankruptcy. H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which passed the House of Representatives, reduces the deficit, provides stability and security for Americans who currently have health insurance, and an affordable, quality option for those who don't. “This bill reforms the worst and most lucrative abuses of the insurance industry. It takes away their unfair anti-trust immunity, meaning they no longer can collude or price-fix to drive up premiums or restrict coverage. If we didn’t do anything else, this will go a long way toward bringing down the cost of health care coverage,” DeFazio said. “This bill outlaws the unfair pre-existing condition restriction and would not allow insurance companies to cancel policies when someone gets sick, even though you have paid your premiums. The bill limits annual out of pocket costs and prohibits hidden, small print lifetime coverage caps that force families into bankruptcy. It improves Medicare coverage for all Americans and improves Medicare reimbursements for Oregon’s seniors and disabled. This plan isn’t perfect but it is a good start towards providing affordable coverage to all Americans,” DeFazio continued. Prevents insurance companies from colluding to drive up costs DeFazio has been a leader in the fight to require the health insurance industry to play by the same rules that govern every other industry in the United States. The insurance industry has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed in 1945. This exemption was intended to be temporary, but it has not turned out that way. DeFazio’s language, which was included in H.R. 3962, subjects the health insurance industry to all federal anti-trust laws and unambiguously gives the Federal Trade Commission authority to investigate and go after the offenders. The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone could save consumers 10% to 25% in insurance premiums. Lowers the deficit Some of those opposed to the health reform bill have said it is just too expensive and will add a huge amount of money to the deficit. This is false. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the House bill will actually reduce the deficit by $104 billion over the first ten years (2010-2019), and will continue to reduce the deficit over the second ten year period (2020-2029). Ends discrimination in the health insurance industry Under the bill, insurance companies would no longer be able to deny coverage to a person based on a “pre-existing condition” such as diabetes, high blood pressure or family history. Insurance companies would also no longer be able to cancel coverage because a person became ill. Provides better access to YOUR doctor The legislation is not a government takeover of health care. It does not require anyone to take the public health insurance option. It will not get between anyone and their doctor. It will actually improve employee based coverage for 408,000 people in the Fourth Congressional District of Oregon. Furthermore, if someone does not have health insurance it will provide Affordability Credits to help buy insurance, and a New Health Insurance Exchange which provides affordable coverage options. This will make it possible for 86,000 people in Southwest Oregon who are currently not covered to get insurance. The bill also gives a 10% incentive payment to primary care doctors that serve in rural areas as well as increased payments to all primary care doctors. This is why the legislation is endorsed by the American Medical Association, the largest physicians organization in the country. Does not raise taxes for 99.85% of residents in Southwestern Oregon One-half of the bill is paid for by targeting waste, fraud, and inefficiency in private Medicare Advantage plans and Medicaid. The other half is paid for through a surcharge on income for families over $1 million, a tax rate half what it was during the Eisenhower era. This means 99.85% of the residents in the Fourth Congressional District will not have an increase in their taxes. Improves Medicare for Oregonians In Oregon doctors are increasingly refusing to take Medicare patients because the reimbursement rate is so low they lose money on every patient. This is because Oregon, and 16 other states, are locked into low rates calculated using an outdated formula. DeFazio worked to include language in the House passed health reform bill to fix this inequity. The health reform bill will actually improve Medicare for 137,000 beneficiaries in Southwest Oregon. Not only will Oregonians have better access to doctors, that care will be more affordable. The bill eliminates all co-pays for preventative services such as screenings for diabetes, cancer and osteoporosis. It also gives educational incentives to go into primary care or to practice in rural areas to address doctor shortages in those areas. Protects Medicare for the Future Opponents have told seniors that reform will lead to a “cut” in Medicare benefits. The bill has been endorsed by the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) because it will make Medicare stronger and more fiscally sound for the future by eliminating billions of dollars of waste and abuse. For instance, Medicare pays up to 20% more nationally to treat beneficiaries under these for profit Medicare Advantage plans than it does under regular Medicare. Oregon administers Medicare Advantage more efficiently than most states. The bill actually provides increased incentive payments to plans that are considered “high quality” like the ones we have in Oregon. Helps small businesses Insurance costs for small businesses have increased 129% since 2000. Small business employees pay an average of 18% more in premiums than those in large firms for the same benefits. Their deductibles are more than double. The House bill will help 20,000 small businesses in the Fourth Congressional District – allowing them access to affordable, large-group rates, insurance plans with better benefits, and eliminating discriminatory pricing. Lowers the cost of prescription drugs for seniors AARP found that from 2002 to 2007 the average yearly cost of prescription medications for individuals on Medicare nearly doubled. Reigning in the exploding cost of prescription drugs is essential to affordable health coverage. Every year, millions of seniors are forced into the dreaded Medicare Part D “donut hole” that was passed by President Bush and the Republican controlled Congress. This means that any prescription medication costs accrued between $2,700 and $6,154 yearly will not be covered by Medicare. The House bill will immediately begin the process of eliminating this donut hole, affecting over 14,000 seniors in the Fourth Congressional District. It also provides a 50% reduction on brand name drug prices for seniors while the donut hole is being phased out. The bill will significantly lower the costs of drugs seniors by allowing Medicare to negotiate for lower drug prices for Part D beneficiaries and by creating an FDA approval process for cheaper generic versions of expensive high-tech drugs. The Veterans Administration has negotiated rates 80% less than Medicare beneficiaries for the identical, non-generic versions of ten of the most popular drugs. In order to protect their friends in the pharmaceutical industry, the Republican congress passed legislation that specifically prohibited Medicare from negotiating for lower drug prices. Many of these drugs are used to treat serious conditions that afflict millions of seniors like rheumatoid arthritis and cancer. To access video actuality: Go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GOg6TbYimZI
11.06.2009	Washington, DC--U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today asked Commerce Secretary Locke to examine his administrative authorities to provide relief to fishermen participating in the West Coast Groundfish Fishery Capacity Reduction (buyback) Program. DeFazio was joined by several of his colleagues in the House who represent fishing interests in California, Oregon, and Washington: Reps. Norm Dicks (D-WA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), David Wu (D-OR), Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR). “The program was intended to salvage the groundfish industry but, the terms of the loan are not realistic in this economy. Fishermen have been faithfully making payments for 6 years but, they still owe as much now as they did 6 years ago. I am asking Secretary Locke to review the buyback program to determine his options to renegotiate the terms of the loans under the buyback program. Without some relief, I am concerned about the ability of fishermen to meet their obligations,” DeFazio said. The buyback program, which was designed to respond to overfishing of West Coast ground fish, was authorized by Congress in 2003. The program allowed the government to buy out over 90 fishing vessels and permits in order to reduce the levels of ground fish being harvested. Of the $45,662,471 authorized for the program, $10 million was appropriated by Congress. The remaining $35,662,471 was financed by 30-year federal loans to be repaid by fishermen remaining in the industry at an interest rate of 6.97 percent. More than 1,000 fishermen on the West Coast operating hundreds of vessels are making payments on the loans in the form of a 5 percent tax on their landings. However, 6 years into the program, fishermen have not yet been able to pay down the principal on the loans because of the large amount of interest that accrued during the program implementation period. Given the bad economy and recent disruptions to the West Coast groundfish fishery, DeFazio and his colleagues have serious concerns that participants of the buyback program will not be able to pay back the principal of the loans in the foreseeable future, let alone with in the remaining 25 years. The letter urges Secretary Locke to examine options for altering the loans so that fishermen might more realistically be able to meet their obligations. The letter is below: The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce Room 5421 Fourteenth Street and Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Secretary Locke: We are writing to request that you review your authorities to determine what relief may be available for participants of the West Coast Groundfish Fishery Capacity Reduction (buyback) Program. As you know, the buyback program was authorized February 20, 2003, by Public Law 108-7. The National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) implemented the program through a series of Federal Register notices in 2003, which culminated in the disbursement of $45,662,471 to the 91 accepted bidders. Of the $45,662,471, $10 million was appropriated by Congress. The remaining cost of the program was covered by 30-year federal loans with a principal totaling $35,662,471. The interest rate for these loans was set at 6.97 percent. After the buyback program was authorized by Congress, NMFS developed and implemented rules and regulations for the program. This process began in March, 2004 and was not completed until September, 2005. During this 18-month period, interest accrued on the loans but fishermen were not allowed to begin paying back the loans. The accrued interest from March, 2004 to September, 2005 has been a significant financial obstacle for West Coast groundfish fishermen. To date, participants of the West Coast Groundfish buyback program have paid $8,777,677 in interest to the Treasury. Four years after the program began, the outstanding principal of the federal loans remains at $35,662,471. Given the recent disruptions to the West Coast groundfish fishery, we have serious concerns that participants of the buyback program will not be able to pay back the $35,662,471 principal of the loans in the foreseeable future, let alone in the remaining 25 years. Without some sort of relief, the principal of the loans may never be paid back. More importantly, the West Coast groundfish fleet – and the families and communities they sustain – will be in serious peril. The West Coast buyback program was developed with the intention of reducing fishing capacity in order to ensure the continuation of the groundfish fishery. The high interest rates, depressed economy, and instability of the fishery place the success of this program in jeopardy. We respectfully request that you review the administrative regulations, rules, and authorities available to the Department of Commerce to provide much needed relief to participants of the West Coast buyback program. Specifically, we request that you consider the following questions: Do you have the authority to renegotiate the terms of the loans? Do you have the authority to forgive the interest accrued between March, 2004 and September, 2005, when participants of the buyback program were not able to begin paying back the loans? Do you have the authority to put a freeze on interest payments when the fishing season is closed or limited? Thanks for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Norm Dicks Mike Thompson Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Kurt Schrader David Wu Sam Farr Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Doris Matsui Lois Capps Member of Congress Member of Congress
11.04.2009	“I am encouraged that these much needed changes—changes I have been fighting for—are going to be included in the final House health reform bill, but I am still working through the details of the legislation. I applaud the House leaders for giving Congress and the public more than 72 hours to review the bill and make an informed decision before voting on it,” DeFazio said. DeFazio has been a leader in the fight to require the health insurance industry to play by the same rules that govern every other industry in the United States. The insurance industry has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed by Congress in 1945. This exemption was intended to be temporary, but it has not turned out that way. “Repeal of the industry’s anti-trust exemption will effectively end the notorious anti-competitive practices of the insurance industry. Currently, insurance companies can, and do, collude to set prices, share or divide markets, restrict coverage and discriminate against the American people based on pre-existing conditions or medical history. We must give the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) unambiguous authority to investigate these illegal activities. My provision will put the insurance industry on notice that these practices will no longer be endured and they can no longer price gouge consumers. This is an essential step in the fight to lower health care costs for all Americans and bring much needed reform,” DeFazio said. DeFazio’s language, which was included today as part of the manager’s amendment, subjects the health insurance industry to all federal anti-trust laws and unambiguously gives the FTC authority to investigate and go after the offenders. The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone could save consumers 10% to 25% in insurance premiums. The bill also includes language to fix Medicare geographic inequities, an essential change for Oregonians. Oregon has long been discriminated against in the Medicare payment structure, resulting in one of the lowest reimbursement rates in the country, despite producing some of the best health outcomes. For example, in Oregon—according to the latest figures—federal spending for a Medicare enrollee averages $7,000, while an enrollee in Miami, Florida averages $17,000. This is because Medicare currently uses an antiquated method to calculate reimbursement rates that does not accurately represent the cost of doing business in states like Oregon. More and more Oregon doctors are refusing to take Medicare patients because the reimbursement rate is so low they cannot afford to care for patients. This is especially a burden for seniors in rural areas with fewer provider options. This language is a major step in fixing this inequity. “This reform is long over-due. Fifteen percent of Oregonians are on Medicare and Doctors are already refusing to take many of these patients because reimbursement rates are so low. We’ve been working for years to correct that,” DeFazio said. “Eugene is the fifth most efficient Medicare market in the country. We should not be punished for providing efficient and high-quality care. This is great news for Oregon and the 16 other states high-quality, low-cost Medicare providers.” In order to fix the geographic disparity and implement quality care in the long-term, the bill will establish two studies to be conducted by the independent Institute of Medicine. The first study will evaluate and recommend long-term changes to address the geographic disparities in Medicare reimbursement rates. The second study will provide recommendations on changing the Medicare payment system to reward efficient delivery of outcome-based, high quality, evidence–based, patient centered care. “These are essential steps in bringing down the cost of health care and ensuring that every American has access to the care they need,” DeFazio continued.
10.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Peter Welch (D-VT), Bart Stupak (D-MI) and Gene Taylor (D-MS) today sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi, urging her to include language in the health reform bill that would require the health insurance industry to operate under the same anti-trust laws as all other industries. The health insurance industry–as well as all other lines of insurance–has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed by Congress in 1945. This exemption was intended to be temporary, but it has not turned out that way. The insurance industry claims that it are currently subject to state anti-trust laws. The truth is many states have limited resources to investigate and go after anti-trust violations. Repealing the antiquated McCarran-Ferguson law would effectively end insurance company collusion and bring much-needed competition to the industry. The Consumer Federation of America has said that this action alone would save consumers more than $40 billion in insurance premiums. The letter, also signed by Reps. John W. Olver, Daniel Lipinski, Pete Visclosky, Raul Grijalva, Betty Sutton, Elijah E. Cummings, Dennis Kucinich, Eric Massa, Earl Blumenauer, Brian Baird and Bob Filner, is available below: October 22, 2009 Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi: We have all heard the stories about the excesses of the health insurance industry: the use of rescission to dump sick people from the insurance rolls, refusing to renew polices of high-cost patients and denying coverage to individuals with pre-existing conditions, all for the sake of profits. Health insurance reform is desperately needed. Yet of all the proposals on how best to reform the insurance industry and its practices, one above all other would rein in insurance companies’ anti-competitive behavior and save consumers billions of dollars in premiums. The proposal is simple: Require the health insurance industry to operate under the same anti-trust laws as all other industries. We appreciate that the Judiciary Committee has just finished its mark on HR 3596, the Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act of 2009. Their bill is necessary and essential, but is likely more narrowly based than required to effectively eliminate the problem. The Judiciary bill repeals the antitrust exemption for three specific practices (bid rigging, market allocation, and price fixing). It does not ensure that the FTC has the power to go after the offenders, an essential step to restoring competition in the marketplace. That is why we are asking that the health reform bill subjects the health insurance industry to all federal anti-trust laws and unambiguously give the FTC authority to investigate and go after the offenders. The health insurance industry, as well as all other lines of insurance, has operated beyond the reach of America's anti-trust laws for more than six decades since the McCarran-Ferguson Act was passed by Congress in 1945. This exemption was intended to be temporary, but it has not turned out that way. If there ever was, there is no longer any justification to exempt the insurance industry from federal anti-trust law. The insurance industry claims that they are currently subject to state anti-trust laws. The truth is many states have limited resources to investigate and go after anti-trust violations. Applying federal anti-trust law to the industry will provide an important backstop for states and help end anti-competitive, collusive conduct such as price fixing, agreements not to pay, and divvying up the market in non-competitive ways. Repeal of the industry’s anti-trust exemption would effectively end insurance company collusion and bring much-needed competition to the industry. Furthermore, giving the FTC unambiguous authority to investigate these illegal activities would put the insurance industry on notice that these practices will no longer be endured. The Consumer Federation of America has said that consumers would save more than $40 billion in insurance premiums if the antiquated McCarran-Ferguson law was repealed. This action has garnered bipartisan support from people such as Governor Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, former Majority Leader Trent Lott and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy. Even President Obama has expressed support for repealing the anti-trust exemption. In 2005, while serving in the U.S. Senate, he was an original cosponsor of the Medical Malpractice Insurance Antitrust Act, which would have repealed the McCarran-Ferguson Act for medical malpractice insurance. In 2008, while campaigning for president, he added it as a provision in his health care proposal. Insurers may object to being subject to the same anti-trust laws as everyone else, but their concerns are outweighed by the financial burden rising premiums unfairly place on consumers. Consumers have the right to be confident that the cost of their insurance, and the decisions by their insurance carriers about which claims will be paid, reflect competitive market conditions, not collusive behavior. Sincerely, Rep. Peter DeFazio Rep. Bart Stupak Rep. Peter Welch Rep. Gene Taylor Rep. John W. Olver Rep. Daniel Lipinski Rep. Pete Visclosky Rep. Raul Grijalva Rep. Betty Sutton Rep. Elijah E. Cummings Rep. Dennis Kucinich Rep. Eric Massa Rep. Earl Blumenauer Rep. Brian Baird Rep. Bob Filner
10.21.2009	October 20, 2009 Washington, D.C. -- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that special payments are available to over 185,000 service members who have had their enlistments involuntarily extended since September 11, 2001. Starting today, $500 for every month they were held under stop-loss orders will be made available. Congress established this payment as part of the 2009 War Supplemental Appropriations Act which was enacted this summer. “These men and women have literally served above and beyond the call of duty. We have a volunteer military and the stop-loss orders were bad policy that amounted to a back-door draft. These payments are the least we can do given the hardship these soldiers and their families have had to endure,” DeFazio said. The Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay is available to service members who had their enlistment extended or retirement suspended due to Stop Loss between Sept. 11, 2001 and Sept. 30, 2009. Service members from every branch of the military will receive compensation. Service members may begin submitting their claim for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay today. All applications must be submitted to the respective services no later than Oct. 21, 2010. Service members must provide documented proof they were Stop Lossed with their claim. Family members of deceased service members should contact the appropriate military service for assistance in filing their claim. Army: https://www.stoplosspay.army.mil Navy: send email to –NXAG_N132C@navy.mil Marine Corps: https://www.manpower.usmc.mil/stoploss Air Force: https://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/stoploss Over the last two and a half years, Congress has worked hard to improve the lives of America’s veterans. In addition to the stop-loss legislation, DeFazio supported passage of the New GI Bill, improvements in veterans’ hospitals and facilities, expanded economic opportunities for returning soldiers and improved care for those with PTSD.
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) was joined today by the other Democratic members of the Oregon Congressional Delegation in sending a letter to Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, urging him to invest in wave energy technology. “Wave energy is a revolutionary industry—and one for which the technology is available and ready for commercialization. And, because a large percentage of the population lives near a coastline, generating energy near this population makes perfect sense,” DeFazio said. “However, the industry is in its infancy. Department of Energy can play an important role in supporting the developing wave energy industry. I hope Secretary Chu will consider wave energy as he develops plans for our country’s renewable energy future.” The letter is available below: October 15, 2009 The Honorable Steven Chu Secretary Department of Energy 1000 Independence Ave Washington, DC 20585-0001 Dear Secretary Chu: Since your appointment, you have demonstrated a deep commitment to investing in our country’s renewable energy future. We applaud you for this, and we are grateful that you understand how vital these industries are to our nation’s well-being. We are also interested in ensuring that wave energy, another emerging renewable energy technology, receives the attention it deserves in the Department of Energy’s stimulus spending. We were disappointed that the Administration cut the 2010 request by $10 million for Water Power Research and Development to $30 million. We believe congressional intent was clear with the 2010 Energy and Water Conference Report boosting funding to $50 million, indicating clear support for a robust water power program that includes wave energy. Wave energy is a revolutionary industry—and one for which the technology is available and ready for commercialization. By harnessing the immense power of the naturally occurring oceanic waves, we believe that wave energy can eventually supply electricity to millions of Americans. Since a large percentage of the population lives near a coastline, generating energy near this population makes sense. The technology has the capacity to employ large numbers of people in a variety of fields, from technological development to service and repair of equipment. Oregon, and the United States more generally, has the capacity to play a pioneering role in the worldwide development of wave energy. Oregon is an ideal location for wave energy conversion based primarily on its tremendous wave resources and coastline transmission capacity. DOE has already recognized this fact by selecting Oregon State University and its partner, the University of Washington, as one of two National Marine Renewable Energy Research Centers. The wave energy industry, however, is still in its infancy. Just as the wind and solar industries benefited greatly from government support in their early years, the wave projects planned need similar support to move from research and development to commercialization. The Department of Energy can play an important role in supporting the developing wave energy industry. As the Department of Energy develops energy policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote energy independence, and put people back to work, we encourage you to seriously consider wave energy as a part of the overall energy solution. If we lose wave energy entrepreneurs to other countries more willing to invest in wave projects, we will miss an opportunity to play a leadership role in the development of wave energy. We also encourage you to seriously consider deploying funds, including funds appropriated by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), for wave energy projects that can be implemented and create jobs in the short term. There are already specific proposals for projects that can be deployed within the next year, resulting in commercialization within the next few years, and creating hundreds of jobs in the process. We understand that a substantial wave energy installation will happen next year off the coast of Reedsport, Oregon. As an economically depressed part of the state, this region would greatly benefit in ways that directly meet the goals of ARRA. We look forward to further discussing this issue with you, and hope that you or Undersecretary Johnson will consider meeting with industry leaders to discuss the overall potential of wave energy, its specific application in Oregon, and the merits of the projects being proposed. Sincerely, Rep. Peter DeFazio Rep. Earl Blumeauer Rep. Kurt Schrader Rep. David Wu Sen. Ron Wyden Sen. Jeff Merkley
10.14.2009	October 14, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) was pleased today that President Obama announced that he will support a one-time, $250 payment to Social Security beneficiaries. The payment was introduced by DeFazio and Sen. Sander (I-VT) last month as part of the Emergency Senior Citizens Relief Act. Without the payment, 50 million seniors will see their Social Security stagnate because – for the first time since 1975 – there will be no cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) next year. “It is absurd that seniors would be denied a Cost of Living adjustment next year. The cost of many things seniors have to buy—especially Medicare and prescription drugs—have gone up dramatically. Last month, I introduced legislation to give beneficiaries a one-time, $250 payment, which would equate to about a 2% COLA. I am pleased that today the President of the United States has decided to support this payment,” DeFazio said. Though President Obama supports the DeFazio-Sanders payment, he wants to borrow the money to compensate for it. DeFazio and Sanders would like to instead change the tax structure to make the plan deficit neutral. Today, DeFazio reintroduced the Emergency Senior Citizens Relief Act in the House so that it now subjects income over $1,290,000 to the Social Security payroll tax (FICA). This ensures the $250 payment to our seniors is not paid for on the backs of future generations. “It is not too much to ask that those who are the wealthiest among us pay the same rate of tax as average working Americans so our seniors can have a much needed cost of living adjustment next year. Though I welcome the Presidents support of the $250 payment and I look forward to working with him but, I don’t want us to borrow the money to provide this payment,” DeFazio said. Without action, Social Security monthly benefits would drop because the cost of Medicare prescription drug premiums, which are deducted from Social Security payments, are scheduled to increase. The Social Security COLA is calculated based on the consumer price index (CPI) and because of the economic downturn the CPI will not trigger a COLA increase next year. Nearly 70 percent of beneficiaries depend on Social Security for at least half of their income, and Social Security is the sole source of income for 15 percent of recipients.
09.30.2009	September 30, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today sent the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) a letter expressing his concern about the lack of progress on short-term and long-term timber plans for western Oregon. DeFazio requested the agency to provide details on its strategy to provide a sustainable and predictable supply of timber in western Oregon that would generate jobs and preserve the industry’s infrastructure. Included with the letter was DeFazio’s forest thinning proposal. “For the past eight years, the Bush Administration promised harvest levels that could never be delivered. That policy was a disaster for the industry and timber-dependent communities. Without quick action from the BLM, unemployment in rural Oregon counties will continue to rise and the infrastructure that supports timber-dependent communities will continue to disappear. We need jobs today. We have an enormous backlog of work that can be completed on our public lands now. And quick action by the BLM is crucial to putting Oregon back on the path towards economic recovery,” DeFazio said. In June of this year, Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar announced his decision to withdraw the Bush-era timber harvest plan, known as the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR). The plan was withdrawn due to faulty science and improper political influence by Bush Administration officials. At that time, Secretary Salazar announced that the BLM would offer new non-controversial forest restoration and timber projects in the short-term while they figure out a longer-term solution. Currently, there is only one active timber sale in the five BLM districts that overlap DeFazio’s congressional district (the Beeline Thinning Sale in the Salem District). While a handful of small projects were sold in August and September, it is not a short-term plan that provides the predictability and certainty needed to secure jobs and timber infrastructure in western Oregon. In the long-term, DeFazio would like Secretary Salazar to consider his proposed timber plan which he included with the letter. “For too long, our timber dependent communities have suffered from controversy over cutting old growth. They deserve better. My thinning legislation would help us get beyond that controversy, improve forest health and provide much needed jobs and economic certainty to hard hit communities in southwest Oregon.” The letter is below: Wilma Lewis Assistant Secretary for Land and Mineral Management U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW, Mail Stop 200 Washington, DC 20240-0001 Tom Strickland Assistant Secretary for Fish, Wildlife, and Parks U.S. Department of the Interior 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Suite 330 Arlington, VA 22203 Dear Assistant Secretary Lewis and Assistant Secretary Strickland: I am writing to the Bureau of Land Management to help facilitate the development of a forestry plan that provides a sustainable and predictable supply of timber in western Oregon. I have serious concerns that without quick action from the BLM, unemployment in rural Oregon counties will continue to rise and the infrastructure that supports timber-dependent communities will continue to disappear. We need jobs today. We have an enormous backlog of work that can be completed on our public lands now. And quick action by the BLM is crucial to putting Oregon back on the path towards economic recovery. In the long-term, Oregon needs a workable forest policy that addresses two unresolved issues: certainty in timber supply to the timber industry and rural communities and protection of the small amount of remaining old growth in the Pacific Northwest. For too long, our timber-dependent communities have suffered from false starts and false promises, litigation, and controversy. They deserve better. Regrettably, the Bush Administration did not think so. The Bush Administration’s insistence on ignoring both science and law in crafting the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR) was a devastating blow to timber-dependent communities. Hundreds of family-wage jobs have been lost. Much needed management of our federal forests has been delayed. And after five years of work and $18 million, we are not any closer to providing a predictable timber supply to western Oregon land managers, mills, and families. I was critical of the WOPR from the beginning because I believed it would not pass legal muster and therefore fail to provide timber-related jobs in Oregon. In fact, more than two years ago I addressed the American Forest Resource Council at its annual meeting to predict the plan’s ultimate undoing because of the WOPR’s reliance on “political science” and the failure of the Bush Administration to go through the consultation process. My warnings were ignored then; but later the timber industry joined the environmental community in challenging the WOPR over the lack of consultation. As we came to expect, the Bush Administration left the clean-up of its politically tainted and legally indefensible plan to the Obama Administration. On the one hand, July 16, 2009 was a sad day for western Oregon communities when Secretary Salazar made the final – but inevitable - decision to withdraw the WOPR. On the other hand, it provides an opportunity to craft a forestry plan based on the best available science, avoid controversy, increase timber volume, and create good family-waged jobs. I was encouraged to hear from Secretary Salazar in July, 2009 of his intention to identify environmentally sound timber projects that can be quickly approved to create jobs and keep people working in the absence of the WOPR. I support the Secretary’s call to move forward quickly with BLM timber projects that would improve forest health and are necessary for maintaining and creating jobs in Oregon. However, I remain concerned about the current pace at which timber projects are being developed and offered for sale by the BLM. At the time I write this letter, there is only one active timber sale in the five BLM districts that overlap my congressional district (the Beeline Thinning Sale in the Salem District). While a handful of small projects were sold in August and September, this hardly provides the predictability and certainty needed to secure jobs and timber infrastructure in western Oregon. I respectfully request that the agency share with me its short-term strategy to develop and offer environmentally sound timber projects. What types of projects does the agency intend to offer in the near future? How many projects is the agency currently developing and when does the agency anticipate offering these sales? Is the agency prioritizing projects that will create the most jobs and avoid drawn-out litigation? For the long-term, I am eager to work with the Department of Interior to craft a plan that provides a predictable supply of timber and puts Oregonians back to work. Since the late-1990s, I have proposed an alternative forest plan based on restorative thinning to improve the health of federal forest, reduce the risk of fire, and to protect remaining old growth trees to avoid litigation and inaction. I have received extensive input from both the environmental community and the timber industry in crafting this alternative plan. My thinning proposal would help us get beyond the old growth controversy, improve forest health and provide much needed jobs and economic certainty to hard hit communities in Oregon. I respectfully request that the agency review my proposal and consider it as a possible long-term management approach for western Oregon. I would be interested in the agency’s views on such an approach and am happy to receive the agency’s recommendations on how my proposal could be strengthened. I have attached a copy of draft legislative text, a section by section, and FAQs page for your convenience. Moreover, I request that the agency analyze my proposal and provide expected timber volume estimates for my plan. As the agency moves forward in developing a short-term and long-term western Oregon forest management strategy, it would be helpful to have updated data on the number of BLM acres in need of restorative thinning and estimates for a sustainable, predictable timber supply. Thank you for your attention to these crucially important issues to the Fourth Congressional District, the state of Oregon, and the Pacific Northwest. I look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
09.24.2009	Mr. DeFAZIO. I thank the chairman. The gentleman from Virginia can try and change the subject about some future possible increase in gas tax or user fees. That is not what is before us today. Plain and simple, what is before us today is on October 1st, a very short time from now, will the States see a loss of $4.5 billion in funding for highway, bridge and transit projects across this country? Our economy is teetering, and they want to play politics with a simple extensionof existing policy under the existing gas tax, which has been the same since 1993. That is not too much to ask. But they want to play politics with that. They want to jeopardize it. They want to delay it. Now, let's just go to the delay. If they are totally successful, $4.5 billion in spending goes away October 1. Hundreds of thousands of jobs are lost. Transportation projects across the country come to a halt; transit systems grind to a halt, because the Federal funds aren't there, even though we can finance all those things, without borrowing a penny, out of the existing gas tax. That would go away too. Maybe that is the world they want to live in. I don't. Bridges falling down, transit systems that are unsafe to ride on, road surfaces that are unacceptable, growing congestion. That is not a vision for the future. But that apparently is their vision--the status quo or worse, because now they are talking about an 18-month extension. If we do an 18-month v, that will be 24 months or 30 months of the status quo, which is failing us. We aren't rebuilding the system; 160,000 bridges are weight limited, are functionally obsolete. People are sitting in congestion. Transit systems have $60 billion backlogs in outdated equipment. But that is okay with the Republicans, apparently. They want the status quo, because they are so afraid of talking about any sort of remedy of any type and any sort of investment. Then, if they aren't successful in killing the whole program, if they just delay this temporary extension, on October 1 the States will lose $1 billion under the continuing resolution, $1 billion, all across America. There is 20 percent unemployment in the construction trades, and they are going to increase that number because they want to walk away from the $1 billion that would be there with the simple extension of this program for 3 months. They can have the fight and the debate later when they want to play politics about the levels of investment in the bill and how we might get there. But that is 3 months from now or longer, depending upon what we can work out with the Senate. But the point is, you are playing politics here. You want to have a vote on a gas tax that isn't before this body, that is not likely to be before this body at any time in the near future, at least for 3 months if this bill is passed. Don't play politics with investment in our infrastructure. Don't play politics with the economy. Don't play politics with people's jobs. Don't bring America to a screeching halt on October 1 and walk away from your obligation to extend this program.
09.22.2009	WASHINGTON, September 17 2009– Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today introduced legislation to provide Social Security recipients an extra one-time payment next year of $250.Without the legislation, millions of seniors will see their Social Security checks shrink because – for the first time since 1975 – there will be no cost-of-living adjustment. Unless Congress passes the Emergency Senior Citizens Relief Act, Social Security monthly benefits would drop because the cost of Medicare prescription drug premiums, which are deducted from Social Security payments, are scheduled to increase. DeFazio said too many seniors are experiencing a decline in their living standards. “Failure to provide a cost-of-living increase for seniors could not come at a worse time. It would simply be unacceptable for seniors on fixed incomes to not receive the help they deserve to keep up with increased prices seniors pay for prescription drugs and medical care.” Sanders said millions of senior citizens are especially hard hit by the recession. “Many have seen their savings disappear, their pension funds severely decline and the value of their homes dramatically diminish – all while poverty among seniors has gone up, as has the number of seniors declaring bankruptcy. Seniors deserve a fair increase in benefits to keep up with these added costs and economic hardships.” Nearly 70 percent of beneficiaries depend on Social Security for at least half of their income, and Social Security is the sole source of income for 15 percent of recipients. To pay for the benefits boost, the legislation Sanders introduced in the Senate and DeFazio offered in the House of Representatives would apply the Social Security payroll tax on household incomes above $250,000 and below $359,000 in 2010. Under current law, only the first $106,800 of earned income is subject to the payroll tax.A worker earning $106,800 pays the same payroll tax as a CEO who makes millions of dollars a year. Their legislation begins to correct that inequity in 2010, while making sure that seniors receive a fair increase in benefits next year. No one earning $250,000 or less would see their taxes go up under the Sanders and DeFazio bills.
09.22.2009	September 21, 2009 Washington, DC -- Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted for H.R, 1348, the Unemployment Compensation Act of 2009. The legislation will extend unemployment benefits for an additional 13 weeks for workers in high unemployment states who are about to run out of benefits. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 330 to 83. In August, the national unemployment rate increased to 9.7 percent – the highest level in 26 years. In Oregon, the unemployment rate is the third highest in the nation at 12 percent, with a number of counties approaching 20 percent. “This extension is a much needed boost for struggling families and our ailing economy,” DeFazio said. “Unemployment insurance provides targeted and effective stimulus. These critical benefits will increase consumer spending in sluggish local economies and help families make ends meet.” H.R. 1348 will provide immediate assistance, extending relief to an estimated 314,000 workers nationally and 5,000 in Oregon. Their benefits would be exhausted by the end of the month without this extension. By the end of the year, this legislation will benefit over 11,000 Oregonians and one million people nationally whose benefits would have otherwise run out. Extending these benefits is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly. According to the Congressional Budget Office, every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic activity. Furthermore, this legislation will not add to the federal deficit. It will instead extend, for one additional year, the 30 year old federal unemployment tax and require better reporting on the start date of newly hired employees to reduce unemployment insurance overpayments.
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON, September 17, 2009 – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today introduced legislation to provide Social Security recipients an extra one-time payment next year of $250. Without the legislation, millions of seniors will see their Social Security checks shrink because – for the first time since 1975 – there will be no cost-of-living adjustment. Unless Congress passes the Emergency Senior Citizens Relief Act, Social Security monthly benefits would drop because the cost of Medicare prescription drug premiums, which are deducted from Social Security payments, are scheduled to increase. DeFazio said too many seniors are experiencing a decline in their living standards. “Failure to provide a cost-of-living increase for seniors could not come at a worse time. It would simply be unacceptable for seniors on fixed incomes to not receive the help they deserve to keep up with increased prices seniors pay for prescription drugs and medical care.” Sanders said millions of senior citizens are especially hard hit by the recession. “Many have seen their savings disappear, their pension funds severely decline and the value of their homes dramatically diminish – all while poverty among seniors has gone up, as has the number of seniors declaring bankruptcy. Seniors deserve a fair increase in benefits to keep up with these added costs and economic hardships.” Nearly 70 percent of beneficiaries depend on Social Security for at least half of their income, and Social Security is the sole source of income for 15 percent of recipients. To pay for the benefits boost, the legislation Sanders introduced in the Senate and DeFazio offered in the House of Representatives would apply the Social Security payroll tax on household incomes above $250,000 and below $359,000 in 2010. Under current law, only the first $106,800 of earned income is subject to the payroll tax. A worker earning $106,800 pays the same payroll tax as a CEO who makes millions of dollars a year. Their legislation begins to correct that inequity in 2010, while making sure that seniors receive a fair increase in benefits next year. No one earning $250,000 or less would see their taxes go up under the Sanders and DeFazio bills.
09.10.2009	September 10, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio tonight responded to President Obama’s address to the joint session of Congress on health care. “On Wednesday night, President Obama finally stepped up to the plate and outlined a path to Congress for a plan that would provide affordable health care for all Americans. A plan that would strengthen and ensure continued coverage for Americans who have health coverage today through their employers, self insurance, Medicare, or the VA and, a plan that would help small businesses, the uninsured and those who have lost their coverage to afford quality coverage. It is a plan to reign in abusive insurance industry practices and eliminate fraud and abuse in the health care system. It’s a challenge to Congress to re-set the debate; simplify and improve the existing legislation and deliver on a long delayed promise of affordable, quality health care coverage for all Americans. We’ve been waiting 100 years; we shouldn’t have to wait any longer.”
08.17.2009	DEFAZIO CHANGES LOCATIONS OF SEVERAL TOWN HALL MEETINGS- AUGUST 2009 DEFAZIO CHANGES LOCATIONS OF SEVERAL TOWN HALL MEETINGS WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has changed the location of five of the six town hall meetings next week to accommodate increased interest in these events. The only venue not changing is in Canyonville. This town hall meeting is still at Seven Feathers Convention Center, Room A, 146 Chief Miwaleta Lane. The new locations for the other town halls are listed below: Tuesday August 18th: 9:00 AM – 10:00 AM Junction City THM Oaklea Middle School Gymnasium 1515 Rose Street Junction City 5:00 PM – 6:15 PM Eugene THM **Please note, this meeting will start at 5:00 pm** Eugene Hilton and Conference Center 66 E. 6th Avenue Eugene 7:00 PM – 8:00 PM Springfield THM Springfield High School Auditorium 875 7th Street Springfield Wednesday August 19th: 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM Oakland THM Washington School Gymnasium (located directly behind Oakland City Hall) 637 NE Locust Street Oakland 5:15 PM – 6:15 PM Roseburg THM Umpqua Hall, Community Conference Building Douglas County Fair Grounds 2110 Frear Street Roseburg
08.14.2009	What is a Telephone Town Hall? A Telephone Town Hall is like an in-person Town Hall but more people can participate at the same time from the comfort of their own home or any location where you have access to a telephone or cell phone. You will hear directly from Congressman DeFazio and have the opportunity to personally ask him questions. Because of the number of people participating, Congressman DeFazio won’t be able to take everyone’s questions but he will answer as many as possible and address a wide range of topics about health care reform. We will also give you the opportunity to leave a voice mail with your concerns for the congressman. We need your phone number to make the connection for the Telephone Town Hall. The call is free and you can stay on the line or listen with a speaker phone to Congressman DeFazio and others participating in the Telephone Town Hall for as long as you like.We hope you will join us.
08.14.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has changed the location of the Tuesday August 18th Eugene town hall meeting to the Eugene Hilton and Convention Center. This facility can accommodate a larger number of people. The change is in response to overwhelming interest in the event. No other town hall meeting location on this day has been changed. At the town hall meetings, DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Tuesday August 18th: 5:15 – 6:15 PM Eugene Town Hall Meeting Eugene Hilton and Convention Center 66 East 6th Avenue Eugene
08.14.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has changed the location of the Wednesday August 19th Roseburg town hall meeting to the Douglas County Fair Grounds. This facility can accommodate a larger number of people. The change is in response to overwhelming interest in the event. No other town hall meeting location on this day has been changed. At the town hall meetings, DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday August 19th: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Roseburg Town Hall Meeting Umpqua Hall Community Conference Building Douglas County Fair Grounds 2110 Frear Street Roseburg
08.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has changed the location of the Thursday August 13th North Bend town hall meeting to the North Bend Community Center. This facility can accommodate a larger number of people. The change is in response to overwhelming interest in the event. The location of no other town hall meetings on this day has been changed. . At the town hall meetings, DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. . Thursday August 13th . North Bend 5:15 - 6:15 PM North Bend Community Center 2222 Broadway North Bend
08.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be on the coast Thursday August 13th to hold four town hall meetings and present the Bronze Star for Valor to Radioman Second Class Michael Harris, a veteran of the Vietnam war. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. At the town hall meetings, DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Thursday August 13th: Brookings Town Hall Meeting 10:00 –11:00 AM Chetco Activity Center 550 Chetco Lane . Gold Beach Town Hall Meeting 12:00 – 1:00 PM City Council Chambers Gold Beach City Hall 29592 Ellensberg Avenue . Port Orford Town Hall Meeting 2:00 – 3:00 PM City Council Chambers Port Orford City Hall . North Bend Town Hall Meeting 5:15 – 6:15 PM City Council Chambers North Bend City Hall 835 California Avenue North Bend . DeFazio to present Bronze Star for Valor to Michael Harris 6:30 – 7:00 PM USCG Air Station 2000 Connecticut Avenue North Bend
08.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-- U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be in Douglas County Wednesday, August 19th to hold three town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. At the town hall meetings, DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday August 19th: . Oakland 10:00 - 11:00 AM City Council Chambers Oakland CIty Hall 637 NE Locust Street . Canyonville 2:00 - 3:00 PM Seven Feathers Convention Center Room A 146 Chief Miwaleta Lane . Roseburg 5:15 - 6:15 PM Ford Community Meeting Room Douglas County Library 1409 NE Diamond Lake Boulevard
08.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-- U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will hold a town hall meeting in Drain on Wednesday, August 12th. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday August 12th: Drain Wednesday, August 12 12:00 - 1:00 PM Drain Civic Center 205 West A Street
08.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will hold a town hall meeting in Cottage Grove on Wednesday, August 12th. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday August 12th: Cottage GroveWednesday, August 129:30 – 10:30 AMShepherd RoomCottage Grove Community Center 700 Gibbs Avenue
08.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will be in Josephine on Wednesday, August 12th to hold two town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, transportation legislation and health care reform, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday August 12th: Grants Pass Wednesday, August 12 5:15 - 6:15 PM Anne G Basker Auditorium 604 NW Sixth Street Cave Junction Wednesday, August 12 7:00 - 8:00 PM City Council Chambers Cave Junction City Hall 222 W Lister Street
07.15.2009	July 15, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) this week secured critical funding to improve services and advocacy for abused and neglected children in Douglas County. The $300,000 will go towards a program called Kids in Common. The funding was approved as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed out of subcommittee today. “A perfect storm of high unemployment and increased substance abuse, both triggers for child abuse, combined with slashed funding for social services has resulted in a failure to meet the needs of children at risk in Douglas County,” DeFazio said. “I was pleased to secure funding for this critical program which will help the most vulnerable of Oregonians.” Childhood poverty rates are on an upward trend, having increased 14% in 2007 and averaging 50% higher than the rest of Oregon. Unemployment in Douglas County is almost 20% and rising. Both are contributing factors to child abuse. The county is also a designated HIDTA (high intensity drug traffic area), and child abuse statistics historically have risen with increases in drug usage. This is combined with the fact that Oregon’s Child Welfare program failed a federal review in 2001 and 2007. The poor rating was attributed to the lack of frequent and meaningful contact between DHS staff and their clients: children, parents or foster parents. Current caseworker caseloads average 24-31 children, compared with maximum effective caseloads of 12-15 recommended by the Child Welfare League of America. Agencies addressing child abuse have rapidly growing waiting lists of children with immediate, documented needs for advocacy, therapy, respite care and other resources that strive to provide a safety net against abuse. Kids in Common trains and supervises community volunteer advocates to speak for the best interests of abused children in the court system. Advocates expedite a child’s process through the court and child welfare system and strive to assure their placement in a safe and permanent home. Kids in Common also provides services to assess and treat trauma to alleged child abuse victims and their families in a child friendly location. This contributes to the well-being of the child and starts the healing process in a positive environment. They also provide counseling services to mothers who have often experienced abuse in their past. Finally, the organization offers support, education and services to families experiencing high stress to prevent child abuse. This is particularly important during our current economic crisis where many families are experiencing elevated levels of stress. The Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be approved by the full House Appropriations Committee.
07.15.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) yesterday secured critical funding to update Corvallis bus systems. The $400,000 will be used to replace three buses that are functionally obsolete. The funding was approved as part of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed out of subcommittee last night. “With rising gas prices and increasing road congestion, we are literally loving our public transportation systems to death. Sadly, transit is generally badly underfunded, making investments of this kind vital to meeting the public demand. I am pleased people will be able to continue to utilize this valuable public asset,” DeFazio said. The money will go toward buying three new handicapped accessible biodiesel buses in order to retire buses which have outlasted their life expectancy. Replacing these old buses will increase service reliability and reduce the cost of maintenance of the bus fleet. This means funds can instead be used to provide expanded transit services. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be approved by the full House Appropriations Committee.
07.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) secured $500,000 for Mobility International, USA (MIUSA). Mobility International USA (MIUSA) is a national non-profit organization whose mission is to empower people with disabilities around the world. The funding was approved as part of the State, Foreign Opportunities Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed out of subcommittee late last week. “Mobility international USA is a highly respected international organization dedicated to empowering and creating more opportunities for people with disabilities,” DeFazio said. “MIUSA is a powerful resource for change and I was pleased to be able to secure funding so they can continue their work.” There are currently 60 million people living in the United States with disabilities. Often these people’s lives are limited by their disability. MIUSA takes an active role in trying to change this. The MIUSA Clearinghouse on Disability and Exchange specifically teaches people, both with and without disabilities, leadership skills through international exchanges. The mission is to break down the barriers that limit people with disabilities and create more inclusive and civil societies. The State, Foreign Opportunities Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be approved by the full House Appropriations Committee.
07.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) this week secured critical funding to improve services and advocacy for abused and neglected children in Douglas County. The $300,000 will go towards a program called Kids in Common. The funding was approved as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed out of subcommittee today. “A perfect storm of high unemployment and increased substance abuse, both triggers for child abuse, combined with slashed funding for social services has resulted in a failure to meet the needs of children at risk in Douglas County,” DeFazio said. “I was pleased to secure funding for this critical program which will help the most vulnerable of Oregonians.” Childhood poverty rates are on an upward trend, having increased 14% in 2007 and averaging 50% higher than the rest of Oregon. Unemployment in Douglas County is almost 20% and rising. Both are contributing factors to child abuse. The county is also a designated HIDTA (high intensity drug traffic area), and child abuse statistics historically have risen with increases in drug usage. This is combined with the fact that Oregon’s Child Welfare program failed a federal review in 2001 and 2007. The poor rating was attributed to the lack of frequent and meaningful contact between DHS staff and their clients: children, parents or foster parents. Current caseworker caseloads average 24-31 children, compared with maximum effective caseloads of 12-15 recommended by the Child Welfare League of America. Agencies addressing child abuse have rapidly growing waiting lists of children with immediate, documented needs for advocacy, therapy, respite care and other resources that strive to provide a safety net against abuse. Kids in Common trains and supervises community volunteer advocates to speak for the best interests of abused children in the court system. Advocates expedite a child’s process through the court and child welfare system and strive to assure their placement in a safe and permanent home. Kids in Common also provides services to assess and treat trauma to alleged child abuse victims and their families in a child friendly location. This contributes to the well-being of the child and starts the healing process in a positive environment. They also provide counseling services to mothers who have often experienced abuse in their past. Finally, the organization offers support, education and services to families experiencing high stress to prevent child abuse. This is particularly important during our current economic crisis where many families are experiencing elevated levels of stress. The Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be approved by the full House Appropriations Committee.
07.13.2009	July 13, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) this week secured $400,000 to help expand the nursing program at Lane Community College (LCC). The funding was approved as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed out of subcommittee today. “Our nation is currently facing both record unemployment and a nursing shortage. Training more individuals to be nurses is a win-win. Nurses are integral to our healthcare system and it is a well paying and stable job. I am pleased I was able to secure this critical funding which will allow for the expansion of the L.C.C. nursing program,” DeFazio said. Every year LCC is forced to turn qualified students away despite the national shortage of nurses due to lack of space. This funding will allow LCC to build a simulation laboratory which is critical in increasing Lane’s capacity to train more nurses. This expansion will allow more Oregonians to gain training so that they can secure employment in an expanding and well paying field. The Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be approved by the full House Appropriations Committee.
06.27.2009	June 26, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today voted against H.R.2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act. The legislation will the subject American carbon emissions to an unregulated market as part of an attempt to stop global warming. Unfortunately, the measure passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 219 to 212. “Here we go again. Just a few short months ago, the world economy stood at the brink of total disaster because of market manipulation and the lack of regulation in the financial sector. Now we are constructing a whole new speculative market in carbon allowances and offset trading while our economy is still struggling to recover from the last economic collapse. I voted against this bill because a deregulated market is not the way to respond to one of the most important and pressing challenges of our time, global warming,” DeFazio said. “Furthermore, speculation in the carbon market will unnecessarily drive up energy costs in unpredictable ways. And, by best estimates a cap and trade system will only produce modest reductions in our carbon emissions over the next century.” The cap and trade system included in the energy bill is an unregulated market based system, susceptible to gaming by Wall Street. A cap and trade system sets pollution limits (the “cap”) and doles out allowances that can be bought and sold to meet the targets (the “trade”). Carbon credits can be sold as “futures contract” meaning, the carbon credit is sold at a certain price, on a specified date. This is a form of “derivative.” We can look forward to carbon offset derivatives futures tranched into collateralized debt obligation insured by credit default swaps mimicking the recent mortgage trading by AIG and others. Furthermore, the bill includes a provision for “offsets.” Offsets allow polluters to forego any meaningful change in behavior in the U.S. by investing in projects in developing countries. Most studies show offsets are dubious and difficult to verify. For example, a report by David Victor, the head of Stanford University's Energy and Sustainable Development Program, found that "between a third and two-thirds" of offsets used in the European cap-and-trade market do not represent actual emissions cuts. In fact, in 2005-2007 Europe emitted more carbon and added $60 billion in costs by trading carbon. Finally, cap-and-trade doesn’t go far enough to protect consumers against rising energy costs. If the bill had at least auctioned allowances, a U.S. cap-and-trade market could have raised $846 billion by 2020. We could have used this revenue to protect consumers, invest in clean energy technology, and move toward energy independence. Instead, the allowances in a U.S. cap-and-trade will be given away to polluters for free. DeFazio proposed an amendment to fix this short fall, as well as other failing in the bill but, unfortunately they were left out of the legislation. DeFazio instead favors a regulatory approach similar to the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act. Under DeFazio’s plan, the US would set a strong cap, inventory pollution sources, issue permits, and fine polluters who don’t meet their targets. The Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act are two of the most successful environmental laws in history. In fact, under court order, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has begun the process to regulate green house gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Remarkably, the Markey-Waxman bill specifically prohibits the EPA from going forward with those regulations. Finally, it is essential to evaluate any legislative proposal by its economic effects on the Pacific Northwest. Unfortunately, this bill disadvantages the Pacific Northwest and unfairly punishes our region’s low carbon emissions footprint. The Pacific Northwest is blessed with low cost zero emission hydroelectric generation. To my dismay, a provision was added just days before the vote that would redirect the carbon allocations from the Pacific Northwest to the dirty coal burning Midwest states. “A regulatory program would not require Congressional approval meaning we would begin to reduce emissions immediately, no Wall Street speculators and hedgers, no carbon market or new derivatives market, no giveaways to polluters, no complex and unverifiable ‘international offsets,’ and no uncertainty about meaningful emission reductions,” DeFazio said. “I am deeply saddened that this approach was not considered and instead, the House has voted to create the next financial instrument of mass destruction, a trillion dollar carbon trading bubble for Wall Street.”
06.26.2009	Click here to listen Thanks, it's great to be back in Oregon and back at the Portland City Club. There are people in this room who may not be old enough to remember that there was a time in America when our rivers caught fire. The Cuyahoga River caught fire in 1969; others may not remember that the Willamette River was an open sewer in the late 1960s. In response, Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972. The Clean Water Act established a regulatory scheme to prohibit unauthorized discharges of pollution into our waterways. The approach was very straightforward: we went out and inventoried the pollution, we gave polluters targets, monitored them, and if polluters didn't meet those targets, we fined the heck out of them. It worked. In fact, it's one of the most successful environmental programs in the history of the United States. We cleaned up our rivers, streams, and waterways with extraordinary success and without imposing unreasonable costs on business and industry. There are certainly new challenges with clean water, but the Clean Water Act is alive and well and evolving now to deal with non-point source pollution threats and concerns. So, it's still a very viable act. But, today, we face the greatest environmental challenge of all time. It's a problem that is global in nature but with the potential for dire and unpredictable regional and local impacts: climate change. Since the beginning of the industrial era, the U.S. has emitted far more greenhouse gases than any other country. Today, we are surpassed by only China. But during the eight dark years under the Bush administration, we had a government that refused to acknowledge there was a problem with climate change and an administration that certainly didn't take any leadership in resolving this issue. Well, all that changed with the election of Barack Obama. Now we are finally confronting the problem. Just this week the Obama administration released a report in collaboration with "The United States Global Change Research Program," a joint scientific venture of 13 federal agencies and the White House, warning that the U.S. will not be able to stop some climatic changes even with immediate and dramatic action. This is a very real challenge. I'm not here to give Al Gore's "Inconvenient Truth" presentation. But because of my outspoken opposition to a cap-and-trade, there has been some confusion about my views on global warming. I want to make it clear that I am now, and have been for a number of years, convinced by the science that global warming is happening, human activity is substantially responsible for rising temperatures, and the United States of America must take immediate and effective action and lead the world in dealing with this problem. Basically, we've got three options: * The Clean Water Act model -- cap, regulate, reduce, monitor; * A carbon tax; and * A market-based, cap-and-trade system as planned in the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES) or the "Waxman Bill." I'm going to spend a good deal of time talking about cap-and-trade and then discuss what I think is a more viable alternative. You had a brief discussion here of how cap-and-trade works. The government sets a cap on greenhouse gas emissions,; then the government would give participants "allowances" to pollute up to the established cap. Participants may buy, sell, and trade these allowances in the market to meet their emission targets. In theory, emissions will drop as we issue fewer allowances. There is also another component of a cap-and-trade that is less known called "offsets." Offsets are really at the crux of my most dire concerns about where a cap-and-trade would lead the U.S. and where it would lead the world. There is already documentation of widespread abuse of offset projects approved under something the Kyoto Protocol established, which Europe is using, and which the United States would mimic. It's called the Clean Development Mechanism. I will digress for a moment here. Twelve years ago I came to the City Club and gave a speech against something that was very current, everyone was really excited about, and that the NRDC, Wall Street, and big business all thought was the way to solve major problems in this country. It was called energy deregulation. I came here as one of the very few in the House of Representatives to vote against Ed Markey's proposal to deregulate energy and predicted what a disaster it would be. I wish I had been wrong. It turned out to be an extraordinary disaster. In just two years under deregulation, electricity rates in California jumped from $30 per MWH average to $300 per MWH average, and the state had spikes as high as $1,900 per MWH. There was a lot of money to be made in a deregulated electricity market- and ENRON made a lot of money manipulating and gaming that market. ENRON is now gone, but their legacy - and the legacy of deregulation - lives on. We have paid more than $1 billion in the Pacific Northwest for our power unnecessarily. That money could have been better spent had it not been for the inflated contracts that we entered into and that couldn't be rolled back. Now, Ed Markey, the father of energy deregulation, and Henry Waxman, have taken a page from the ENRON playbook. That page is cap and trade. As far as anyone can tell, the first major and most persistent proponent of cap-and-trade was ENRON. They spent millions of dollars and hundreds of hours lobbying the Clinton Administration in the 1990's for a market-based approach to deal with carbon emissions. Enron executive John Palmisano wrote in a private memo in 1997 that stated the Kyoto Protocol treaty and a cap-and-trade system would be "good for Enron stock." The memo went on to predict that an under-regulated market "would do more to promote Enron's business than would almost any other regulatory initiative outside of restructuring, [that is deregulating,] the energy and natural gas industries in Europe and the United States." Enron is gone; but the excitement lives on on Wall Street. Here's a quote from Chris Leeds, head of emissions trading at Merrill Lynch, "Carbon could become one of the fasting-growing markets ever, with volumes comparable to credit derivatives inside of a decade." Credit derivatives? Anyone remember that? This is a quote from Simon Glossop, founder of CF, a hedge fund designed to track and make money off the price movements in carbon, "Carbon has now become an [investible] asset class in its own right instead of a compliance tool... The volatility around the market's policy risk is actually good for us from an investor point of view, so we encourage it."[1] Of course it's not good for us as consumers or for those who are truly concerned about carbon emissions reductions. Europe implemented a cap-and-trade system in 2005. The downturn in the economy has changed things a little but for the first two years Europe emitted more carbon and added $60 billion in costs trading carbon. Let me say that again, Europe emitted more carbon and spent $60 billion under a cap-and-trade. We don't have emission figures for last year, but initial estimates show emissions may be down a little. But that's not due to cap-and-trade, it's more likely due to the tanked economy. US emissions were also down for last year about 2.8 percent - the biggest drop in 30 years in the United States. Of course we haven't adopted any changes in policy. It's just merely because plants have been shut down, people are travelling less, and the global economy is in recession. Europe has a deregulated carbon market. In other words, anyone can buy, sell, and trade carbon allowances including speculators, hedgers, and sovereign wealth funds. That's why Wall Street is so excited about this cap-and-trade proposal. The Markey-Waxman Bill being considered by Congress would create a thinly regulated carbon market. But we don't exactly have a good track record of regulating derivatives and other exotic financial instruments in this country. The President has proposed something that hopefully will be adopted, it should be stronger, but it will start to put a stop to this type of gaming in energy markets. Europe also allows polluters to use offsets. As I mentioned earlier, offsets allow polluters to forego any meaningful change in behavior by investing in projects in developing countries. There are some good offsets out there that are legitimate. But most studies show offsets are dubious and difficult to verify. For example, a report by David Victor, the head of Stanford University's Energy and Sustainable Development Program, found that "between a third and two-thirds" of offsets used in the European cap-and-trade do not represent actual emissions cuts. Offsets are a little abstract, so let me give you some examples. Every year, China and India refrigerant gas manufacturers produce a gas called HCFC-22. The production of HCFC-22 gas produces HFC-23 gas, which is an unbelievably horrible greenhouse gas; it is 12,000 times more virulent than regular carbon dioxide. In the U.S., Europe, and Japan - or anywhere else where refrigerant gas is produced - our law requires that the byproduct gas HFC-23 be destroyed during the manufacturing process. Well, China and India don't do that. They collect the gas and pipe it to another plant where the gas is destroyed for a profit. Here's how it works: Deutsch Bank enters into an agreement with Chinese and Indian companies who are storing this really bad greenhouse gas, which costs about $1 a ton to dispose of. Deutsche Bank pays $8 a ton to buy the offset generated by the destruction of the HFC-23 gas, giving the Chinese and Indian companies a $7 profit margin per metric ton. Deutsch Bank then sells the offsets to European companies that don't want to cut their emissions for $20 a ton. It's estimated that if all the Chinese and Indian companies were to install the proper equipment to destroy the gas during the production process, it would cost about $157 million. But last year Chinese and Indian companies got paid $7.3 billion to destroy the toxic gas. Meanwhile, European companies don't have to meet their emission caps because they bought the destroyed gas in Asia. There's no net decrease in carbon. That's why emissions are up in Europe. I'll give you one more example because a lot of environmental groups believe this is how we're going to save the rainforests. They expect that U.S. companies will go down and invest in offsets to save the Amazon rainforest in Brazil. But that may not be the most profitable thing going on down there. Brazil has some of the strongest environmental laws in the world. But these laws have not prevented illegal logging and the rapid deforestation of the rainforest. Much of the continued illegal logging and deforestation is attributable to Brazil's drive towards industrialized agriculture. There's a company called Plantar that owns about 57,000 acres of rainforest in Brazil. They clear cut it - having the usual catastrophic effects on the flora and fauna and neighboring people. They then plant a monoculture of eucalyptus trees. Nearby there is a low-grade iron-ore smelting plant which uses coal. Plantar receives credits for destroying the rainforest and planting eucalyptus trees which will be used to produce charcoal to run the iron smelter. An offset is created because the eucalyptus trees were used instead of coal. I would argue that we've just lost another 57,000 acres of rainforest and these people are not providing a net-benefit or helping reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I'm very skeptical that this will somehow be the salvation of the rainforests. In the U.S., the Waxman Bill would allow U.S. polluters to use up to 2 billion metric tons of offsets - that's about 1/3 of what we emit - and they can do it in offsets. A recent report by the Congressional Budget Office predicts U.S. polluters will use offsets to meet up to 61% of emission targets. So if the offsets aren't real, they don't reduce carbon emissions in the U.S., and in fact add costs to consumers, why would we want to incorporate them into a cap-and-trade system? Do offsets help us achieve our objective of reducing emissions? No. There's one think tank, called the Breakthrough Institute that has completed an analysis of the Congressional Budget Office report. In the report, they found that there's another unique feature of Markey-Waxman: we're going to give away allowances to polluters for free. President Obama originally said all allowances should be auctioned. The Europeans said they made a big mistake by giving them away and should have auctioned them. But in order to get agreement to move the bill forward, the Waxman Bill had to water things down by giving polluters allowances for free. They came up with another great idea: you don't have to use allowances right away; in fact, you can keep them forever. This allows polluters to go overseas and buy an offset when allowances are expensive at home. It also allows polluters to bank allowances so when the price of offsets overseas goes up, they can draw on their banked allowances to keep polluting. Breakthrough Institute estimates that a combination of the bankable allowances and the offsets could result in a total reduction of a mere one-half of one percent in the U.S. by 2020 in capped industries. You might quibble with their analysis, but you can see how this can be gamed and that's very much a problem. Then there's the potential problem with the carbon bubble itself. In Europe, they've already developed carbon futures, carbon offset futures, carbon derivatives, and now they are slicing and dicing them into special investment vehicles like tranches of carbon. Traders call these complex financial tools "gourmet carbon" and "junk carbon." Does any of this sound familiar? Having something to do with mortgages in the U.S.? But Wall Street is going to do this with carbon and they think it's going to be an even bigger market than the mortgage market was here in the United States of America. In the back of the room I've got a copy of a report by Friends of the Earth, a well regarded environmental group, except by some of their colleagues right now, who put out a report called "Subprime Carbon?" It makes very interesting reading. I recommend it to you; you can pick up a copy on the way out, or access it from my website. Ok, what's my alternative? You shouldn't complain about something unless you've got an alternative. It's kind of out of fashion. One more digression: the Obama Administration has started to regulate carbon dioxide. There was a Supreme Court decision in 2007 validating the EPA's authority to regulate carbon dioxide under the Clean Air Act. However, the Bush administration wouldn't implement it. Under the Obama Administration, the EPA has filed a notice that they are going to regulate carbon emissions because of the pollutant's impact on public health. This ruling establishes the beginning of a regulatory process. The Waxman Bill would prohibit - prohibit - the EPA from going forward with its regulatory approach. Instead, we are being asked to put all our eggs into the market-based approach basket. But here's the irony: if you're going to have a market-based approach you first have to establish a regulatory system. For a cap-and-trade to be viable the government will have to establish a cap, then government will inventory our pollution sources; next government regulators would provide all polluters with individual caps; Finally, a monitoring mechanism must be created. Next, a cap-and-trade superimposes a market-based system on top of the regulatory structure. Proponents of the bill claim the market will make the system more efficient, more effective or as the Oregonian editorialized, less expensive. How is it less expensive? A regulatory program provide certainty and predictability where potential investors can look out 20 years and say, I can make an investment because the emission targets are clear and the price of allowances is stable. By comparison, a market-based cap-and-trade system brings volatility and uncertainty to reducing emissions. For example, in Europe the price of carbon allowances has fluctuated between $30 a ton to $1 a ton - and it's currently trading at somewhere around $8 a ton. If you invested in technology last year at $15 a ton, you're probably broke and out of business. If you're a utility, and you want to plan for the future, you've got no certainty because it impossible to predict what's going to happen in a volatile carbon market. I recently met with the head of one of America's largest utilities who works for Warren Buffet at Mid-America. He told me "give me a cap, give me a plan. I might build nukes and you may not like it, but I'll meet that demand; I'll meet that schedule." But he said, "Don't trade." Warren Buffet has been one of the leading and lone voices opposing derivatives and other bizarre financial instruments. He warned Wall Street that they had no idea what they'd created. Mr. Buffet predicted that there would be no certainty for anyone and the potential for an unbelievable bubble and collapse in the future would be enormous. Mr. Buffet was right. I want to get back to my alternative proposal. I'm a cosponsor of a bill written by Jim McDermott from Washington state which is based on the Clean Water Act. Under the McDermott approach the government would inventory all sources of greenhouse gas pollution, we'd set a cap; we'd give everyone a schedule to reduce; we'd make them pay for their permit (which ought to raise a fair amount of money); and, finally, if polluters don't meet the schedule - just like under the Clean Water Act -we'd fine the heck out of them. The Clean Water Act levies serious fines - up to $50,000 a day. That's a pretty good stick. Most people tend to comply to avoid that. Some people say a regulatory program is way too complicated. I find this argument amusing. Under the Clean Water Act the government already regulates 500,000 sources -- 50,000 of them are major sources, the others are more miner. Under the Clean Air Act, the government already regulates 250 million sources: 84,000 of them are major industries, and 2,000 power plants. By comparison the Waxman Bill would cover 7,400 entities. Since we are already regulating millions of point sources under existing environmental laws, it's simply not a viable argument to say that regulating the 7,400 major U.S. greenhouse gas polluters is preventatively complex or burdensome. I prefer the McDermott regulatory approach because of its certainty. Under this alternative we will reduce emissions here in the United States of America; we won't be engaged in buying phony offsets offshore; and we won't create new exotic financial vehicles like "carbon default swaps" and "carbon tranches." Unfortunately, we face a powerful, unholy alliance of Wall Street, big business and some major environmental groups who are lobbying for a "market-based" approach at all costs. Does that sound familiar? It should: it's the same alliance that supported energy deregulation twelve years ago. They were wrong then, and they're wrong now and this time it could be much more catastrophic for our economy. Even if this bill passes, it wouldn't be implemented until 2012. I don't think we should wait. And unfortunately, all our energy is being diverted into this debate over cap-and-trade instead of real taking steps we can - and should - take to make an actual difference. The U.S. as a country should adopt the same renewable portfolio standards that we have here in Oregon. They're trading away real gains for the American people -- the Waxman Bill mandates a renewable portfolio standard in this bill -- but in order to get votes, they keep compromising on the standard. We'll be lucky if we end up with 17, 16, or 15 percent nationally. We have 25 percent here in Oregon. The country could get there. That would spur a huge growth in green energy and green jobs, make us less dependent on foreign oil, and do something real about our carbon footprint. That's one thing we could do. Another thing we could do, now that we own some of the auto companies, is to require a really tough CAFE standard. We could also have a major national program to invest in renewable energy, clean technologies, more efficient bio-fuels. I'm not talking about ethanol, which I think is a loser, but we need to look to the next generation of bio-diesel fuels that could have net energy gains and burn much cleaner. Finally, I'm spending most of my time in Congress to deliver a 21st century transportation plan. More than one-third of our carbon emissions are from mobile sources, so I want to do is get the American people out of congestion and traffic snarls. We waste 4 billion gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel by people sitting in traffic. If we could eliminate one-half of that, it would be an incredible contribution to reducing our greenhouse gases. It is estimated added fuel costs due to traffic congestion costs Americans and businesses $80 billion each year. Our road surfaces are rated very poorly. We have 160,000 bridges that are either structurally obsolete or they are load limited and have to be replaced on the national system. So we have huge legacy costs and maintenance needs The City of Chicago alone has $6 billion in deferred maintenance on their transit system. Some of their trains have to run at two miles an hour over tracks that are propped up with two-by-fours. I'm glad they're using wood products but it's probably not great, especially if we're going to host the Olympics there. We need to be making these investments. We need a transformative transportation plan, one that puts us on a path to reducing emissions, reducing congestions, gives people more transit options, more fuel efficient options, and incorporates the kind of planning we've done here in Oregon into a national model. We can do all those things and all those things are embodied in the bill that I've been working on with Chairman Oberstar now for two and a half years. I hope to pass that bill out of my subcommittee next Wednesday, and begin to contribute something very real to the quality of life of all Americans and a real contribution toward lowering our carbon footprint. And with that, thank you very much and I would be happy to take questions.
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured critical funding for dredging and maintenance at several ports along the south coast of Oregon. The funding was approved as part of the Energy and Water Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed out of subcommittee today. “Navigable channels are the economic lifeline of our small coastal communities, and the key to safe navigation on the Oregon coast,” DeFazio said. “This funding is critical to these coastal communities and the fishing and recreational industries.” Without regular removal of sand and silt through dredging, the shallow channels which make up the entrances to ports swiftly deteriorate and become dangerous, even impossible, to navigate. Impassable channels leave coastal communities without the commercial shipping, fishing, recreational boating and even Coast Guard operations that their economic livelihoods depend upon. Congressman DeFazio was able to secure the following funding for ports in Southern Oregon: Port of Bandon will receive $578,000 Port of Brookings Harbor will receive $909,000 Port of Coos Bay will receive $5,091,000 Port of Gold Beach will receive $978,000 Port of Port Orford will receive $38,000 Port of Siuslaw will receive $817,000 Port of Umpqua will receive $1,174,000 The Energy and Water Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010 must now be approved by the full House Appropriations Committee.
06.26.2009	June 26, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today released a proposed transaction tax on crude oil securities to pay for the deficiency in the Highway Trust Fund and to pay for the Surface Transportation Authorization Act of 2009. “A transaction tax on crude oil securities will close the gap in funding a twenty-first century transportation system while lowering the price of oil. This is a win/win,” DeFazio said. “If we put off this transportation authorization we will push off needed reform. Every day we wait people will sit in traffic instead of spending time with their families, every day people are not as safe as they could be because of our crumbling infrastructure, every day our economy suffers when our products sit in traffic jams. Worst of all, every day we wait we continue to be more locked into inadequate funding and the failed policies of the Bush Administration. My proposal will not cost consumers one cent but will substantially increase our investment in our transportation infrastructure so we can move beyond the broken policies of the past toward a safer, cleaner more efficient transportation system for the 21st century.” The Surface Transportation Authorization Act of 2009 requires $450 billion in funding over 6 years. Because of existing funding mechanisms through the Highway Trust Fund, there is a $140 billion funding gap. A transaction tax on crude oil securities would raise more than $190 billion over 6 years, more than enough to fill the gap. The proposed transaction tax on crude oil is 0.02% on futures contracts (a contract to buy crude oil at a previously set price on a future date) and 0.5% on the option for a futures contract(the premium paid to have the option to buy a futures contract). Taxing these derivatives of crude oil will reduce the price and volatility of the market. It is the only revenue source that lowers the price of oil while raising revenue for the Highway Trust Fund. The tax is simple; it imposes a small burden that penalizes short-term traders for speculating on the price of oil. The CFTC distinguishes between end users and legitimate hedgers, like airlines and railroads, and short-term speculators. This proposal would rebate all transaction taxes paid by legitimate hedgers. Since the tax is on speculation only, it deters speculation and undermines much of the crude oil price bubble. This tax will find broad support and is well documented in economic scholarly papers. In fact, NEC Chairman Larry Summers wrote a paper in 1989 in strong support of financial transaction taxes. It will likely find support from large consumers of oil, including airlines, trucking companies, and railroads, the marketers and retailers of oil and gasoline, and small oil producers.
06.19.2009	June 18, 2009 Washington - Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and Rep. Pete Stark’s legislation, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, was included in the discussion draft of the House health care reform bill released today. DeFazio and Stark introduced similar legislation in the 110th congress. The measure would require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to publicly report any gifts provided to doctors in connection with their marketing activities. This information, under DeFazio and Stark’s language would be made widely available to the public. This measure will provide much needed transparency into the increasingly corrosive relationship between the pharmaceutical companies and American physicians. “Americans are being gouged by pharmaceutical companies that spend more on marketing than they do on research and development,” DeFazio said. “They enjoy generous subsidies from the government, but have no accountability when it comes to the billions of dollars they spend promoting high priced drugs. I am glad this legislation, which would shine a light on the marketing practices of drug companies and give patients the information they need to make an informed decision about their healthcare, was included in the House health care reform bill.” Pharmaceutical companies spend over $19 billion dollars a year in direct marketing to physicians. This marketing comes in the form of lavish trips, meals, speaking fees, and honorarium. Over 94% of physicians admit to receiving these gifts every year with many receiving payments in excess of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. A report in the Journal of the American Medical Association showed these gifts are influencing the clinical decisions of doctors. Recently, two of the largest drug companies in America were found to have been paying doctors hundreds of millions of dollars to prescribe their anemia medications that were recently found to be unsafe at commonly used doses. “If the billions of dollars drug companies spend taking doctors on trips to the Caribbean and to expensive dinners at the country’s finest restaurants are above-board, then the pharmaceutical industry should support my legislation,” DeFazio said. “This bill will keep the pharmaceutical industry honest.” It is expected that the House Committees on Energy and Commerce, Education and Labor and Ways and Means will mark up the health care reform bill in July.
06.15.2009	June 14, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) took steps today to reign in oil and gas prices and provide relief to American consumers by introducing the Energy Markets Manipulation Prevention Act. Oil recently reached an eight month high of $72 a barrel and the national average of a gallon of gasoline has gone from $1.64 a gallon late last year to more than $2.63 a gallon today. "The US needs to move quickly to a sustainable energy future, but until we get there we need to block price manipulation. Its about time the federal government took actions to defend the American consumer, rather than subsidize big oil," DeFazio said. "The legislation I introduced today is a giant step in the right direction." The run-up in oil and gas prices is not a result of the fundamental concept of supply and demand, but is largely driven by excessive speculation. According to data from the Energy Information Administration, demand for petroleum products in the United States is lower today than it was 10 years ago and supply is higher today than it was in 1982. But, prices are going up, not down as a result of speculation. The Energy Markets Manipulation Prevention Act would require the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to use its emergency authority to prevent the manipulation of oil prices and empower this Commission with new authority to prohibit excessive speculation in the oil markets. Last July, the House of Representatives passed similar legislation by a vote of 402-19, but unfortunately the bill did not become law. Unfortunately, the Senate did not act on the legislation. Identical legislation is being introduced in the Senate by Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT).
06.15.2009	June 24, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured critical funding for several agricultural promotion programs at Oregon State University. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured critical funding for several agricultural promotion programs at Oregon State University. A program to enhance Oregon’s ability to compete in the organic products market will receive $140,000. Oregon is a long time leader in the organic products industry which has become an integral part of the state’s economy. The demand for organic products has expanded over the last several years. For instance, in 2006 organic products generated $76 million in Oregon. This funding will help Oregon farmers to transition their farms to organic production and improve the quality of organic production which will position Oregon well to continue as a leader in this rapidly growing industry. A program to sustain Oregon’s specialty crops, such as pears, will receive $244,000. Oregon has a high percentage of specialty crops which have recently struggled to compete in the global market because other countries are producing these crops more cheaply. This project will make Oregon products more competitive in the global market through marketing strategies and improve the long term viability of Oregon’s agricultural sector. Oregon State University will receive $475,000 for the Wood Utilization Research (WUR) project. Oregon is one of the world leaders in forestry and wood products manufacturing. In the past, the WUR program has saved Oregon’s forest industry millions of dollars and created new business opportunities through innovation. The funding will be used to build on the past successes of the WUR program and enhance Oregon’s competitiveness in the wood products market. "All three of these programs invest in innovation here at home in Oregon. This funding will produce jobs for Oregonians and help us to compete in an increasingly competitive global market," DeFazio said. "I'm pleased I was able to get funding for these key segments of Oregon’s economy and I look forward to the important work they will produce." The funding was included in the Agriculture Appropriations Act of 2010, which passed out of Subcommittee today. The measure now must be considered by the full House Appropriations Committee.
06.09.2009	June 8, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured $350,000 in critical funding for the Brookings Emergency Operating Center (EOC). The EOC will be utilized by city, county, state and non-profit organizations to coordinate responses to disaster emergencies affecting Curry County. "This vital project will provide state of the art disaster response to residents of Curry County," DeFazio said. "I am pleased to secure funding for such an important project to keep our citizens safe." "The addition of the EOC will complete our efforts to improve the disaster emergency response and coordination facilities in southern Curry County where a majority of Curry County residents reside," said City Manager Gary Milliman. "We are very appreciative of the efforts of Congressman DeFazio in championing this project." A City Council meeting room currently functions as an EOC when needed. However, this room has no communications equipment or systems to support the EOC function. The new EOC will be equipped with the latest communications equipment and systems which will enable local emergency managers to assess the severity of a disaster emergency, prioritize emergency response, and request assistance from outside sources in a more effective manner. The EOC will help south coast residents respond to natural disasters such as earthquakes, landslides, coastal erosion and tsunamis. The EOC will also be used as a training facility for local government employees and volunteers engaged in emergency response and disaster recovery. The facility will be located at the Brookings civic center, adjacent to the newly completed $900,000 state of the art emergency communications tower. The city-funded communications tower project included the installation of an emergency generator and other facilities to support the EOC. The funding was included in the House Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010, which passed out of Subcommittee today. The measure now must be considered by the full Appropriations Committee.
06.04.2009	June 3, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured $600,000 in critical funding for research at Oregon State University aimed at improving the health of salmon in the Klamath River salmon. This funding will help put fishermen, struggling due to recent closures of the salmon season, back to work. The fishing industry is vital to the coastal Oregon economy. The salmon season has been closed or significantly curtailed the past three years due to the continued decline in salmon returning to the Sacramento and Klamath Rivers, which typically make a significant contribution to the Oregon fishery. Approximately 3,000 licensed commercial salmon fishermen in Oregon and California depend directly on Klamath River Chinook Salmon production for income. Healthy fish runs also support the recreational fishery and the guides, motels and restaurants on the coast and in the Klamath basin. "This program is critical to restoring a healthy salmon population on the South Coast. Our fishing communities are suffering under recent closures," DeFazio said. "Without projects like this one, the closures of the salmon season will continue and Oregon, fishing communities will continue to suffer and we will loose an important asset to the state economy." The funding was included in the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act of 2010, which passed out of Subcommittee today. The measure now must be considered by the full Appropriations Committee.
06.04.2009	June 3, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured $500,000 in critical funding for the South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team (SCINT). The funds will be used to hire three detectives and one full time support staff member. The federal funding will help ensure this critical task force can continue to fight the manufacture and trafficking of methamphetamines. "SCINT has been vital in fighting the spread of meth epidemic on the Oregon Coast," DeFazio said. "I am pleased to secure funding for such an effective program which will help to keep our citizens safe." SCINT was formed in 1988 when it became clear that, with a far reaching methamphetamine problem taking hold on the Oregon coast, individual law enforcement departments were not able to effectively provide man power, money or equipment to fight the increasing drug epidemic. SCINT assured that each member department had highly trained and experienced investigators to work with and train member agency police officers, reducing the impact of drugs and drug related crimes in the region. Despite scant funding this past year, SCINT has been extremely effective in seizing drugs and illegal firearms. But, in order to continue their good work, they require more funds. The funding was included in the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act of 2010, which passed out of Subcommittee today. The measure now must be considered by the full Appropriations Committee.
06.04.2009	June 3, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today secured critical funding for vital public safety programs in Lane County. The City of Eugene will receive $150,000 to expand a regional command and simulation center for Lane County and the City of Eugene law enforcement and emergency response agencies. The project is needed to attain and maintain compliance with the National Incident Management System, enhance security at the county jail, and improve communication between agencies so they can efficiently and effectively respond to emergencies. Public safety agencies in Lane County have effectively shared an integrated system for the last 40 years and this funding will allow them to build on this success. Additionally, Lane County will receive $500,000 for an offender treatment and transition program. The project will create a treatment program for adult felony and misdemeanor offenders which will free up 48 jail beds. Violent crime and property crime have gone up in recent years in Lane County while other parts of Oregon are seeing a decrease in crime. This project will free up much needed jail beds, increasing the overall capacity of the jail and help keep criminals off the streets. "Public safety is the most basic function of government. In the last year, crime levels have gone up in Lane County, meaning that programs like these are more critical than ever. I am pleased to help fund these vital programs that will make our citizens safer," DeFazio said. " The funding was included in the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act of 2010, which passed out of Subcommittee today. The measure now must be considered by the full House Appropriations Committee.
05.15.2009	May 14, 2009 Washington, DC -- Peter DeFazio (OR-04) objected today to the counter productive demands the Administration has put on the American auto industry. By requiring General Motors and Chrysler to close dealerships and enabling them to outsource manufacturing, the Administration is casting aside a vital part of our economy in favor of high paying executive level jobs. This action will cost the middle class thousands of family wage jobs at a time when unemployment is on the rise. Earlier this week DeFazio sent a letter to Steve Rattner, the Obama Administration’s car czar, asking him to reconsider the Administration’s position to force thousands of dealerships to close. Chrysler has plans to close 789 dealerships around the country by June 9th, six of which are in Oregon and General Motors announced that they will not renew the franchise agreement on 1,100 dealerships when it expires at the end of September 2010. The letter stated "The premise of cutting dealerships appears to be based on lowering the dealership overhead via the efficiencies of bigger dealers and passing those savings onto the auto manufactures. These projected savings are highly speculative …. Squeezing more out of the dealership profits from new car sales will do little for the auto manufactures." In another example of how the domestic auto restructuring is counter productive to American workers, Chrysler announced that it will move engine production from the Kenosha Engine Plant in Wisconsin to Mexico. This outsourcing will export 800 American jobs to Mexico at a time when our unemployment is on the rise. "I object to the very idea that transferring our manufacturing base to Mexico is the best solution to Chrysler’s economic woes" said DeFazio. "We need a vibrant working class, not corporate shells with overpaid executives." "I remain hopeful that the Obama Administration will step back and reconsider these disastrous actions that will drive up unemployment and add to the challenges of pulling the U.S out of a recession," said DeFazio. "The Administration should reverse course, stop bailing out Wall Street, and start investing in the American worker." The full letter is below: May 13, 2009 Steve Rattner Counselor to the Secretary of the Treasury. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Mr. Rattner: I applaud you for accepting the challenge of helping domestic auto manufactures return to a profitable business structure. I believe the survival of auto manufactures is critical to our nation because we cannot continue to lose domestic manufacturing capability. As you well know, domestic auto manufactures have many obstacles to overcome before they can regain market share and restore profitably. One of the obstacles the Treasury Department has identified is the reduction of auto dealerships. Treasury has stated, "These underperforming dealers create a drag on the overall brand equity of GM and hurt the prospects of the many stronger dealers who could help GM drive incremental sales." I do not believe the facts support this conclusion. The premise of cutting dealerships appears to be based on lowering the dealership overhead via the efficiencies of bigger dealers and passing those savings onto the auto manufactures. These projected savings are highly speculative. Auto dealerships have already undergone a natural consolidation over many decades. Furthermore, dealership profits are primarily generated by servicing vehicles, and less so by new car sales. Squeezing more out of the dealership profits from new cars sales will do little for the auto manufactures. The downside of forcing greater dealership reductions must be weighed against the speculative benefits. U.S. auto dealers have invested $233.5 billion in their 19,000 independent dealerships, and these dealerships employ over 1 million people earning decent wages. The National Association of Auto Dealers estimates that slashing these dealerships will lead to 150,000 job loses, thereby contributing to another significant increase in the unemployment rate. Secondly, slashing dealerships may reduce car sales. Without a sales force pitching for the domestic auto industry, car sales will continue to slump. This sales force costs the auto manufactures nothing, but is their direct connection to the customer. Instead of forced reductions, the expanded dealership network should be allowed work the advantages it has. The former White House chief of staff Mack McLarty said it best with: "Remember, automotive dealers are automakers' only customers. Dealers buy cars and trucks from manufacturers; consumers buy from dealers, who spend billions annually advertising the vehicles they sell, plus more than $300 million to train sales personnel -- all at no cost to the automakers … without a strategic plan to ensure that the remaining dealerships can thrive, a rapid "rationalization" could wipe out dealers and further weaken manufacturers, with negative repercussions throughout the economy, especially in the Midwest." I represent rural communities and small-sized cities. I am pleased that GM claims they are not targeting rural dealership and see them as an advantage. GM states "In small town markets, GM intends to preserve its historic and competitive strength." This is welcome news. I ask that you encourage Chrysler to also protect its rural dealerships. A broad network of auto dealerships for both GM and Chrysler are an asset and necessity, rather than a burden on the domestic auto manufacturers. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
05.15.2009	May 14, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio’s (D-Ore.) legislation, H.R. 2364, was included today in H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act which was introduced by Rep. Henry Waxman, Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. DeFazio’s provision would allow biomass recovered from federal lands to qualify for the renewable electricity standard. H.R. 2454 is expected to be marked up in committee next week, and considered by the full House of Representatives in June. Biomass is material such as slash, small diameter trees, brush, and chips. It also includes other organic material from preventative treatments on federal forests to reduce hazardous fuels, to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or to restore ecosystem health. Biomass can be converted into alternative fuels and electricity. "I have been working for three years to get my colleagues and the Administration to recognize the beneficial role the woody debris from thinning and fuel reduction projects on Federal lands could play in creating sustainable energy. I have finally succeeded. The major energy legislation introduced today recognizes, for the first time, the role woody biomass from federal lands can play in creating sustainable energy," DeFazio said. "This provision will improve the health of our forests, create much needed jobs in rural areas and create clean, sustainable energy." DeFazio introduced his legislation in response to a draft of the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which was circulated in March. The draft prohibited the use of biomass from federal lands to meet the federally mandated renewable electricity standard. By excluding biomass from public lands from the electricity standard, H.R. 2454 would have denied land managers an important outlet for the excessive biomass loads that often accumulate on public lands and could have lead to a decrease in responsible forest management. Alternatively, DeFazio’s provision promotes the use of renewable energy from biomass gathered on federal lands. His definition is particularly relevant to Oregon where thousands of acres of federal forests are in dire need of thinning treatments to reduce fire hazards, contain disease and infestation, and to restore forest health. DeFazio’s definition of biomass will also contribute to American efforts to develop and promote renewable energy solutions. Investments in renewable energy sources of this kind are necessary to increase American energy independence, strengthen national security, lower energy costs, contribute to the growth of the economy, and reduce global warming. "Biomass utilization is an important component of energy independence," DeFazio said. "There are many innovative companies that are actively developing new biomass technology. The language I was able to include in H.R.2454 will ensure that we take an environmentally sensitive and responsible approach towards stewardship of our federal forest lands and biomass development. We can't import, dig, drill and burn our way to long term energy security and efforts, such as this one surrounding biomass, are invaluable in our long term search for energy independence. This is only a first step but I am pleased that my colleagues have finally realized the role that our national forests can play in solving our energy process."
05.08.2009	May 7, 2009 Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today joined with a delegation of West Coast Congressional Members in sending a letter to Obama Administration officials urging them to restore funding for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund in the President’s Fiscal Year 2010 budget request. The President’s budget request, which was made public Thursday, eliminates the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund, a dedicated resource for Western states to restore salmon and steelhead populations. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today joined with a delegation of West Coast Congressional Members in sending a letter to Obama Administration officials urging them to restore funding for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund in the President’s Fiscal Year 2010 budget request. The President’s budget request, which was made public Thursday, eliminates the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund, a dedicated resource for Western states to restore salmon and steelhead populations. "Salmon fishing is a critical part of the Oregon economy. Recent closures of the salmon season have made it nearly impossible for fisherman in my district to make ends meet," DeFazio said. "Recovering salmon populations and putting fisherman back to work is imperative to the south coast. I look forward to working with the Administration to restore the program funding." The full text of the letter sent to key Administration officials and the full list of signers follows: Dear Director Orszag, Secretary Locke and Administrator Lubchenco: We are writing today to express our deep disappointment that the President’s Fiscal Year 2010 budget request eliminates the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund (PCSRF) and to request a budget amendment to restore this critical program funding. The PCSRF was created by Congress in Fiscal Year 2000 to address the need to protect, restore and conserve Pacific salmon and steelhead, and their habitat in the states of Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, Alaska, and Nevada. On the West Coast and especially in the Pacific Northwest, salmon are part of our heritage, our culture and our economy. Salmon are a link to our past, and it will require a generational effort to recover these iconic species. The PCSRF takes that long view, and focuses on measurable results. Past program funding has resulted in impressive accomplishments in local and state salmon recovery efforts. Federal funding, together with state and local resources, has allowed local citizens and officials to initiate thousands of restoration and conservation projects, including hatchery reform, within our states. In 2008, every federal dollar spent on this program leveraged about 2 local and state dollars. The majority of these projects, developed using a "bottom up" approach, focus on direct improvements to habitat for salmon and steelhead, resulting in more than 500,000 acres of restored habitat, and approximately 3,575 opened stream miles. This form of citizen involvement is exactly the type of commitment needed to succeed in protecting and restoring these important species of fish that are so integral to the economic and ecological well-being of our states. Funds have also been used for on-the-ground restoration projects, ranging from culvert replacement at single sites to erosion control over large areas, and have generated hundreds of jobs for unemployed timber workers while producing additional economic benefits over time as they contribute to the recovery of commercially and recreationally important species. In particular, the jobs produced by road decommissioning, re-vegetation efforts and fish passage projects represent valuable employment opportunities in today’s depressed job market. The National Marine Fisheries Service developed and implemented six program performance goals and numerous performance measures that are monitored on an annual basis to assure federal and state funds are being used responsibly and effectively. Real progress toward salmon recovery is being made, as noted in the 2008 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Report to Congress on the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund; "Through the PCSRF and efforts and contributions of state and tribal partners, progress is being made in the overall recovery of Pacific salmon and steelhead. Continued commitment, collaboration and resources are required to achieve the overarching goal of full recovery and sustainability." Recovering our salmon populations to continue our way of life, and put our fishermen back to work is a challenge that we on the West Coast take seriously, and we remain committed to its success. We look forward to working with you to correct this elimination and restore the program funding. We look forward to hearing from you on this matter. Sincerely, Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR 4th), Senator Murray (D-WA), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Representative Norm Dicks (D-WA 6th), Senator Mark Begich (D-AK), Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID), Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Representative Adam Smith (D-WA 9th), Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Representative David Wu (D-OR 1st), Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Representative Brian Baird (D-WA 3rd), Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR 3rd), Representative Lynn Woolsey (D-CA 6th), Representative Greg Walden (R- OR 2nd), Representative George Miller (D-CA 7th), Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA 8th), Representative Kurt Schrader (D-OR 5th), Representative Lois Capps (D-CA 23rd), Representative Jim McDermott (D-WA 7th), Representative Sam Farr (D-CA 17th), Representative Jackie Speier (D-CA 12th), Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA 1st), Representative Mike Thompson (D-CA 1st), Representative Anna Eshoo (D-CA 14th), Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd) and Senator Jim Risch (R-ID).
05.07.2009	May 6, 2009 Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today voted to protect American consumers from abusive practices and predatory lending in the mortgage industry. H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, outlaws many of the egregious mortgage industry practices that caused the subprime lending boom. Subprime loans are ultimately at the heart of the current economic crisis. The bill also marks a key step in the overhaul of the nation’s financial regulations. – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today voted to protect American consumers from abusive practices and predatory lending in the mortgage industry. H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, outlaws many of the egregious mortgage industry practices that caused the subprime lending boom. Subprime loans are ultimately at the heart of the current economic crisis. The bill also marks a key step in the overhaul of the nation’s financial regulations. "Over the past few years too many within the industry have acted out of self interest instead of the best interest of their clients. Quite simply, people were sold, often unknowingly, mortgages they could not afford," DeFazio said. "I was happy to support this common sense legislation which will reregulate the mortgage industry and protect consumers from this type of predatory behavior." Specifically, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act ensures that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer and prohibits them from steering borrowers into higher cost loans. It will, in effect, prevent borrowers from deliberately misstating their income to qualify for a loan. For the first time ever, it holds accountable all of those who originate, sell and buy loans, including those on Wall Street who buy up and bundle mortgages for profit. The legislation also establishes standards for all home loans which require institutions to ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Finally, it requires that all mortgage refinancing loans benefit the consumer and encourages the market to move back toward fully documented loans. "For far too long we have ignored the interests of consumers and relaxed regulatory standards in the name of free market fantasies," DeFazio continued. "This legislation is a concrete step toward restoring the financial footing of our financial system, and protecting consumers from deceptive marketing."
04.30.2009	April 29, 2009 Washington D.C. – Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-05) and Rep. Peter Defazio (D-04) announced today that $6.4 million of the remaining 2008 salmon disaster relief money will be coming to Oregon fishers to help them through this year’s closure of the commercial salmon season. "The closure of the salmon season is a huge blow to the fishing industry in my district. I am pleased NOAA decided to reallocate funds from the 2008 disaster money so that our fishing communities can weather this storm," DeFazio said. "Short-term assistance is critical so that folks can make boat payments, insurance payments, mortgage payments and keep food on the table in this already struggling economy, while we continue to work on a long-term solution." "I’m pleased that NOAA made the decision to reallocate the 2008 salmon money. This funding is critical for our coastal communities which rely so heavily on fishing," said Schrader. "Today’s decision will ensure that Oregon fishers can receive some measure of immediate relief while I work with my colleagues in Congress to secure additional funds for the 2009 disaster, while we continue to work for a sustainable solution allowing fishing to continue." Of the $170 million originally appropriated for the 2008 salmon disaster, Oregon received $26.7 million to provide direct financial relief to fishers and other businesses impacted by the closure. After the 2008 money was dispersed, Oregon was left with $1.3 million. This $6.4 million includes the remaining $1.3 million plus $5.1 million from other states bringing Oregon to 40% of the 2008 allocation that will be distributed by the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission. NOAA’s decision came in response to an April 9, 2009 letter sent by Congressmen Schrader, Defazio and the rest of the Oregon Congressional delegation to Commerce Secretary Gary Locke calling for an extension of the 2008 disaster period. The letter also asked that the Secretary to reallocate the remaining funds between the affected states based on current need.
04.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit the coast on Tuesday, April 14th to hold three town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the April district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, the upcoming transportation reauthorization, recent passage of the public lands omnibus – legislation expanding wilderness protections in Oregon – and Mexico’s retaliatory tariffs, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Tuesday, April 14, 2009 10:30 AM- 11:30 AM Florence Town Hall Meeting Florence Events Center 715 Quince Street Florence 2:00 PM-3:00 PM Reedsport Town Hall Meeting Umpqua Discovery Center 409 Riverfront Way Reedsport 5:30 PM-6:30 PM Coos Bay Town Hall Meeting Coos Bay Library Myrtlewood Room 525 Anderson Avenue Coos Bay
04.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit Lane County on Wednesday, April 15th to hold four town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the April district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, the upcoming transportation reauthorization, recent passage of the public lands omnibus – legislation expanding wilderness protections in Oregon – and Mexico’s retaliatory tariffs, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday, April 15, 2009 10:15 AM- 11:15 AM Eugene Town Hall Meeting Hilyard Community Center Multi-Purpose Room 2580 Hilyard Street Eugene 1:30 PM-2:30 PM Springfield Seniors Town Hall Meeting Willamalane Community Center McKenzie Room 215 W. C Street Springfield 5:30 PM-6:30 PM Eugene Town Hall Meeting Lane County Courthouse Harris Hall 125 E. 8th St. Eugene 7:00 PM-8:00 PM Springfield Town Hall Meeting Springfield City Hall Springfield City Council Chambers 225 5th St. Springfield
04.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit Linn County on Thursday, April 16th to hold three town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the April district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, the upcoming transportation reauthorization, recent passage of the public lands omnibus - legislation expanding wilderness protections in Oregon - and Mexico's retaliatory tariffs, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Thursday, April 16, 2009 9:30 AM- 10:30 AM Sweet Home Town Hall MeetingSweet Home Fire Hall Meeting Room1099 Long StreetSweet Home 1:00 PM-2:00 PM Lebanon Town Hall Meeting Lebanon Boys and Girls Club Multi-Purpose Room305 S. 5th StreetLebanon 5:30 PM-6:30 PM Albany Town Hall MeetingAlbany City Council Chambers333 Broadalbin Street, S.W.Albany
04.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit Benton County on Monday, April 13th to hold three town hall meetings. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the April district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss recent congressional efforts to address the current economic crisis, the upcoming transportation reauthorization, recent passage of the public lands omnibus - legislation expanding wilderness protections in Oregon - and Mexico's retaliatory tariffs, among other issues of interest. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Monday, April 13, 2009 10:00 AM- 11:00 AM Philomath Town Hall Meeting Benton County Historical Museum1101 Main Street Philomath 12:00 PM-1:00 PM Corvallis Town Hall Meeting Corvallis-Benton County Public Library Main meeting room 645 N.W. Monroe Ave Corvallis 5:30 PM-6:30 PM Corvallis Town Hall Meeting Construction and Engineering Hall 100 LaSells Stewart Center Corvallis
04.07.2009	April 6, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today applauded the announcement by United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ron Kirk to place tariffs on Canadian softwood lumber imports. The Canadian government, in violation of the Softwood Lumber Agreement, has been subsidizing the Canadian lumber industry. These illegal subsidies have allowed Canadian timber companies to dump their lumber into the American market at well below the true market price. These imports have decimated the U.S. timber industry at a time when the economic crisis has reduced the demand for timber. Canada's illegal action has put U.S. sawmills, workers, and communities across America in jeopardy. U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today applauded the announcement by United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ron Kirk to place tariffs on Canadian softwood lumber imports. The Canadian government, in violation of the Softwood Lumber Agreement, has been subsidizing the Canadian lumber industry. These illegal subsidies have allowed Canadian timber companies to dump their lumber into the American market at well below the true market price. These imports have decimated the U.S. timber industry at a time when the economic crisis has reduced the demand for timber. Canada's illegal action has put U.S. sawmills, workers, and communities across America in jeopardy. "I am happy that the Obama Administration is finally standing up to the Canadian government and their illegal activities by placing tariffs on Canadian lumber," DeFazio said. "The timber industry is extremely important to Southwest Oregon and Canada's illegal activities have caused our mills to close and cost thousands of Oregonians their jobs." The Bush Administration renegotiated the Softwood Lumber Agreement in 2006, but was unwilling to crack down on Canada's frequent violation of the trade agreement since then. "The free trade disciples in the Bush Administration refused to stand up for American workers and American jobs. The path forward is one of balanced trade in which workers are not just a commodity looking for the lowest wages," said DeFazio
03.30.2009	March 29, 2009 Washington, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio today applauded the release of a report by the environmental group Friends of the Earth, which raises concerns about the implementation of a carbon cap-and-trade system. A cap and trade system sets pollution limits (the "cap") and doles out allowances that can be bought and sold to meet the targets (the "trade"). Current proposals include very little regulation of the trading of these allowances. In Europe, emissions continue to rise despite $60 billion worth of allowances being traded in the lucrative market every year. DeFazio has been a long time critic of an unregulated market-based approach to address climate change, pointing to the potential for market manipulation, speculation, and profiteering. Rep. Peter DeFazio today applauded the release of a report by the environmental group Friends of the Earth, which raises concerns about the implementation of a carbon cap-and-trade system. A cap and trade system sets pollution limits (the "cap") and doles out allowances that can be bought and sold to meet the targets (the "trade"). Current proposals include very little regulation of the trading of these allowances. In Europe, emissions continue to rise despite $60 billion worth of allowances being traded in the lucrative market every year. DeFazio has been a long time critic of an unregulated market-based approach to address climate change, pointing to the potential for market manipulation, speculation, and profiteering. "The U.S. must be a leader in reducing green house gas emissions, but we should reconsider the rush to implement an untested, unregulated market-based system to respond to a serious issue like climate change," DeFazio said. "Deregulation brought a meltdown to West Coast electricity markets and helped cause our current financial crisis. Yet, here we are again talking about a deregulated market to respond to one of the most important and pressing challenges of our time, global warming." The Friends of the Earth report points out that currently, most carbon is sold as what is known as a "futures contract" meaning, the carbon credit is sold at a certain price, on a specified date. This is a form of "derivative." Today’s carbon markets are small, but if the United States adopts carbon trading on the scale envisioned by most federal cap-and-trade proposals, carbon futures will become what Commodities Future Trading Commissioner Bart Chilton called "the biggest of any derivatives product," and have far reaching consequences. DeFazio and Friends of the Earth both worry that due to the lack of regulation in the markets, this will create a "carbon bubble" because the size of the secondary market (where individual or repackaged carbon is sold for the second, third, or twentieth time) will far out shadow the primary market (where carbon is bought and sold for the first time). This means, people will be taking bets on carbon credits the same way they were on subprime mortgage derivatives. Bets made in the secondary market carry a higher probability of not being paid, much like subprime loans or junk bonds. In Europe, banks are already trading in this risky carbon derivatives market. If this is allowed to happen in the United States, Friends of the Earth and DeFazio both worry that the "carbon bubble" would be highly susceptible to a massive collapse, similar to the effect subprime mortgages had on the financial market last year. "An unregulated cap-and-trade system could be the next subprime mortgage bubble," DeFazio said. "In the next decade we could easily be talking about ‘subprime carbon,’ ‘carbon default swaps,’ and ‘junk carbon.’ The Friends of the Earth report is sobering and should be the canary in the coalmine of an unregulated cap-and-trade system." Not only is the creation of a "carbon bubble" risky, it will do almost nothing to reduce carbon emissions. Derivatives’ trading does not help businesses develop cleaner technology, invest in renewable energy, and ultimately reduce emissions. Instead, it would distort supply-and-demand fundamentals and will help inflate prices, devastating our manufacturing and energy sectors, and leaving the American consumer to bear the brunt of the cost. Furthermore, with the exception of electric utilities, sources of green house gases are not generally required to monitor or report their emissions. This means carbon targets are based on our best guesses, not exact science. As they did in Europe, armies of lobbyists have already been deployed to Washington, D.C. to try and influence the carbon baseline. Under a cap-and-trade in Europe, emissions have never been reduced. The report can be found at: https://www.foe.org/subprimecarbon
03.26.2009	March 25, 2009 Washington, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio today voted to improve forest health, public safety and the ability of our federal land management agencies to fight forest fires when he voted for H.R. 1404, the Federal Land Assistance, Management and Enhancement (FLAME) Act. The legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 412 to 3, creates a FLAME fund for emergency wildfire suppression. Rep. Peter DeFazio today voted to improve forest health, public safety and the ability of our federal land management agencies to fight forest fires when he voted for H.R. 1404, the Federal Land Assistance, Management and Enhancement (FLAME) Act. The legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 412 to 3, creates a FLAME fund for emergency wildfire suppression. "Fire suppression costs have increased with alarming speed in recent years. Currently, our agencies simply do not have the resources to effectively respond to these threats. We do not want the problem to escalate, forcing us to make hard choices between money and safety. The FLAME Act ends that threat by providing adequate funding to fight fires," DeFazio said. "Furthermore, it means that fighting fires will no longer drain the coffers of our federal land management agencies. Instead, they will be able to focus on promoting the health, productivity, diversity, and beauty of our forests and public lands." For more than a decade, the skyrocketing costs of fighting wildland fires have forced federal land management agencies to "borrow" funds from non-fire programs, thus eroding the core mission of these agencies. Wildland fire activities now account for approximately 48 percent of the Forest Service budget, up from just 13 percent in 1991. These activities also account for more than 10 percent of the Interior Department budget. The FLAME Act will put an end to this practice, meaning funds will be appropriately used for their intended purpose such as forest health improvements. In addition, the bill establishes a grant program within each department designed to assist communities in preparing for wildfires. Grants could be used for purchasing firefighting equipment, and training programs for local firefighters. Grants could also be used for education and public awareness regarding wildfires, and development and implementation of community wildfire protection plans. The bill also has a robust oversight provision. It requires the Departments of Agriculture and Interior to submit a report to Congress one year after the bill’s enactment containing a cohesive wildland fire management strategy. The bill requires the report to include a system identifying the most cost-effective means for allocating fire management resources, a system for assessing the level of risk to communities from wildfires, an illustration of plans by the departments to re-invest in non-fire programs, and a system ensuring that the highest priority fuels reduction projects (which can prevent catastrophic wildfires) are being funded first.
03.25.2009	March 24, 2009 Washington, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio today voted to expand and protect America’s treasured public lands. H.R. 146, the public lands omnibus, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 285 to 140. The landmark legislation combines more than 160 individual measures which were introduced in the previous Congress by both Democrats and Republicans in the House and the Senate. The bill includes new wilderness designations, wild and scenic rivers, National Park units, hiking trails, heritage areas, water projects, and historic preservation initiatives. Rep. Peter DeFazio today voted to expand and protect America’s treasured public lands. H.R. 146, the public lands omnibus, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 285 to 140. The landmark legislation combines more than 160 individual measures which were introduced in the previous Congress by both Democrats and Republicans in the House and the Senate. The bill includes new wilderness designations, wild and scenic rivers, National Park units, hiking trails, heritage areas, water projects, and historic preservation initiatives. "This bill’s final passage is long overdue. The measure is vital to preserving our precious landscapes, educating generations and supporting local communities, especially in Oregon," DeFazio said. "I was particularly pleased that the Copper Salmon Wilderness and the Cascade Siskiyou National Monument provisions were included. The Copper Salmon is truly a rare coastal Oregon gem -- an almost entirely intact ancient forest which supports healthy fish runs –and it is also vital to Oregon’s fishing communities. The Siskiyou National Monument provision will preserve the pristine backcountry and the rare plants and animals that live there so they can be enjoyed for generations to come," DeFazio continued. Oregon had five vital provisions included in the legislation: The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act designates 9.3 miles of rivers at the headwaters of the North Fork of the Elk River as Wild and Scenic and adds 13,700 acres of new wilderness adjacent to the existing Grassy Knob Wilderness. Renowned among fishermen, the Elk River watershed is one of the last intact watersheds on the southwest Oregon Coast and is widely regarded as Oregon’s last, best, coastal salmon and steelhead stream. Oregon State University researchers have concluded that the Elk River is one of the healthiest habitats in the lower 48 states for anadromous fish, and the stream is home to chinook salmon, winter steelhead, coho salmon, cutthroat trout, and rainbow trout. The watershed also has the distinction as one of the most productive salmon and steelhead rivers outside of Alaska. The Cascade Siskiyou National Monument Act establishes a 23,000-acre wilderness area, to be known as the Soda Mountain Wilderness, in the Monument's southern backcountry. Located where Oregon’s eastern deserts meet the fir forests, the area contains oak groves, meadows filled with wildflowers, and steep canyons unmatched in the Cascade Range. It is also home to a spectacular variety of rare species of plants and animals such as Roosevelt elk, cougars, golden and bald eagles, goshawks and falcons, whose survival in this region depends upon continued ecological integrity of this area. Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Act protects almost 127,000 acres around Mount Hood with Wilderness protection and adds almost 80 miles on nine free-flowing stretches of rivers to the National Wild and Scenic River System. It also authorizes a number of high priority, locally supported land exchanges. The Oregon Badlands Wilderness Act designates almost 30,000 acres of wilderness 15 miles east of Bend. The wilderness designation comes over two decades after the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) recommended the area be preserved; The Spring Basin Wilderness Act designates approximately 8,600 acres of BLM land as the Spring Basin Wilderness, overlooking the John Day Wild and Scenic River. The area is important habitat for populations of Mule Deer, Rocky Mountain Elk and many bird species, and offers recreational opportunities for hikers, horseback riders, hunters, botanists and other outdoor enthusiasts
03.23.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today sent a letter to President Obama urging him to take action against Mexico’s illegal tariffs. Mexico has placed exorbitant tariffs on 90 U.S. export products. The tariffs, which are illegal under NAFTA, are in retaliation to the overwhelming votes by Congress to end the Mexican Cross Boarder Trucking Pilot Program. DeFazio led several bi-partisan efforts to end the program in the past two years. Objection to the program is predominantly due to Mexico’s less stringent regulations on hours-of-service, vehicle safety, and driver training and licensing. Several of the tariffs are aimed at products produced in DeFazio’s district and the products from the districts of other Members of Congress who have been actively opposed to the pilot program. Letter is below: March 20, 2009 The President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington DC, 20500 Dear President Obama: As you are aware, Mexico has announced $2.4 billion in retaliatory tariffs against the United States because Congress terminated the Cross Border Truck Safety Inspection Program. These tariffs are illegal and should be treated as nothing more than political gamesmanship. Mexico has no legal grounds to implement any of these tariffs. Even if there was a legal basis for the tariffs, the $2.4 billion price tag is a disproportionate response, and the 90 U.S. products targeted for tariffs were illegally selected. The United States must not cave in to these scare tactics and sacrifice the safety of the traveling public on our highways. As you will recall, when you served in the U.S. Senate you joined an overwhelming majority of Congress in repeatedly rejecting this notion. We must call Mexico’s bluff. In 2001, a NAFTA arbitration panel found that the U.S. refusal to permit entry to any Mexican truck carriers was NAFTA illegal, but the panel also made it clear that U.S. safety standards do not need to be waived to comply with NAFTA. In response to the ruling, the Bush Administration established the Cross Border Truck Safety Inspection Program. Under this program, the free trade ideologues within the Bush Administration falsely claimed Mexican and U.S. track safety laws were equivalent. However, repeated studies by the U.S. Department of Transportation's own Inspector General showed that neither Mexico's carrier truck fleet nor its driver licensing and safety rules meet the requirements of U.S. law. In addition, federal studies have shown that Mexican trucks are three times more likely to have safety deficiencies than U.S. trucks. In defense of families who share the same highways with these trucks, Congress has firmly rejected the demonstration inspection program. The path foreword is clear. Your administration can be compliant with the 2001 NAFTA arbitration panel by allowing Mexican trucks access to the U.S roadways if those carriers can prove they meet U.S. safety standards regarding hours of service, driver training, licensing, drug testing and vehicle safety. This is entirely reasonable. And your administration has clearly indicated this is the path it intends to take, making the Mexican tariff threat a political stunt. Any action to impose a tariff would be illegal. Putting aside the lack of a legal basis, the $2.4 billion value of the proposed tariffs is grossly distorted and not supported by the facts. Mexico has no legal basis to impose greater costs on the United States than the supposed costs on the Mexican economy. Mexico has made it clear that it chose products for retaliatory tariffs that would harm the districts or states of Members of Congress who led the charge to rid this program. For example, Oregon exports were specifically targeted including Christmas trees, wine, potatoes, pears, onions, and cherries. In essence, the government of Mexico is targeting U.S. elected officials who stand up for the safety of Americans. As you well know, such arbitrary tariffs are prohibited under the terms of WTO and NAFTA. Compare those tactics to how the U.S. government tries to help Mexico cope with a major crime problem. The United States and Mexico have initiated the Mérida Initiative, a multi-year proposal for $1.4 billion in U.S. assistance to Mexico and Central America aimed at combating drug trafficking and organized crime. The FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill provides $405 million for this initiative. If the Mexican government continues to threaten the United States and its elected officials, then I suggest you withhold the $405 million in taxpayer dollars destined for the Mérida Initiative. We cannot allow the Mexican government to hold us hostage. I ask that your administration challenge the legality of the tariffs. To be honest, this issue provides a clear example of why NAFTA should be renegotiated. Even if Mexican carriers meet all U.S. safety requirements, the low wages of Mexican drivers will still drive U.S trucking companies out of business. This continues a disturbing trend of American job losses through outsourcing. The difference is that we are allowing foreign workers making foreign wages to enter our nation and unfairly compete for American jobs. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
03.19.2009	March 18, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today stood up for hard working Oregonians when he voted to reclaim taxpayer money and deny greedy AIG executives the outrageous bonuses the company doled out to them. The legislation, H.R. 1586, the Bonus Recoupment Tax Act, will tax bonuses for those earning more than $250,000 at 90% at all companies that have, or will, receive more than $5 billion from the Targeted Asset Relief Program (TARP). The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 328 to 93. "Finally today, my colleagues joined me and those who opposed the initial bailout plan in protecting the American taxpayer by taking back these absurd bonuses from the greedy executives on Wall Street who are responsible for ruining our economy. More has to be done to rebuild our economy but at least this was a start." DeFazio said After receiving more than $170 billion in taxpayer funds, AIG paid $165 million in retention payments to executives. These were the same executives who mismanaged the company’s hedge fund and nearly bankrupted the company and the country. AIG only exists today thanks to the largess of the American taxpayers. The top recipient received more than $6.4 million and more than 73 executives were paid over $1 million in retention bonuses. After receiving their retention bonuses, at least eleven recipients left the company. No taxpayer funds should be used to pay bonuses or other unjustified compensation to AIG executives whose irresponsible risk-taking brought our financial system to the brink of collapse. "Though the legislation we passed today sends a clear message to AIG executives and others that this type of greed will not be tolerated, we need to ensure that we are never faced with this situation again. We need financial regulatory reform," DeFazio said. "I have also asked President Obama to increase funding for the FBI’s White Collar Crimes Program to investigate the institutions and individuals involved in the fraud and financial irregularities that contributed to this economic mess."
03.12.2009	March 12, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, was pleased that the Mexican Truck pilot program officially ended today. The Obama Administration announced that it would respond to H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act, which the Senate passed yesterday, and end the current demonstration program. The legislation defunded the Mexican truck demonstration program and prevented a new demonstration program from being implemented. DeFazio led several bi-partisan efforts to end the program in the past two years. Despite several overwhelming votes by Congress to stop the program, the Bush Administration insisted on pushing forward with the program. Objection to the program is predominantly due to Mexico’s less stringent regulations on hours-of-service, vehicle safety, and driver training and licensing. "Mexican trucks pose a serious threat to the safety of our highways and the security of our country and I am glad that the Obama Administration responded to congressional action today to end this ill advised experiment," DeFazio said. "This is a major victory for the safety of the American public. I am happy that my subcommittee can focus our attention on the upcoming surface transportation authorization as opposed to stopping Mexican trucks from crossing our borders."
03.12.2009	March 12, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce that he is accepting submissions to represent Oregon's 4th Congressional District in the Annual Congressional Art Competition. The winning piece of art from each congressional district will be put on display as part of the national exhibition in the Cannon Tunnel, a pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol, and will be on display until May 2010. The art exhibit is a highlight for the hundreds of thousands of visitors to the U.S. Capitol each year. "The competition is a wonderful and exciting opportunity for aspiring young artists to gain experience showing their work," DeFazio said. "I'm excited to see what the talented young artists of southwest Oregon have to offer this year." The competition is open only to high school students. DeFazio’s office recently sent a letter to each high school in the fourth congressional district with the competition guidelines and entry forms. Any high school student in the district may submit artwork for consideration. The piece must be two dimensional, framed and original in concept, design and execution. Submissions are due in DeFazio’s Eugene office by May 8, 2009. Contact DeFazio’s Eugene office at 1-800-944-9603 for more detailed information such as framing guidelines.
03.12.2009	March 12, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio’s (D-Springfield) effort to redirect $8 million in funds to help the Port of Coos Bay buy the CORP rail line became final this week when the Senate passed the omnibus appropriations bill for FY2009. For decades the rail line has provided a crucial transportation connection between Coos Bay and Eugene. The week after the line closed in 2007, a Georgia-Pacific sawmill temporarily shut down, laying off 120 employees. The average shipper along the Coos Bay line now pays 10-15 percent more in shipping costs because they have to ship by truck. "This is great news for the Port, the state and the business in southwest Oregon. I am pleased to have been able to help reallocate the funds to save the rail line," DeFazio said. "The rail line is vital to the economy of the south coast. Several major employers in the area depend on the rail line to get their goods to market. The shut down has forced businesses to incur additional transportation costs and caused the loss of hundreds of jobs to local communities." CORP, the private company that currently owns the line, embargoed the it in September of 2007, and later sought to abandon the line altogether. DeFazio, Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee, originally secured the $8 million in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy For Users (SAFETEA-LU) to help the Port make repairs to a rail bridge on the Coos Bay Line in 2005. The Port has made enough repairs to the bridge with funding secured by DeFazio in the 1998 surface transportation bill, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, that the bridge will last another ten years so those funds can be safely reallocated to purchase the line. Combined with the $4 million in state funding the Oregon Transportation Commission has agreed to provide and the recent loan from the Oregon Economic and Community Development Department, the Port of Coos Bay will have the funds it needs to purchase the rail line.
03.12.2009	March 11, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), today voted to make key investments, $13.8 billion over five years, to improve water quality for communities around the country by voting for H.R. 1262, the Water Quality Investment Act. The Legislation also has the potential to create approximately 480,000 jobs over the next five years. The measure passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 317 to 101. "Fixing our nation’s broken water infrastructure is key to maintaining the health of our citizens, sustaining our environment and improving and diversifying our economy," DeFazio said. "I’ve heard from mayors in my state who can’t upgrade their water systems without increasing water bills by 50-100 percent. With the struggling economy, the last thing consumers need is a jump in their water and sewer bills" "This bill puts people back to work and is a smart solution to our wastewater problems," DeFazio continued. "The federal government used to partner with communities to build wastewater infrastructure projects that allowed local communities to meet federal clean water mandates. Unfortunately, we have moved away from that partnership in recent years. This bill helps get us closer to being a real partner again in making needed investments in wastewater projects. Investing in our water infrastructure creates good paying jobs and provides our children with infrastructure that will last for decades." After years of underfunding by a GOP-controlled Congress, the bill authorizes a robust level of funding for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund provides low-interest loans and additional subsidies to local communities for construction of wastewater treatment facilities and other water pollution abatement projects. Since it was created in 1987, the Clean Water State Revolving Fund has been the primary source of federal funding for wastewater infrastructure projects. This legislation begins to close an approximately $3.2 billion to $11.1 billion annual funding gap that exists between wastewater infrastructure needs and current funding levels. If this gap is not closed, it is projected that in the next few years water quality will decline back to the distressing levels of the early 1970s. Furthermore, the bill will create infrastructure projects that will put people back to work in this struggling economy. Under the measure, Oregon will receive $155.5 million over five years to improve wastewater treatment facilities. The Senate must now take up the legislation.
03.11.2009	
02.26.2009	February 26, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement on President Obama's fiscal year 2010 budget, which was released this morning. "Overall, I was pleased with President Obama’s 10-year budget outline. The budget is an honest assessment of the challenges facing our nation, no longer hiding costs like the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax each year. Years of fiscal irresponsibility under the Bush Administration have created record deficits, and I am committed to working with the President to find solutions and eliminate the deficit as quickly as possible so we do not pass our debt on to our children. I was particularly happy with the proposed tax reforms that will make the tax system more fair and progressive. The closure of tax loopholes will prod multinational corporations and billionaires to pay their fair share of taxes. After eight years of tax cuts for those who needed them the least, it is refreshing to have a budget that recognizes the middle class. I was also glad that the budget included $1.5 trillion in savings over 10 years by responsibly drawing down troops in Iraq. It is time for our troops to come home. And, it was good to see that $520 billion for disabled veterans was included. It is time to deliver the benefits we promised those that honorably served our nation. Finally, the budget included $634 billion over 10 years to finance health care reform. I agree with President Obama that health care reform cannot wait. I look forward to the details on President Obama’s proposal. There were, however, sections of the budget that concerned me. For instance, the projected $645 billion "cap and trade" windfall to the federal government is more likely to end up in the hands of hedge funds and speculative traders. I have strong concerns with market based cap and trade proposals to limit climate change emissions given the recent failure of the unregulated financial system and the Enron disaster following energy deregulation. Furthermore, I am deeply concerned about the $250 billion in additional Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds set aside in this budget. I strongly opposed the original TARP program and offered a low cost alternative. Throwing away further taxpayer dollars to bailout Wall Street is not a responsible use of taxpayer dollars. Lastly, I was most disappointed by the infrastructure investments proposed in the budget. I have joined a bi-partisan bi-cameral group of Transportation Committee leaders to outright reject the Administration’s proposal to raid and destroy the sanctity of the Highway Trust Fund. It is a non-starter in Congress. Furthermore, underfunding the Highway Trust Fund will undo any progress made in job creation by the recent "stimulus" legislation because it will undermine the ability of state and local governments to plan and fund projects at a time when the economy desperately needs a shot in the arm. We need to increase infrastructure investment to create jobs, stimulate the economy and improve our long-term economic viability. There are elements of this budget I agree with and elements I disagree with, but I am pleased that this is the first honest budget I have seen in eight years. It lays out many good strategies to reduce the massive deficits courtesy of the Bush Administration and get our nation back onto the path of fiscal responsibility." An overview of the President’s budget can be found at www.omb.gov
02.25.2009	Februaru 25, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio tonight responded to President Obama’s address to the joint session of Congress. Following are DeFazio's remarks: "It was a powerful speech. President Obama put his finger on the problems that put our nation in the current economic mess: deregulation, quick profits, greed and sacrificing the future for short term gains. I support his statement that we have to act boldly and wisely to rebuild our economy with a vision for lasting prosperity for generations of Americans to come. We have common goals and common concerns. Some of his specifics are right on point; regulation will avoid future fraud and fiscal collapse, ending wasteful no bid contracts and favoritism, stopping the purchase of outdated, gold plated weapons our military doesn’t need, rooting out waste fraud and abuse in Medicare and other programs that don’t serve the needs of our seniors and other Americans, and ending tax breaks for corporations that ship jobs over seas. Where we agree on solutions I will support him 100% and where we disagree, I will work with him to find better solutions for our commonly shared concerns over the problems besetting our nation."
02.13.2009	February 13, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today voted against H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. DeFazio voted in favor of the original House legislation because the country urgently needs economic stimulus and he hoped the legislation would be substantially improved by the Senate. Unfortunately the final bill is worse and DeFazio voted against the legislation because it was laden with excessive tax cuts that reduced investment in programs that will create jobs and educate our children. Unfortunately, the bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 246 to 183. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today voted against H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. DeFazio voted in favor of the original House legislation because the country urgently needs economic stimulus and he hoped the legislation would be substantially improved by the Senate. Unfortunately the final bill is worse and DeFazio voted against the legislation because it was laden with excessive tax cuts that reduced investment in programs that will create jobs and educate our children. Unfortunately, the bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 246 to 183. "I supported the original objective to have a bill that was timely, targeted and temporary. Instead, we ended up with a huge grab bag, some of which is good like the $80 billion to fix our crumbling infrastructure or the money to educate our children, but there are hundreds of billions of dollars in excessive tax cuts that will do little to stimulate our economy or put our nation on the road to recovery," DeFazio said. "I could support borrowing money for infrastructure investments that will produce a product for generations to come but not $326 billion for tax cuts which will provide limited relief for working families and little economic stimulus. Infrastructure funding is a proven way to put thousands of people in the hard hit construction industry back to work and yet, infrastructure spending doesn’t even account for 10% of the funds in the bill." The original House passed legislation, though it was not perfect, included critical funding for school construction, education, transit, and other infrastructure funding which was stripped out or significantly cut when the House and Senate versions of the bill were reconciled. The original legislation would have created 1 million more jobs than the compromise that passed the House today. The House version addressed the budget shortfall for funding facing Oregon schools, helped to modernize schools and substantially improved the nation’s transit systems. Every $1 billion spent on infrastructure creates 34,779 jobs and $6.2 billion in economic activity. It is an excellent way to stimulate the economy as opposed to the majority of tax cuts in this bill which will provide no economic stimulus. For example, the payroll tax cut will put about $8 a week in people’s pockets but will cost $115 billion over ten years. Working families can certainly use the money but it is not going to create needed jobs or help rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. Additionally, the inclusion of Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief will cost $80 billion and provide zero stimulus to our economy. Oregon is facing a devastating statewide budget shortfall of $800 million in the final months of the state’s biennial budget that ends in June. Almost half of this budget shortfall is for K-12 education alone. By not accounting for Oregon’s budget shortfall, Oregon schools may have to close early this year, a devastating blow to the education of our children. Oregon is receiving $400 million less in the compromised version of the bill than it did in the original House version. "I don’t believe, and I don’t think most Oregonians believe, that this bill is what we need to turn this country around and put us on the path to economic recovery. The $326 billion in tax cuts won’t build bridges, educate our children or even fill in potholes," said DeFazio. "I voted no because I believe we should have spent this money more wisely but I will continue fighting to for those things that are necessary to the recovery of our economy."
01.28.2009	January 27, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio’s (D-OR) amendment to increase transit funding in H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, passed the House of Representatives today. The amendment, which DeFazio coauthored with Rep. Nadler (D-NY), will increase the amount spent on transit capital by $3 billion. This will bring the total amount spent on new transit under H.R. 1 to $12 billion, which will create 33,000 new jobs and help transit systems meet steady growing demand for public transit services. —Congressman Peter DeFazio’s (D-OR) amendment to increase transit funding in H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, passed the House of Representatives today. The amendment, which DeFazio coauthored with Rep. Nadler (D-NY), will increase the amount spent on transit capital by $3 billion. This will bring the total amount spent on new transit under H.R. 1 to $12 billion, which will create 33,000 new jobs and help transit systems meet steady growing demand for public transit services. "We are loving our transit systems to death. Americans are flocking to public transit at rates not seen in half a century in the U.S. but we aren’t even maintaining past investments, let alone making upgrades to accommodate the thousands of riders that are flooding to transit. Public transit agencies across the nation have identified critical repairs on their systems that are badly needed and ready to go. They can spend this money quickly and productively to put people back to work and meet America’s transit needs," DeFazio said. "It is a smart investment as opposed to a tax cut that will be gone, with little to no benefit to the economy, in a matter of months." The money will create jobs by allowing public transit agencies to execute some of the 10,000 bus options they currently hold. The construction of one bus creates 1,000 work hours before the bus even hits the road. It will also put people back to work by providing transit agencies with funding to build and maintain long over-due capital projects. Nationwide there are almost 800 ready-to-go transit projects worth $15.9 billion that could be put under contract within 90 days. Under the amendment, Oregon will receive approximately $18.6 million in additional transit formula funding, for a total transit funding level of $85.4 million. The bill also contains a buy American provision that requires companies that use funding under the bill to give priority to American made products like steel and concrete. "I am pleased that this amendment passed," DeFazio said. "It will quickly put people back to work, get people to their jobs more efficiently, avoid the costs of congestion and improve our long term economic viability." DeFazio is Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee which has jurisdiction over transit policy. -30-
01.28.2009	January 27, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today voted in favor of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act with significant reservations. DeFazio voted in favor of the legislation because the country urgently needs economic stimulus and he is hopeful the bill will be substantially improved by the Senate. Unemployment in Oregon has reached nearly 10% and it is much higher in rural parts of the state. More Oregonians were out of work last month than any time since 1983. In the face of such dire economic circumstances, job creation legislation and economic stimulus is urgently needed. H.R. 1 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 244 to 188. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today voted in favor of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act with significant reservations. DeFazio voted in favor of the legislation because the country urgently needs economic stimulus and he is hopeful the bill will be substantially improved by the Senate. Unemployment in Oregon has reached nearly 10% and it is much higher in rural parts of the state. More Oregonians were out of work last month than any time since 1983. In the face of such dire economic circumstances, job creation legislation and economic stimulus is urgently needed. H.R. 1 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 244 to 188. "This bill isn’t enough, but it can be a solid down payment on our economic recovery. It will provide real investments that put Americans back to work and rebuild our country. The bill includes $515 million for infrastructure spending here in Oregon. This will put thousands of people in the hard hit construction industry back to work getting our highways back in good repair, making improvements at airports and water systems, rebuilding our transit systems and begin to provide new capacity to get people to work more efficiently and avoid the costs of congestion." The bill also contains $10 billion for major investments in the restoration and maintenance of public lands, public lands infrastructure, wildlife conservation, water resources and hazardous fuels reduction to reduce the threat of wildfires and save money on future firefighting costs. And, it includes $3.25 billion in increased borrowing authority for BPA which will help build critical infrastructure to facilitate renewable and energy efficient projects that BPA has planned but cannot currently build due to a lack of capital and the frozen credit markets. DeFazio requested these additions for Oregon in December and they will create thousands of additional jobs in Oregon and the Pacific Northwest. DeFazio has been critical of the legislation because it does not include enough infrastructure spending and too many tax cuts. Currently, traditional infrastructure spending accounts for only 7.5% of the bill while tax cuts account for 33%. Every $1 billion spent on infrastructure creates 34,779 jobs and $6.2 billion in economic activity. The majority of tax cuts in this bill will provide no economic stimulus. For example, the President’s $500 tax credit will provide about $10 a week in most American’s pockets. Working families can certainly use the money but it is not going to create needed jobs or help rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. The business tax credits included in the bill have also been tried and tested, with little success. They have been recycled from the Bush Administration years and economic studies have proved their ineffectiveness. "Every penny of the $825 billion is borrowed against the future of our kids and grandkids, and so the question is: What benefit are we providing them? What are we doing for the country? It's the difference between real investment that will serve the nation for the next 50 years and tax cuts, and that's a very poor tradeoff," said DeFazio. "I go to my district and people say, 'Yeah, I can use 10 extra bucks a week, but I would rather see more substantial investment.' We've gone through a couple bubbles that were borrowing and consumer-driven. We want a recovery that's solid and based in investment and productivity, and that points us at building things that will serve us decades to come."
01.27.2009	January 26, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) stood up for Oregon workers this week when he ensured that two key legislative initiatives for the Northwest were included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Those projects include $3.25 billion in increased borrowing authority for the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and $10 billion in investment in public lands to reduce the backlog of capital and maintenance projects. The provisions were included as a result of specific requests DeFazio made in December, and will create thousands of jobs in the Northwest. Unemployment in Oregon has reached nearly 10% and it is much higher in rural parts of the state. More Oregonians were out of work last month than any time since 1983. In the face of such dire unemployment, DeFazio’s initiatives, which invest in infrastructure, are particularly important. Infrastructure investments are a proven way to create jobs and stimulate the economy. –Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) stood up for Oregon workers this week when he ensured that two key legislative initiatives for the Northwest were included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Those projects include $3.25 billion in increased borrowing authority for the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and $10 billion in investment in public lands to reduce the backlog of capital and maintenance projects. The provisions were included as a result of specific requests DeFazio made in December, and will create thousands of jobs in the Northwest. Unemployment in Oregon has reached nearly 10% and it is much higher in rural parts of the state. More Oregonians were out of work last month than any time since 1983. In the face of such dire unemployment, DeFazio’s initiatives, which invest in infrastructure, are particularly important. Infrastructure investments are a proven way to create jobs and stimulate the economy. "Infrastructure spending is good bang for the federal buck. It has been proven time and again as a way to create jobs and stimulate and an ailing economy. It is clear that the needs in Oregon are dire and these initiatives are a good way to get our economy going again and get people back to work." DeFazio said. "It is an investment that we can in good conscience pass on to future generations, as opposed to a tax cut that will be gone, with little to no benefit to the economy, in a matter of months." Increasing the borrowing authority for BPA will help build critical infrastructure to facilitate renewable and energy efficient projects that the BPA has planned but cannot currently build due to a lack of capital and the frozen credit markets. Under the plan, BPA is required to repay the U.S. Treasury. The increased borrowing authority will directly and immediately create 1,000 construction jobs in Oregon, a sector that has been particularly hard hit, and will eventually create tens of thousands of jobs in the renewable energy industry in the Pacific Northwest. The inclusion of the BPA provision in the package is the result of broad northwest delegation efforts lead by DeFazio. DeFazio also worked with other senior members of the Northwest delegation to secure $10 billion of major investments for the restoration and maintenance of public lands, public lands infrastructure, wildlife conservation, water resources and hazardous fuels reduction to reduce the threat of wildfires and save money on future firefighting costs. These projects will mean a large federal investment in Oregon which will create thousands of jobs for many of the people who have been laid off in the timber and constructions industries. "These projects will, create real jobs, provide real stimulus, fix problems that have been neglected for years and jump start our economy," DeFazio said. "This is smart and needed investment." The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on Wednesday. -30-
01.16.2009	January 15, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) announced today that the U.S. Forest Service approved his request to reinstate Forest Work Camps as an authorized use of funds from the Secure Rural School (SRS) program, often called county payments. The change will give county governments more flexibility in administering SRS funds for law enforcement and corrections programs. –Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) announced today that the U.S. Forest Service approved his request to reinstate Forest Work Camps as an authorized use of funds from the Secure Rural School (SRS) program, often called county payments. The change will give county governments more flexibility in administering SRS funds for law enforcement and corrections programs. Forest Work Camps are an alternative incarceration program in rural settings for low risk offenders. The majority of the offenders assigned to Forest Work Camps are members of work crews that complete various jobs on Federal forest projects. While incarcerated at the camp, inmates may receive training in first aid, CPR, building trades (such as carpentry, concrete work and painting), and welding. Offenders are also required, depending upon their individual needs, to participate in alcohol and drug treatment or education programs. "This is particularly good news at a time when the County’s budget is stretched so thin. The Forest Work Camps are a cost effective way to get important work done on our public lands. Additionally, they provide low risk offenders with job skills, and ultimately assist them in making a transition back to society," DeFazio said. "This program is a win win for everyone involved. I worked hard to get work camps included in the original law that passed in 2000 and I am pleased that the Administration worked with us to ensure that the program will continue." As a former Lane County Commissioner and advocate for alternative incarceration programs, DeFazio fought to include the Forest Work Camps program in the original Secure Rural Schools legislation as an authorized use of county funds. However, when the Senate included a four year extension of Secure Rural School payments in H.R. 1424, Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Senate dropped language authorizing Forest Work Camps. Without the county payments funding, Lane County would have had to close the work camp. -30-
01.09.2009	January 8, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. DeFazio (OR-04) stood up for Oregon jobs today when he spearheaded an Oregon delegation letter to the Secretary of the Treasury and Chairman of the Federal Reserve, asking them to open up a Federal Reserve lending facility to recreational vehicle loans. This action will encourage banks to make loans to people with good credit for the purchase of recreational vehicles and make loans to recreational vehicle dealers to stock their showrooms. Enabling banks to loan money should help thaw the frozen credit market. The current lending facility provides the same type of loans to auto consumers and auto dealers, but not the recreational vehicle market. Extending this credit would be easy and prudent. Rep. DeFazio (OR-04) stood up for Oregon jobs today when he spearheaded an Oregon delegation letter to the Secretary of the Treasury and Chairman of the Federal Reserve, asking them to open up a Federal Reserve lending facility to recreational vehicle loans. This action will encourage banks to make loans to people with good credit for the purchase of recreational vehicles and make loans to recreational vehicle dealers to stock their showrooms. Enabling banks to loan money should help thaw the frozen credit market. The current lending facility provides the same type of loans to auto consumers and auto dealers, but not the recreational vehicle market. Extending this credit would be easy and prudent. Nationally there are 150,000 recreational vehicle manufacturing jobs which produce $5 billion in annual payroll. Unfortunately, the liquidity crisis has already caused the loss of 80,000 jobs in the industry. In Southwest Oregon the industry provides close to 3,000 jobs but one company, Country Coach started a series of lay offs in December 2007 causing their workforce to fall from about 1,800 workers to about 500. Country Coach warns that, if something is not done about the liquidity crisis, they will have to close altogether. "The recreation vehicle industry is vital to the Oregon economy but, these otherwise healthy companies have been devastated by the economic recession and the lack of credit for both consumers and dealers," DeFazio said. "People are already facing reduced wages, job losses and an increased cost of living. Extending credit from the Federal Reserve will save thousands of Oregon jobs at a time when we most need it." The letter is below. The Honorable Henry Paulson Secretary U.S Department of Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington DC 20220The Honorable Ben Bernanke Chairman Federal Reserve System 20th and C Street Washington DC 20551 Dear Secretary Paulson and Chairman Bernanke: We are aware you have taken multiple actions to restore liquidity to the credit markets and those markets have recently shown signs of improvement. But those improvements have not percolated down to the consumer level and continue to negatively impact viable businesses that absent the credit market crunch would need no government assistance. In Oregon, and across the United States, the recreational vehicle industry has been devastated by the lack of available credit despite the many potential customers with excellent credit scores ready to purchase these American made products. The liquidity crisis has cost 80,000 U.S. jobs in the recreational vehicle industry that could have easily been prevented. Irrational fears and bad decisions by the financial industry should not continue to hold otherwise healthy sections of the economy hostage. As you know, in November of 2008, the Federal Reserve created the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) to make more credit available to consumers by extending credit for credit card loans, student loans, and auto loans. In December, the Federal Reserve included auto dealer floorplan loans, essential for dealers to retain inventory in showrooms. We request that the Federal Reserve include recreational vehicle consumer loans and recreational vehicle dealer floorplan loans in the TALF, allowing this otherwise healthy industry to rebound and protect upwards of 150,000 domestic manufacturing jobs. This is a common sense proposal that will protect good paying domestic jobs at little cost to taxpayers. Adding recreational vehicles to the lending facility poses little risk to the taxpayer. Recreational vehicle buyers tend to be older and higher income households, thus the default rates on recreational vehicle loans is half the default rate of auto loans. We continue to be frustrated by the lack of lending by the financial industry. Despite your efforts including direct injections of capital, expansion of the Federal Reserve lending facilities, and guarantees of deposits, the financial industry continues to hold back. The recent revelation that banks who received TARP funds have not reported how the money was allocated, or even if it was allocated, is extremely troubling. The failure of the banks to follow the intent of Congress has left a void in the economy. Making already existing lending available to the recreational vehicle industry and its consumers would appear to be far more effective than relying on the financial industry to act in the interest of the nation. We look forward to your favorable response that would save thousands of domestic jobs here in our state of Oregon. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Greg Walden Member of Congress Member of Congress Ron Wyden Jeff Merkley Senator Senator Earl Blumenauer David Wu Member of Congress Member of Congress Kurt Schrader Member of Congress
11.26.2008	November 25, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) was pleased today when the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) signed a project construction grant agreement with Lane Transit District (LTD) to provide a total of $32.5 million in federal funding for the 14-station, 7.8-mile Pioneer Parkway extension of the "Emerald Express" (EmX) bus rapid transit system. The grant is from the FTA’s Small Starts program, which DeFazio helped author in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) in 2005. The LTD Pioneer Parkway bus rapid transit (BRT) extension is the first project to complete a grant agreement in the Small Starts program. U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) was pleased today when the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) signed a project construction grant agreement with Lane Transit District (LTD) to provide a total of $32.5 million in federal funding for the 14-station, 7.8-mile Pioneer Parkway extension of the "Emerald Express" (EmX) bus rapid transit system. The grant is from the FTA’s Small Starts program, which DeFazio helped author in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) in 2005. The LTD Pioneer Parkway bus rapid transit (BRT) extension is the first project to complete a grant agreement in the Small Starts program. "LTD’s current bus rapid transit service in Eugene-Springfield has been a huge success and surpassed 20-year ridership projections in the first year," DeFazio said. "The grant agreement being signed today with the Federal Transit Administration to extend EmX along the Pioneer Parkway will provide clean, efficient transit for thousands more people every day and will build on the success of the Franklin corridor BRT service." When completed, the $41.3-million extension will link the existing Franklin corridor BRT route, which opened in January 2007, to major employers along the Pioneer Parkway including Symantec, Royal Caribbean, PeaceHealth, and the North Gateway Mall. By 2010, it is expected that 15,500 people will be employed within one-half mile of the BRT route. Upon completion of the Pioneer Parkway extension, the EmX is expected to carry approximately 3,700 passengers daily. DeFazio is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, which has jurisdiction over Federal transit policy. Next year he will be a key architect of legislation to reauthorize the nation’s surface transportation programs.
11.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio sent a letter to the Surface Transportation Board today urging them to grant an additional 120 days for the Port of Coos Bay to buy the Coos Bay Line. The Board typically grants entities 90 days in which to complete the sale from the time that the Board sets the sale price. However, due to the down turn of the credit markets and the expectation that the Board will set a very expensive price on the Line, 90 days is not enough time to secure public funds with which to buy the Line. DeFazio included $8 million for purchase of the Line in a bill but it is unclear if Congress will be able to act on this legislation before next year. Likewise, the Oregon legislature, which may also provide sources of funding in addition to the $4 million the state has already committed, does not meet again until January. "The Coos Bay Line is critical to the economy of the South Coast. There is broad public support for, and a strong public interest in, the Port of Coos Bay purchasing the Line and the Port deserves the chance to do that," DeFazio said. "However, due to circumstances outside the Port's control – including the impact of the recent economic down turn on the credit markets – they need more time to be able to secure the necessary funds. Therefore, I am urging the Surface Transportation Board to give the Port a 120 day extension to work on this issue." November 7, 2008 The Honorable Anne K. Quinlan Acting Secretary Surface Transportation Board 395 E St. SW Washington, DC 20423 Re: STB Finance Docket No. 35160 Oregon International Port of Coos Bay – Feeder Line Application – Coos Bay Line of the Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad, Inc Dear Secretary Quinlan: I write to encourage the Board to extend its timeline for the Port of Coos Bay to come to a final agreement to purchase the Coos Bay Line from the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP). I was pleased with the Board’s decision of October 31st to grant the Port’s feeder line application in order to force the sale of the Coos Bay Line. However, due to a number of factors outside the Port’s control they are in need of more time to put together the funding to purchase the Line. It is my understanding that once the price has been set by the Board and the Port agrees to move forward, it is typical for the Board to set a deadline of 90 days in which to complete the sale. Because of the recent downturn in the credit markets and the schedule of the Oregon Legislature and Congress, 90 days simply isn’t enough time. The Oregon Legislature, which may provide sources of funding in addition to the $4 million the state has already committed, does not meet again until January. Additionally, while I have inserted language into a bill to provide $8 million to the Port for purchase of the Line, it is unclear whether Congress will be able to act on the bill before the end of the 110th Congress. Finally, the Port has filed an application for a Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing loan with the Federal Railroad Administration, which will take up to 180 days to process. For these reasons I respectfully request the Board consider granting the Port of Coos Bay an additional 120 days in which to complete the sale of the Line. Using public funds to purchase the Coos Bay Line is in everyone’s best interest and the Port deserves the best chance possible to do so. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress
10.17.2008	EUGENE, OR – On Thursday, October 9, 2008, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio will visit Glide High School to present a donation of Nike shoe, apparel and athletic equipment to the student body. The donation is the result of DeFazio’s office winning this year’s Capitol Hill Reuse-A-Shoe Challenge. EUGENE, OR – On Thursday, October 9, 2008, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio will visit Glide High School to present a donation of Nike shoe, apparel and athletic equipment to the student body. The donation is the result of DeFazio’s office winning this year’s Capitol Hill Reuse-A-Shoe Challenge. The Challenge, held annually and sponsored by Nike and the National Recycling Coalition, is a competition amongst the Oregon House delegation to collect as many worn-out athletic shoes as possible. These shoes are recycled and used by leading sports and playground surfacing companies in the creation of new sports and play surfaces around the world. Congressman Peter DeFazio won for the second year running, smashing last year’s record total of 689 with an astounding 1197 pairs this year. Congressman DeFazio receives a product donation from Nike and this year has chosen Glide High School because the school and some of its athletic equipment were damaged in a fire this summer. "I would like to thank Nike and the National Recycling Coalition for organizing this fantastic program again this year," DeFazio said. "Everyone in the 4th CD was inspired by the records set at the Olympic Trials in Eugene earlier this summer and that enthusiasm helped us hurdle to victory in this year’s Re-Use-a-Shoe competition. I am especially pleased with the victory because it means we can donate shoes, apparel, and athletic equipment to Glide High School which recently suffered a fire. This donation will be a tremendous benefit to the school, the students and the entire community." "Reuse-A-Shoe connects our long-term commitments of developing innovative ways of eliminating waste and promoting the physical activity of young people," said Orson Porter, Deputy Director of Government Relations, Nike. "Capitol Hill has proven to be an excellent partner in our efforts to create new places for kids to play and be active. We thank the Oregon delegation for leading this effort." Individuals interested in participating in the Nike Reuse-A-Shoe program can find a list of drop off locations on the Nike Reuse-A-Shoe Web site: www.nikereuseashoe.com. About Nike Reuse-A-Shoe Nike Reuse-A-Shoe is an integral part of Nike Corporate Responsibility and is a unique recycling program that turns worn-out athletic shoes of all brands into Nike Grind, a material used in sports and playground surfaces. Since its inception Reuse-A-Shoe has helped reduce millions of athletic shoes from ending up in landfills each year and has recycled more than 21 million shoes. The recycled shoes are given new life, and are reborn into sports and playground surfaces around the world. For more information on Nike Grind and Nike Reuse-A-Shoe, visit: www.nikegrind.com. About National Recycling Coalition Founded in 1978, the National Recycling Coalition, Inc. (NRC) is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization representing all the diverse interests committed to the common goal of maximizing recycling to achieve the benefits of resource conservation, solid waste reduction, environmental protection, energy conservation, and social and economic development. Its 4,000 members include recycling and environmental organizations; large and small businesses; federal, state and local governments; and individuals. The NRC is dedicated to the advancement and improvement of recycling, and also source reduction, composting and reuse, by providing technical information, education, training, outreach and advocacy services to its members in order to conserve resources and benefit the environment. For additional information about the NRC, please visit www.nrc-recycle.org. Founded in 1978, the National Recycling Coalition, Inc. (NRC) is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization representing all the diverse interests committed to the common goal of maximizing recycling to achieve the benefits of resource conservation, solid waste reduction, environmental protection, energy conservation, and social and economic development. Its 4,000 members include recycling and environmental organizations; large and small businesses; federal, state and local governments; and individuals. The NRC is dedicated to the advancement and improvement of recycling, and also source reduction, composting and reuse, by providing technical information, education, training, outreach and advocacy services to its members in order to conserve resources and benefit the environment. For additional information about the NRC, please visit www.nrc-recycle.org. Individuals wanting to take part in a collection set up by one of the organizations participating in the Nike Reuse-A-Shoe program can find a list of drop off locations on the Nike Reuse-A-Shoe Web site: www.nikereuseashoe.com.
10.03.2008	October 3, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), an ardent and tireless advocate of the vital county payments program applauded today’s passage of the 4-year extension of the program. Regrettably, the extension was attached to the $700 billion bailout boondoggle for Wall Street which DeFazio opposed. The bailout bill, H.R. 1424, passed by a vote of 263-171. DeFazio has been an outspoken critic of the Bush/Paulson plan because it does not address the regulatory lapses that lead to this crisis or the underlying problems in the economy. Additionally, the plan will jeopardize our nation’s financial future by borrowing $700 billion -- $2,300 for every man, woman and child -- and transferring it to Wall Street financiers. DeFazio believes the Bush/Paulson plan is based on a flawed premise: that if the American taxpayers spend $700 billion to buy Wall Street’s toxic assets – a plan pundits have called "trash for cash" – it will create liquidity in our financial markets and will somehow trickle down to Main Street. The House didn’t buy into the premise earlier this week and the Senate simply added a number of popular tax provisions along with a 4-year extension of the county payments program to the bailout bill to increase support for a fundamentally flawed bill. "This is a sad day for America. I believe this is one of the greatest financial mistakes in the history of this country," DeFazio said. "This bill leaves the U.S. taxpayers on the hook for $700 billion to bailout Wall Street speculators, but does nothing to address the sagging underpinnings of our economy like the increasing unemployment rate, the housing and foreclosure crisis, or the huge backlog of investment in critical infrastructure. I fear that we will be back here sooner than anyone expects to deal with the next financial crisis because Congress failed to address the regulatory issues that lead to this crisis along with the underlying problems in the economy." DeFazio tried to improve the Administration’s plan in several ways. DeFazio offered the No BAILOUTS Act, an alternative based on five principles suggested by Bill Isaac, the chairman of the FDIC during the Savings and Loan bailout in the 1980’s. Mr. Isaac believes Congress can address the current crisis with simple changes to SEC rules. Mr. Isaac points out that while we face serious financial challenges today, many banks are still in good shape. This proposal would have allowed Congress to take swift, uncomplicated steps to ensure the financial markets return to working order. In fact, after years of regulatory inaction, the Bush Administration just announced that they intend to voluntarily make some of the changes in DeFazio’s proposal which could help address the liquidity problem. Unfortunately, they still intend to spend all the money Congress just approved. DeFazio also authored an amendment to the bailout that sought to protect taxpayers by requiring the Treasury Secretary to implement a low-cost FDIC program to restore liquidity before spending the $700 billion. He believes it is common sense to try the cheaper program first. DeFazio’s amendment also made sure Wall Street, rather than the taxpayers, paid for the bailout with a minute transfer tax on securities over ten years. Wall Street should ultimately pay the taxpayers back for this bailout. "One of the few redeeming provisions in the bill was the inclusion of a 4-year extension of the county payments program which can stand on its own merits -- providing funding for essential services like law enforcement, teachers, jail beds and other critical public services in rural communities throughout the country. Today’s passage is a long, hard-fought and welcome victory," DeFazio continued. "But, there are 700 billion reasons to vote against this bailout. Borrowing $700 billion for this bailout will limit our ability to deal with the myriad other problems we face such as healthcare, housing, energy independence, job creation and a long-term solution on county payments, as well as other important regional issues." DeFazio has been a long time persistent advocate for the county payments program. Prior to enactment of program, counties received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, DeFazio worked across the aisle to pass the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads, and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands within their borders. The program expired in 2006, under a Republican controlled Congress and Administration. Last year, the Democratic Congress, secured a one-year extension of the program while Congress continued to work on a longer-term solution. DeFazio got an extension included in the House energy bill the end of last year, but it was stripped out by Senate Republicans. And he brought legislation to the floor in June of this year, H.R. 3058, but the measure was defeated due to opposition by House Republicans. Today’s passage represents a welcome and hard fought victory.
10.02.2008	October 2, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), an ardent and tireless advocate of the county payments program, said the addition of the vital county payments extension is not enough to persuade him to vote for a fundamentally flawed bailout that will have long lasting repercussions for individual taxpayers and the country for years to come. The Senate is expected to pass the bailout bill tonight, and the House is expected to take it up on Friday. DeFazio has been an outspoken critic of the Bush/Paulson bailout plan because it does not fix the underlying problems in the economy and is based on a flawed premise: if the American taxpayers spend $700 billion to buy Wall Street’s toxic assets – a plan pundits have called “trash for cash” – it will create liquidity in our financial markets and will somehow trickle-down to Main Street. The Senate added a number of popular tax provisions, including a 4-year extension of the county payments program, to the bailout bill to increase support for a fundamentally flawed bill. DeFazio’s statement on the Senate proposal follows: “Talk about lipstick on a pig -- the Senate has simply added a number of popular tax provisions, and a 4-year extension of the county payments program, to increase support for a fundamentally flawed bailout bill. They added some tax cuts so Republicans would vote for it, and added mental health parity so that progressives and liberals would pay for it. But, it’s the same flawed plan that the House defeated earlier this week. I have fought long and hard to restore the county payments program and every county in my district depends on funding from the program. But, I cannot vote for the Bush/Paulson bailout which will jeopardize our nation’s financial future by borrowing $700 billion -- $2,300 for every man, woman and child and transfer it to Wall Street financiers. We can and must do better. We can make a few modest regulatory reforms which would address the liquidity shortfalls in our banks and free up credit at little or no cost to taxpayers. Borrowing $700 billion for this bailout will limit our ability to deal with the myriad other problems we face such as healthcare, housing, energy independence, infrastructure investments, job creation, and even a long-term solution on county payments, as well as other important regional issues. I have proposed alternative legislation, the No BAILOUTS Act, to address the failures in the financial markets. My alternative would correct the capital shortfalls experienced by many financial institutions and help protect the integrity and quality of the securities market. Furthermore, it could be implemented promptly meeting the demands of the Bush Administration to act immediately without putting the American taxpayer on the hook for billions of dollars. Once Congress addresses the liquidity shortfalls in our financial markets, we can then work to address the broader economic crisis we face. Specifically, Congress must work to resolve the housing crisis across the country and pass a job stimulus bill by making much needed investments in the nation’s critical infrastructure to create jobs and improve our long-term economic viability. That’s the response Main Street America and Oregon counties expect and deserve.” DeFazio’s plan is not in any way based on the Paulson/Bush plan. The Paulson Premise Flawed Simon Johnson, a former chief economist as the International Monetary Fund, stated today in the New York Times of Paulson’s plan, “It’s our view that this package, in a fundamental sense, will not solve the problem.” Other economic analysts noted yesterday that the credit markets around the world were almost entirely dysfunctional even when political leaders and investors assumed that Congress had reached a deal and would easily approve the bailout. There is no reason to believe Paulson’s plan will work. Alternatives DeFazio’s alternative is based on five simple principles suggested by William Isaac, the chairman of the FDIC during the previous worst financial crisis in the United States during the 1980s. Mr. Isaac believes Congress can address the current crisis with simple changes to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. Mr. Isaac points out that while we face serious financial challenges today, many banks are still in good shape. This proposal allows Congress to take swift, uncomplicated steps to ensure the financial markets return to working order. After that, we can work to resolve the housing crisis and pass effective job stimulus. A summary of the DeFazio plan follows: No BAILOUTS Act Bringing Accounting, Increased Liquidity, Oversight and Upholding Taxpayer Security 1 -- Require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to report back to Congress in six months on the effects of its reinterpretation of fair value accounting standards. This bill will require SEC to report back to Congress on the effects of its reinterpretation of fair value accounting standards. Prior to this reinterpretation, the fair value accounting standard marks assets to the market value, no matter the conditions of the market. When no meaningful market exists, as is the current market for mortgage backed securities, this standard requires institutions to value assets at fire-sale prices. This creates a capital shortfall on paper. If financial institutions can use a standard based on the economic value as bank examiners have traditionally done, this could help correct the capital shortfalls experienced by many institutions. 2 -- Require the Securities and Exchange Commission to restricting naked short sells permanently This bill will require SEC to implement a rule that blocks naked selling, selling a stock short without first borrowing the shares or ensuring the shares can be borrowed. Such practices many times harm the companies represented in the sales and hurt their efforts to raise capital. There is no economic value produced by naked short sales, but significant negative effects. 3 -- Require the Securities and Exchange Commission to restore the up-tick rule permanently. This bill will require SEC to implement a rule that blocks short sales without an up-tick in the market. On September 19, 2008, the SEC approved a temporary pause of short selling in financial companies “to protect the integrity and quality of the securities market and strengthen investor confidence.” This rule prevents market crashes brought on by irrational short term market behavior. 4 -- “Net Worth Certificate Program” This bill will require FDIC to implement a net worth certificate program. The FDIC would determine banks with short-term capital needs and the ability to financially recover in the foreseeable future. For those entities that qualify, the FDIC should purchase net worth certificates in these institutions. In exchange, these institutions issue promissory notes to repay the FDIC, counting the amount “borrowed” as capital on their balance sheets. This exchange provides short term capital, with no cash outlay. Interest rates on the certificates and the FDIC notes should be identical so no subsidy is necessary. Participating banks must be subject to strict oversight by the FDIC including oversight of top executive compensation and if necessary the removal of poor management. Financial records and business plans should be subject to scrutiny while participating in the program. In 1982, Congress approved a program, known as the Net Worth Certificate Program, that allowed banks and thrifts to apply for immediate capital assistance. From 1982 to 1993, banks with total assets of $40 billion participated in the program. The majority of these banks, 75%, required no further assistance beyond the certificate program. 5 -- Increase the FDIC Insurance limit from $100,000 to $250,000. The bill will require the FDIC raise its limit to provide depositors confidence that their money is safe and help eliminate runs on banks which are destabilizing to the industry.
09.30.2008	Dear Democratic Colleague: The House of Representatives rejected the $700 bailout yesterday. Distinguished economists across the world have stated it would not have solved the problem at hand. However, we can potentially solve this liquidity problem at little cost to the taxpayer. I am proposing that Congress drop the Paulson Plan, and instead pass the No BAILOUTS Act. The No BAILOUTS Act provides an alternative to the Paulson Proposal to address the current credit crunch. Once Congress addresses the liquidity shortfalls in our financial markets, a Democratic Congress can turn to Democratic solutions to address the broader economic crises we face today. Specifically, Congress can work to resolve the housing crisis across the country and pass effective job stimulus, which is the response Main Street America expects and deserves. While Democrats and Republicans may disagree on the underlying solutions to solve the economic crises we face, the No BAILOUTS Act - a regulatory based proposal - has the potential for significant bipartisan support. The Paulson Premise Flawed Simon Johnson, a former chief economist as the International Monetary Fund, stated today in the New York Times of Paulson’s plan, “It’s our view that this package, in a fundamental sense, will not solve the problem.” Other economic analysts noted yesterday that the credit markets around the world were almost entirely dysfunctional even when political leaders and investors assumed that Congress had reached a deal and would easily approve the bailout. There is no reason to believe Paulson’s plan will work. Alternatives We have credible alternatives to the Paulson/Bush $700 billion gamble. William Isaac, the chairman of the FDIC during the previous worst financial crisis in the United States during the 1980s, believes Congress can address the current crisis with simple changes to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. Mr. Isaac points out that while we face serious financial challenges today, many banks are still in good shape. This allows Congress to take swift, uncomplicated steps to ensure the financial markets return to working order. After that, we can work to resolve the housing crisis and pass effective job stimulus. Today I am offering an alternative to the Wall Street bailout that will correct the capital shortfalls experienced by many financial institutions and help protect the integrity and quality of the securities market. My plan could be implemented promptly meeting the demands of the Bush Administration to act immediately without putting the American taxpayer on the hook for billions of dollars. No BAILOUTS Act Bringing Accounting, Increased Liquidity, Oversight and Upholding Taxpayer Security 1) Require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to require an economic value standard to measure the capital of financial institutions. This bill will require SEC to implement a rule to suspend the application of fair value accounting standards to financial institutions, which marks assets to the market value, no matter the conditions of the market. When no meaningful market exists, as is the current market for mortgage backed securities, this standard requires institutions to value assets at fire-sale prices. This creates a capital shortfall on paper. Using the economic value standard as bank examines have traditionally done will immediately correct the capital shortfalls experienced by many institutions. 2) Require the Securities and Exchange Commission to restricting naked short sells permanently This bill will require SEC to implement a rule that blocks naked selling, selling a stock short without first borrowing the shares or ensuring the shares can be borrowed. Such practices many times harm the companies represented in the sales and hurt their efforts to raise capital. There is no economic value produced by naked short sales, but significant negative effects. 3) Require the Securities and Exchange Commission to restore the up-tick rule permanently. This bill will require SEC to implement a rule that blocks short sales without an up-tick in the market. On September 19, 2008, the SEC approved a temporary pause of short selling in financial companies “to protect the integrity and quality of the securities market and strengthen investor confidence.” This rule prevents market crashes brought on by irrational short term market behavior. 4) “Net Worth Certificate Program” This bill will require FDIC to implement a net worth certificate program. The FDIC would determine banks with short-term capital needs and the ability to financially recover in the foreseeable future. For those entities that qualify, the FDIC should purchase net worth certificates in these institutions. In exchange, these institutions issue promissory notes to repay the FDIC, counting the amount “borrowed” as capital on their balance sheets. This exchange provides short term capital, with not cash outlay. Interest rates on the certificates and the FDIC notes should be identical so no subsidy is necessary. Participating banks must be subject to strict oversight by the FDIC including oversight of top executive compensation and if necessary the removal of poor management. Financial records and business plans should be subject to scrutiny while participating in the program. In 1982, Congress approved a program, known as the Net Worth Certificate Program, that allowed banks and thrifts to apply for immediate capital assistance. From 1982 to 1993, banks with total assets of $40 billion participated in the program. The majority of these banks, 75%, required no further assistance beyond the certificate program. 5) Increase the FDIC Insurance limit from $100,000 to $250,000. The bill will require the FDIC raise its limit to provide depositors confidence that their money is safe and help eliminate runs on banks which are destabilizing to the industry. Sincerely Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
09.29.2008	The Executive Compensation Limits have Major Loopholes:They are no Band-Aid for a Bailout September 29, 2008 Dear Democratic Colleague: If you are considering voting for the bailout because the bill requires the CEOs of Wall Street to take a pay cut, you will be sorely disappointed. I found seven loopholes that will protect their outrageous paychecks and golden parachutes. Imagine how many more loopholes the Wall Street lawyers will find to protect their CEOs pay check. Oppose the bailout. 1- Executive Compensation Loophole #1: Limits on incentives and bonuses can only be set on corporations that we directly purchased assets from and receive an equity stake from. (Sec. 111 (b)1) [Page 29-30] 2- Executive Compensation Loophole #2: Limits on golden parachutes are avoided if a corporation only sells the government under $300 million worth of bad assets through an auction. (Sec 111(c) [Page 31-32] 3- Executive Compensation Loophole #3: Limits on golden parachutes on current employees are avoided if a corporation only sells the government its bad assets through an auction. (Sec 111(c) [Page 32] 4- Executive Compensation Loophole #4: Limits on golden parachutes are not applied to any corporation that upon dumping is bad assets on the taxpayer returns to profitability. (Sec 111(c)) [Page 32] 5- Executive Compensation Loophole #5: No limits on corporate deductions for executive salaries under $500,000. (Sec 302(d)1) [Page 99] 6- Executive Compensation Loophole #6: New limits on corporate deductions for executive salaries are waived if assets acquired from corporation are under $300 million. (Sec 302(a) [Page 100] 7- Executive Compensation Loophole #7: New limits on corporate deductions for executive salaries are waived if assets acquired from corporation are purchased directly. (Sec 302(a) [Page 100] Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
09.29.2008	September 28, 2008 Dear Colleague. The Democratic leadership has done everything they could to negotiate a responsible bill, but the Bush/Paulson bailout was based on a false premise. Paulson purports that a $700 billion injection of liquidity at the top by assuming “illiquid assets” will trickle down and shore up the underlying economic and housing woes. Furthermore, the Bush/Paulson/Republican Congress insisted that the conditions added to the bailout be riddled with loopholes. 1 - The Recoupment Clause Will Not Recover Any Lost Funds: It merely says a future President 5 years hence shall propose a plan to Congress to possibly recoup any losses. (Sec. 134) [Page 89] [1] 2 - Foreign Company Loophole: The bailout has been opened up to foreign companies with “significant operations in the United States”(Sec. 3 (5)) [Page 4] 3 - Foreign Central Bank Loophole: The bailout has been opened up to foreign central banks that hold bad assets from failed or defaulted financial institutions. (Sec. 112) [Page 32] 4 - Taxpayers Can be Saddled with Assets of Any Type: The bailout has been expanded to include car loans, auto loans and any other financial instrument as determined by the Secretary. (Sec 3 (9)(B) [Page 5] 5 - Severely Limited Judicial Review: Courts are prohibited from issuing any injunctions or relief on the basic premise of the legislation and the conflict of interest rules. (Sec. 119(a)2(A)) [Page 58] 6 - Executive Compensation Loopholes: Multiple loopholes for corporations to escape the limitations on golden parachutes, incentives, bonuses, and corporate deductions for executive salaries. (Sec. 111 and Sec. 302) [Page 29-32 and 98-109] 7 - No Fix of the Underlying Regulatory Failures: The next administration is required to send numerous reports to Congress. Unfortunately, Wall Street will have already received its bailout and have no incentive to support new reforms. (Sec. 105 [Page 17] 8 - $700 Billion Cap Loophole: The Secretary can sell assets and continue to buy more assets as long as the total purchase value remains under $700 billion. Any losses during the sale of assets are not considered. (Sec 115(b)) [Page 40] 9 - Foreclosure Mitigation is Voluntary: The taxpayers are being saddled with all the risk, but the lender is “encouraged” to minimize foreclosures (Sec. 109(a)) [Page 24] 10 - Full Authority to Spend $700 Billion: Congress has a mere 15 calendar days to object to the Secretary spending the second half of the $700 billion bailout. The President can veto the measure requiring the customary 2/3 to override. Besides this bailout, when is the last time we passed anything that fast? (Sec. 115(a)) [Page 39-40] 11 - Insurance Rates are Not Required to Follow Risk: The Secretary “may” (as opposed to the mandatory “shall”) set insurance premiums based on risk. Not setting premiums based on risk could leave the insurance trust fund seriously underfunded and leave taxpayers liable. (Sec. 102 (c)2) [Page 10] 12 - Money-Making Mergers: A loophole allows corporations to use a merger or acquisition to buy up troubled debt at below market rates and sell to the taxpayer at the higher government rate. (Sec. 101(c)) [Page 9] Please oppose the bailout. There are many other less expensive alternatives that can restore liquidity to the market. Sincerely Peter DeFazio
09.28.2008	OPPOSE THE BUSH/PAULSON BAILOUT September 27, 2008 Dear Democratic Colleague: Democratic Leadership has done a tremendous job trying to modify the Bush/Paulson bailout into something acceptable, but the fundamental premise of the plan is flawed, thus it should not be supported. Many credible economists, without Wall Street conflicts of interest, have challenged the necessity of the Bush/Paulson bailout and offered many other less expensive options. The Bush/Paulson Bailout is Unnecessary: Over 200 economists wrote to Congress stating “As economists, we want to express to Congress our great concern for the plan proposed by Treasury Secretary Paulson”[1]. The letter went on to raise the issues of fairness, ambiguity, and the long-term effects. The former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp in the Reagan Administration wrote, “I have doubts that the $700 billion bailout, if enacted, would work. Would banks really be willing to part with the loans, and would the government be able to sell them in the marketplace on terms that the taxpayers would find acceptable?”[2] Paul Krugman wrote, “You don’t want to bet $700 billion on wishful thinking,”[3] commenting on the ability to find an acceptable price. And James Galbraith, an economist at the University of Texas, has asked “Now that all five big investment banks -- Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- have disappeared or morphed into regular banks, a question arises. Is this bailout still necessary?”[4] Alternative Proposals: I don’t subscribe to the view that there is only one way save the investment banks and the liquidity of the market. But in deference to the perceived notion that we must act now, alternative proposals are being brushed aside. The danger really lies in a poorly constructed bailout. We can avoid this by seriously debating the alternative proposals. William Isaac, the former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp argues “The banks do not need taxpayers to carry their loans. They need proper accounting and regulatory policies that will give them time to work through their problems.”[5] He has proposed a "net worth certificate" program modeled on what Congress enacted in the 1980s to resolve the savings and loan crisis. The program would require no subsidy and no cash outlay. James Galbraith has proposed that we eliminate the “pointless” $100,000 cap on federal deposit insurance to prevent bank runs. He also proposes a National Infrastructure Bank, making bond revenue available in a revolving fund for capital improvements and creating jobs.[6] And many economists have argued that directly helping mortgage holders save their houses would be astronomically cheaper and a more effective in resolving this crisis. And helping the average working American restructure their mortgage will increase the value of Wall Street’s depreciated assets. As the New York Time opinioned recently: “We could make a strong moral argument that the government has a greater responsibility to help homeowners than it does to bail out Wall Street. But we don’t have to. Basic economics argues for a robust plan to stanch foreclosures and thereby protect the taxpayers …”[7] Let the benefits of any bailout, paid for by taxpayers, rise up to the banks, rather than hope the benefits trickle down. After all, we are Democrats, and we overcame the flawed notion of trickle down theory twenty years ago. We Cannot Afford a $700 Billion Bailout: Another serious consequence is the $700 billion hole in the budget deficit this bailout will create. If we Democrats have the House, Senate and White House next year, we will be unable to initiate new proposals that we have campaigned on, reverse the failed Bush polices of the past eight years, and chart a new course for our nation. For years, we Democrats have been championing the goals of universal health care, middle class tax relief, investments in education and our nation’s infrastructure, and a real commitment to dealing with climate change and energy independence. Now, after 8 years of gross mismanagement and wrongheaded priorities, we are about to have the Bush administration in one of its last acts, put those goals out of reach for years. The Bush tax cuts blew the surplus created by the last Democratic Administration and the Bush/Paulson bailout will prevent the next democratic administration from truly implementing its change mandate. It Must Be Paid For: If Democrats continue to back the basic questionable premise of the Bush/Paulson bailout, then we must pay for it. The $700 billion is to protect Wall Street investors, therefore the same Wall Street investors should pay for this infusion of taxpayer money. I have proposed a minimal securities transfer tax of ¼ of one percent. A securities transfer tax would have a negligible impact on the average investor and provide a disincentive to short-term traders. Similar tax proposals have been supported by many esteemed economists such as Larry Summers, John Maynard Keynes and Nobel prize winners Joseph Stiglitz and James Tobin. There is considerable precedent for this. The United States had a similar tax from 1914 to 1966. The Revenue Act of 1914 levied 7a 0.2% tax on all sales or transfers of stock. In 1932, Congress more than doubled the tax to help finance various programs during the Great Depression. In 1987, Speaker of the House Jim Wright offered his support for a financial transaction tax. And today the UK has a modest financial transaction tax of 0.5 percent. Our Constituents are Not Fooled: If your district is anything like mine, there is an overwhelming opposition to the $700 billion Bush/Paulson bailout. My office has been inundated by thousands of phone calls, emails, and faxes in opposition to the Bush/Paulson bailout. In contrast, I can count on one hand the number constituents who called in favor of the Bush/Paulson bailout. We must stand with the working class America we have always fought for. Democrats cannot walk away from our base to join hands with President Bush and Wall Street. And we cannot let the Republicans disavow President Bush and appeal directly to our base of working America. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress [1] https://faculty.chicagogsb.edu/john.cochrane/research/Papers/mortgage_protest.htm [2] Washington Post. A Better Way to Aid Banks. William M. Isaac. Sept 27, 2008. A19. [3] New York Times. Paul Krugman. Where are the Grown-Ups? Sept., 26, 2008. A27. [4] Washington Post. A Bailout We Don't Need. James K. Galbraith. Sept. 25, 2008. A19 [5] Washington Post. A Better Way to Aid Banks. William M. Isaac. Sept 27, 2008. A19. [6] Washington Post. A Bailout We Don't Need. James K. Galbraith. Sept. 25, 2008. A19 [7] New York Times. Editorial. What About the Rest of Us? Sept., 26, 2008. A26.
09.27.2008	September 27, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) defended rural Oregon counties when he included funding for Secure Rural Schools legislation (also know as "county payments") in the stimulus bill being considered by the House of Representatives today. Unfortunately, after having spent much of the day complaining that a reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools legislation was not included in tax legislation or economic stimulus bills under consideration, Republicans objected to the program’s addition to the bill. Consequently, the Secure Rural Schools reauthorization was excluded from the package voted on by the House. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) defended rural Oregon counties when he included funding for Secure Rural Schools legislation (also know as "county payments") in the stimulus bill being considered by the House of Representatives today. Unfortunately, after having spent much of the day complaining that a reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools legislation was not included in tax legislation or economic stimulus bills under consideration, Republicans objected to the program’s addition to the bill. Consequently, the Secure Rural Schools reauthorization was excluded from the package voted on by the House. "This is extraordinarily disappointing to me, and devastating to counties in Southwest Oregon," DeFazio said. "For the second time in four months, House Republicans have killed an opportunity to reauthorize this program. This is political posturing, plain and simple. After two days of asking the Majority to waive the rules of the House and attach county payments to various bills. Chairman Obey asked for unanimous consent to include county payments in the economic stimulus package, but Republicans objected. This program expired when the Republicans controlled the House, the Senate, and the White House, in June they voted against a 4 year reauthorization of the bill as a stand alone measure because it would have required oil companies to pay more royalties and now, today, the Republicans have stone-walled this unanimous consent motion and the program will very likely end." "The end of county payments means 8,000 teachers, thousands of sheriffs, police, and public safety officers have been laid off across America. People will die because these payments aren’t being extended," DeFazio continued. "I am shocked, I am stunned, I am devastated." The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act expired in 2006 on President Bush’s watch with a Republican-controlled Congress. Last year, the Democratic Congress gave counties a one-year extension while we continue to work on a longer-term solution. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads, and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands within their borders. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, counties received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services.
09.23.2008	September 22, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives today. –Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives today. "2007 was a great year on Wall Street. Bonuses of $38 billion to themselves. Secretary Paulson came to us after just having received a $39 million bonus from Goldman Sachs. He came here to the applause of the Wall Street elites and others. His first crisis was Bear Stearns. He bailed out Bear Stearns, had them acquired with federal guarantees. But he said "Don't worry; the fundamentals of our economy are sound". Then along came Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. He wanted Congress to give him an unlimited line of credit. But don't worry, it's only "a crisis of confidence." Their "fundamentals are sound." They probably won't even need the line of credit. Congress went along with that. I voted no. "The fundamentals of America are sound," he said. A month later he had to take over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Unprecedented--accumulating maybe $5 trillion of debt on to the books of the federal government all at once--but not to worry, we'll work our way through it. The fundamentals are sound. Then there was Lehman Brothers. Just one firm, he says. Let them go. Let the market work. Our fundamentals are sound. Two days later, A.I.G.-- big company, a lot of money in assurance, annuities, too big to fail. He broke a 50-year precedent and put federal money into an insurance company. But not to worry this is just a little blip. "Our fundamentals are sound." Then Thursday night he has a closed door meeting with congressional leadership and he says, if we don't do a bailout plan tomorrow, the economy is going to collapse. Wait a minute. This guy has been consistently wrong and out of touch or he's been lying to Congress and the American people about how sound our fundamentals are. Now he wants us to trust him with the keys of the treasury and no restrictions on how he would spend the money in his next bailout. He is compromised in my opinion because of his relationship with Goldman Sachs and Wall Street not with Main Street America. My small banks are not clamoring for this. They are still making loans. They are saying "there's a credit crunch". Guess what? If you got good credit in Oregon, you go to the credit union, or you go to the small bank and they can sell the loan to the federal government. That is Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac thanks to Mr. Paulson. But he's saying to us here, "I got a deal for you." Let’s think of Henry "Hank" Paulson as a realtor. Here’s the deal. He has a great house he wants to sell you. The thing about that is he can't give you an appraisal on the house, as there are no market comparables. And he can't tell you what it's going to cost. But it is a great deal for you. That is the bailout he is proposing. Secretary Paulson wants to take this junk from Wall Street that no one understands and put it on the federal books. But, what if we spend, or rather borrow, $700 billion and the market continues to go down? That’s what the Asian market said yesterday. Wait a minute. Sounded good at first but where's the U.S. going to get the $700 billion? Who is going to lend it to them? Or are they going to print it and cause inflation? What if it doesn't work? What will they do then? We aren't dealing with some of the fundamental underlying problems that we have. Now I find out by reading the Washington Times that they have very quietly folded in all student loan debt, all automobile debt, and all credit card debt. So, the federal government is now not only going to be in the housing business, it's not only going to be in the insurance business, suddenly we are going to be in the repo business--out there collecting cars around America so we can sell them to try and get back some of the taxpayers' money. This is nuts. Congress should not do this this week. We need to understand what's going on. They can't be slipping in little things like this and trying to jam this bill through. This is way too much like the rush to war when Congress was under pressure before elections. Forget about the elections. This is about the future of the United States of America and our financial system. If we have to stay here every day in October to understand this and get it right."
09.22.2008	September 21, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC –Legislation by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) to transfer ownership of the Cape Arago Lighthouse to the Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians passed the House of Representatives today by voice vote. –Legislation by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) to transfer ownership of the Cape Arago Lighthouse to the Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians passed the House of Representatives today by voice vote. "This bill transfers to the Confederated Tribes a piece of land which has significant cultural, historic, and spiritual importance," said DeFazio. "The Coast Guard no longer needs the Cape Arago Lighthouse for navigation purposes and this will put an historic piece of land to good use while protecting and preserving its cultural significance." The Cape Arago Lighthouse was built in 1934 and is located near Charleston on tiny Chief’s Island. The Coast Guard permits the Confederated Tribes to use the site for tribal ceremonies and as a cemetery but it is closed to the public. The Tribes have sought ownership since 1991 to restore and preserve the site. However, the U.S. Department of the Interior maintains that the tribes do not qualify to assume ownership under the National Historic Lighthouse Preservation Act.
09.19.2008	NEWS FROM U.S. REPRESENTATIVE PETER DeFAZIO Fourth Congressional District, Oregon Contact: Molly Simmons—(202) 225-6416 September 19, 2008 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE DEFAZIO WARY OF ADMINISTRATION’S ECONOMIC BAIL OUT PROPOSAL Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) released the following statement today on the American economy. “I just finished and hour and a half conference call with Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Paulson. Plain and simple, they are asking Congress to obligate the U.S. taxpayers to hundreds of billions of dollars with no strings attached and no assurances that the money will ever be recaptured or that this won’t happen again. That is not a plan. We need to first make certain that this never happens again. We need major reform. There must be consequences for the people who created this crisis with a surtax or a wealth tax targeted at wealthy investors and Wall Street executives. We need to cancel their golden parachutes and their bonuses. Beyond that, we need to provide something for Main Street Americans in this package – a strong stimulus package to put people back to work rebuilding our infrastructure and other critical projects for this country. If we can borrow hundreds of billions to bail out Wall Street, how about a little bit to help our struggling economy and county payments and basic services for average Americans. They tell us there is no money but suddenly they’re asking for unlimited sums of money. We need to reinstate the law that the Republican Congress repealed that opened the door between the vaults of our savings banks and federally insured accounts, and the investment banks. I voted against deregulation in 1999 because I said it would bring about a disaster, and it has. We need to deal with this issue of too big to fail. If they’re too big to fail, they’re too big to exist. We need to start enforcing anti-trust laws. We need a comprehensive solution before we put forward one penny of hard earned tax-payers dollars, particularly before we borrow in the name of the American tax-payers. I’m going to fight for a package that makes sense and will fix this problem and will prevent problems like this from ever happening again.”
09.19.2008	September 18, 2008 Washington, DC—Today Representatives Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Mike Thompson (CA-01), along with 10 other members of Congress wrote to President Bush urging him to distribute the full $170 million in disaster aid to fisherman suffering from the closure of the salmon fishing season on the West Coast. The National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced this week that it would be releasing only $100 million of the $170 million in funds appropriated by Congress this summer. Given that the Administration attempted to reallocate $70 million earlier this year to pay for cost over runs associated with the 2010 Census, members are concerned that they again intend to reallocate the remaining money to fix the mistakes made by Bush’s political cronies. "I am absolutely astounded that the Administration is not distributing the full $170 million Congress allocated in the Farm Bill to deal with the salmon disaster. Instead, they are trying to steal $70 million from salmon fishermen and give it to an incompetent defense contractor," DeFazio said. "The fishing community of Oregon is already suffering because of the flawed Bush policies in the Sacramento River basin. They should not have to suffer again because the President has hired people in Florida who can’t count. We’ve been there before." "The Bush Administration has once again put politics ahead of people. Because of the Administration’s disastrous policies Pacific coast fishing families have been devastated," said North Coast Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA). "Congress appropriated $170 million in federal disaster relief, but this latest proposal by the Bush Administration to withhold a large portion of these funds shows no regard for hardworking fishing families nor their livelihood." On May 1, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) decided to close the salmon fishery in California and most of Oregon, after the Pacific Fishery Management Council recommended the closure. The closure is due to the unprecedented decline in salmon returning to the Sacramento River, which typically makes a significant contribution to the Oregon fishery. Unfortunately, since these depleted stocks will be co-mingled with other stocks, the season must be almost entirely closed. The closure signals the worst commercial and recreational fisheries failure in Oregon history, and is the first ban on salmon fishing since the industry began 150 years ago. Washington, Oregon, and California estimated damages to the fishing industry to total $290 million dollars. Short-term assistance is critical so that fishers can make boat payments, insurance payments, mortgage payments, and keep food on the table. In June, the Office of Management and Budget, which puts together the President’s annual budget, sent Congress a revised budget request for more funding to carry out the 2010 Census. The White House is requesting $546 million more for the Census, and has proposed using $70 million of the $170 million in salmon disaster money allocated in the Farm Bill, to pay for the cost over-runs. The Administration entered into a contract with the Harris Corporation, a Florida defense contractor, to conduct the Census, but the contractor has run into serious cost over-runs in the amount of hundreds of millions of dollars. Congressmen DeFazio and Thompson, along with 13 other members of Congress, sent President Bush a letter at that time which was largely ignored by the Administration. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing on the Harris Corporation and the problems with the Census on June 11, 2008. https://oversight.house.gov/story.asp?ID=2001 The text of the letter sent to President Bush is below: September 18, 2008 The Honorable Jim Nussle, Director Office of Management and Budget Washington, DC. 20503 Dear Director Nussle: We write with increasing concern regarding full disbursement of the $170 million appropriated by Congress to compensate fishers for the unprecedented closure of the West Coast salmon fishery. Earlier this week, NOAA Fisheries (NOAA) indicated that it would be dispersing $100 million of the $170 million appropriated by Congress to provide aid to affected fishers. NOAA further indicated that the remaining $70 million may be disbursed if further need was demonstrated, and "if Congress did not act to rescind the funds." We have been informed that NOAA is not dispersing the full amount now because OMB has not yet released the funds. We find this unconscionable. First, as we expressed to you in June, it is unacceptable that the Administration has proposed – and now seems to be trying to implement – a plan to take disaster aid from the fishing communities of California, Oregon and Washington to pay for cost overruns associated with this Administration’s questionable contract with the Harris Corporation to complete the 2010 census. Indeed, the reason why Congress had to step up to provide this emergency aid to fishers in our states is because of this Administration’s unlawful and shortsighted policies regarding the Pacific Northwest’s rivers. Second, we have received no satisfactory explanation for why OMB can legally withhold funds that Congress has appropriated for a specific purpose such as this. The states of Oregon, Washington, and California have followed the process set out in the Magnuson-Stevens Act, which provides for emergency assistance. Now that NOAA has accepted the application from Pacific Fishery Management Council, and has approved the $170 million grant to the states, OMB is legally obligated to release the funds so that affected fishers may receive the aid they desperately need. The law provides for no further "assessment of need," and we are aware of no precedent for OMB’s alleged "phased" disbursement of these funds. To us, the fact that OMB is withholding $70 million, when it proposed in June to reprogram this exact same amount to pay for the Administration’s mistakes with its census contract, smacks of political gamesmanship. Playing games with the livelihood of fishers across the Pacific Northwest is yet another sign that the Bush Administration has no commitment to protect our valuable river systems, and no interest in helping the fishing communities and economies that rely on them. It is also completely unacceptable. We insist that you comply with congressional intent and immediately release the full $170 million in federal disaster aid for Pacific Northwest fishers. Sincerely, Baird Blumenauer Capps DeFazio Eshoo Farr Hooley Matsui Thompson, Mike Woolsey Wu Miller, George
09.19.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today, along with 28 members of Congress, sent a letter to House Speaker Pelosi calling on her to include critical county payments funding in the upcoming continuing resolution that leadership is currently considering. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today, along with 28 members of Congress, sent a letter to House Speaker Pelosi calling on her to include critical county payments funding in the upcoming continuing resolution that leadership is currently considering. "It is crucial that county payments be included in the continuing resolution," DeFazio said. "Counties in southwest Oregon have already laid off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy -- we’ve lost sheriffs patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services. It is critical that something be done now. Curry and Josephine counties could go bankrupt if the funding isn’t extended." DeFazio is pursuing a one-year Secure Rural Schools reauthorization in the Continuing Resolution as insurance to ensure an extension of the program. The Senate is currently working on a multi-year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools as part of a broad renewable energy tax incentives package, but has yet to approve that legislation or send it to the House for consideration. Because the Senate legislation may not become law, whereas the Continuing Resolution must be passed by Congress in order to keep the federal government and essential programs operating, it is prudent to seek inclusion of the one-year reauthorization in the must-pass spending bill. DeFazio supports the Senate measure, and eagerly anticipates its consideration in the House. The Secure Rural Schools Act expired on President Bush's watch with a Republican controlled Congress in 2006. Last year, the Democratic Congress gave counties a one-year extension while DeFazio continued to work on a longer-term solution. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. The letter is below. September 19, 2008 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H-232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Steny Hoyer House Democratic Majority Leader H-107 Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable David Obey Chairman, House Appropriations Committee 2314 Rayburn House Office Bldg. Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Madam Speaker, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Chairman Obey: We write to you today to ask your support for inclusion of a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program in the Continuing Resolution (CR) that Leadership is currently considering. A year ago, Congress authorized a short term extension of the Secure Rural Schools legislation on the emergency supplemental appropriations bill, which would not have happened without your leadership. Despite our best efforts, we have not been able to enact a multi-year extension of this program, so we are now seeking your support for inclusion of a one-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools legislation in the CR. The Secure Rural Schools program aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 42 states. Most of these counties have fiscal years that begin in July. The expiration and loss of federal Secure Rural Schools funds has resulted in layoffs of critical county personnel and the cessation of a number of county services. These counties have closed libraries, curtailed sheriffs patrols, released prisoners from jails, ceased search and rescue operations, eliminated mental health care services, and several are considering declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. There is no other option for these counties other than a federal reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools law. Under many states’ laws, some of which require super-majorities, the earliest counties can attempt to raise taxes to get out of their budget shortfalls is November, long after the jails, schools, and critical infrastructure projects have shut down. Even so, there is no guarantee that voters will raise taxes during these tough economic times. Therefore, Congress must make good on its century-old promise, and give these counties a bridge until we can elect a new President who understands the value of rural communities. At that time, we will be better positioned to enact a multi-year ramp-down of the Secure Rural Schools program. Again, we ask for your assistance in securing a one-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools legislation in the Continuing Resolution. Thank you again for your invaluable assistance in reauthorizing the critically important Secure Rural Schools program in the past, and we look forward to continuing to work with you in the very near future to bring this process to a close. Sincerely, Baca Baird Barrow Berkley Blumenauer Boswell Boucher Brown, Corrine Childers DeFazio Filner Herseth Sandlin Hirono Larsen Matheson McNerney Michaud Pastor Pickering Rahall Ross Smith, Adam Taylor, Gene Thompson Thompson, Bennie G. Udall, Mark Wilson, Charlie Wu
09.19.2008	Washington, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) released the following statement today on the American economy. September 18, 2008 Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) released the following statement today on the American economy. "I just finished and hour and a half conference call with Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Paulson. Plain and simple, they are asking Congress to obligate the U.S. taxpayers to hundreds of billions of dollars with no strings attached and no assurances that the money will ever be recaptured or that this won’t happen again. That is not a plan. We need to first make certain that this never happens again. We need major reform. There must be consequences for the people who created this crisis with a surtax or a wealth tax targeted at wealthy investors and Wall Street executives. We need to cancel their golden parachutes and their bonuses. Beyond that, we need to provide something for Main Street Americans in this package – a strong stimulus package to put people back to work rebuilding our infrastructure and other critical projects for this country. If we can borrow hundreds of billions to bail out Wall Street, how about a little bit to help our struggling economy and county payments and basic services for average Americans. They tell us there is no money but suddenly they’re asking for unlimited sums of money. We need to reinstate the law that the Republican Congress repealed that opened the door between the vaults of our savings banks and federally insured accounts, and the investment banks. I voted against deregulation in 1999 because I said it would bring about a disaster, and it has. We need to deal with this issue of too big to fail. If they’re too big to fail, they’re too big to exist. We need to start enforcing anti-trust laws. We need a comprehensive solution before we put forward one penny of hard earned tax-payers dollars, particularly before we borrow in the name of the American tax-payers. I’m going to fight for a package that makes sense and will fix this problem and will prevent problems like this from ever happening again."
09.16.2008	September 15, 2008 Washington, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio stood up for Americans suffering from the high price of fuel today when he voted in favor of H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy and Consumer Protection Act. The package will bring down gas prices, protect taxpayers, invest in clean renewable energy, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, open parts of the Outer Continental Shelf for off-shore drilling and provide an American-owned energy policy that the Bush-McCain Republicans have failed to deliver for the past eight years. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote 236 to 189. "For the last six years we have labored under the Bush-Cheney energy plan which has driven up gas prices and made us more dependent on foreign oil," DeFazio said. "This bill breaks the oil dependence and the enslavement by OPEC. It moves us towards energy independence on domestic resources and new technologies and new green jobs. This is real and much needed progress." The package will move America forward toward energy independence in the long term while providing relief to American consumers and the economy in the short term. The measure also: requires Big Oil to pay what it owes taxpayers and eliminates their subsidies; creates good-paying, green jobs here in America with $18 billion in tax cuts to spur American energy independence; establishes a 15% national renewable electricity standard by 2020; and promotes the inclusion of new renewable sources of energy, including the utilization of biomass from Oregon’s federal forests; protects the coast of Oregon from oil and gas development. At the end of FY 2008, the current moratorium will expire and there are not the votes to renew the moratorium, thus leaving the Oregon coast exposed to oil and gas development from 3 miles and out. This measure would protect Oregon’s treasured coast for the first 100 miles.
09.05.2008	September 5, 2008 WASHINGTON—The Department of Transportation announced today that it expected the Highway Trust Fund to reach a zero balance sometime in September, and that the Administration has withdrawn a threat to veto a bill that would infuse the Trust Fund with additional cash. The announcement prompted a call by Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman James L. Oberstar (D-Minn.) and Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Chairman Peter A. DeFazio (D-Ore.) for the Senate to take quick action on the bill. —The Department of Transportation announced today that it expected the Highway Trust Fund to reach a zero balance sometime in September, and that the Administration has withdrawn a threat to veto a bill that would infuse the Trust Fund with additional cash. The announcement prompted a call by Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman James L. Oberstar (D-Minn.) and Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Chairman Peter A. DeFazio (D-Ore.) for the Senate to take quick action on the bill. Statement from Chairman DeFazio It's about time this Administration accepted the magnitude of the looming crisis facing the Highway Trust Fund and stopped being a roadblock to a solution. The House has long been aware of this impending problem and acted to combat it by passing legislation to add $8 billion in general funds to the Highway Trust Fund earlier this summer. Unfortunately, this measure has been held up by irresponsible veto threats by the Administration and has not yet become law. I'm glad the Administration has for once set aside its blind ideology and come on board with what Congress has been trying to do for months. The additional funds provided by H.R. 6532 will help the Trust Fund weather the shortfall in projected revenues and continue to allow funds to flow to the States for needed surface transportation projects. Statement from Chairman Oberstar In July, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6532, the Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act, to address the impending shortfall in the Highway Trust Fund, by a bipartisan vote of 387-37. The bill restores $8.017 billion in motor vehicle user-fee revenues to the Trust Fund. Despite the overwhelming House vote in support of this legislation, the Administration threatened to veto it. Today, the Secretary of Transportation recognized the dire circumstances of the Highway Trust Fund, and reversed the Administration’s irresponsible opposition to restoring these user fee revenues. The Trust Fund is approaching a zero balance and, beginning next week, the Federal Government will be unable to pay all of the bills submitted by the States for reimbursement under the Federal-aid highway program. The Federal Government will be required to begin paying interest on unpaid bills. In addition, I fear that States will begin to slow their investments in highway construction because of the cash flow problems of the U.S. Department of Transportation. Given that the United States has lost more than 600,000 jobs this year and the unemployment rate is the highest it has been in five years, we cannot afford to lose one more family-wage construction job. I am encouraged that the Administration has finally reversed its position and is urging the Senate to pass the bill as soon as possible. I urge Senate Republicans to release their hold on the bill. We must enact this critical legislation early next week to avoid slowdowns or reduction in infrastructure investment, and the loss of American construction jobs.
07.31.2008	July 31, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, advocated for the comfort of the traveling public today when his legislation, H.R. 5788, the HANG UP Act (Halting Airplane Noise to Give Us Peace Act) passed out of the full House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure by voice vote. "With airline customer satisfaction at an all time low, this is not the time to consider making airplane travel even more torturous. Polls show the public overwhelmingly doesn’t want to be subjected to people talking on their cell phones on increasingly over-packed airplanes," DeFazio said. "However, with Internet access just around the corner on U.S. flights, it won’t be long before the ban on voice communications on in-flight planes is lifted. The HANG UP Act, would ensure that financially strapped airlines don’t drive us towards this noisome disruption in search of further revenue." The European Union recently announced that it will allow people to talk on their cell phones while a plane is in-flight on all commercial airlines. Additionally, U.S. airlines are already experimenting with in-flight Internet access. In-flight voice communication poses a potential revenue source for airlines both because they could charge passengers to sit in a non-talking section and charge people to use their phones. H.R. 5788 would insure that voice communication does not happen on U.S. flights. In-flight voice use of cell phones is overwhelmingly opposed by consumers. Sixty-three percent of those responding to a poll sponsored by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA and the National Consumers League were against it. Just 21% of people favored removing restrictions on using cell phones in flight. Aside from the obvious courtesy issues, flight attendants have safety concerns with in-flight voice communication. If voice communication is permitted, passengers are likely to not pay attention to safety announcements and flight attendants could be forced to referee diputes resulting from loud conversations. The legislation only prohibits voice communications in-flight but passengers would still be able to access the Internet, e-mail and send text messages as these technologies become available on airplanes. "The free market wasn’t adequate to regulate smoking on planes and it won’t be sufficient to regulate cell phones either," DeFazio said. "I am pleased that we are taking steps to stop this disruption before it becomes an issue for American consumers." The legislation now heads to the full House of Representatives for consideration. Companion legislation was introduced as an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration re-authorization in the Senate.
07.30.2008	July 29, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, Rep. James Oberstar (D-MN), Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. John Mica (R-FL), Ranking Member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Rep. John Duncan (R-TN), Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit today stood up for the safety of Americans when they introduced H.R. 6630, legislation to stop the Department of Transportation (DOT) from fully opening the U.S. border to Mexican trucks. "As we approach the end of the one year Mexican truck demonstration program, I have introduced bipartisan legislation that will terminate the program and force DOT to fully evaluate the results before it rushes to open the border. All along DOT has said this would be a one year pilot so I’m holding them to their word," DeFazio said. "DOT needs to look at how much this pilot has cost and the impact it has had on overall motor carrier safety. This Administration has been hell-bent on opening up our border but over the past year has failed to show they can adequately inspect Mexican carriers while also maintaining a robust U.S. safety inspection program. The safety of the traveling public must come first -- before the Administration's fantasies about free trade." "When DOT insisted on moving ahead with a one-year pilot program, it disregarded Congressional objections and concerns over safety. Strong bi-partisan majorities in both the House and Senate tried to shut the program down, but DOT forged ahead, in violation of the spirit of the law and against the express will of Congress," Oberstar said. "The Secretary has said in very clear terms that DOT’s experiment would be limited to one year. This bill will ensure that the Administration keeps its word." Last year, Secretary of Transportation Peters announced the Administration's intent to implement a one-year pilot program to allow up to 100 trucking companies from Mexico full access to U.S. highways. However, DOT has made clear from the beginning that at the conclusion of the one-year pilot the US-Mexico border will be permanently open to Mexican trucks without any analysis of the impacts of the program. For instance, while the demonstration program is supposed to terminate after one year, DOT issued provisional operating authority to pilot participants for 18 months. There has been a strong bi-partisan Congressional objection to the program dating back to before the pilot began, stemming from Mexico’s less stringent regulations on hours-of-service, vehicle safety, and driver training and licensing. In May of 2007, the House voted overwhelmingly, 411-3, to pass H.R. 1773, the Safe American Roads Act of 2007, legislation that would have extended the pilot program to three years and ensured that DOT establishes a process to analyze the impact of allowing Mexican trucks on our nation's roadways, before the border is completely opened. Provisions were also included in the FY 2007 Iraq War Supplemental spending bill (P.L. 110-28) to impose strict measures to ensure that the pilot program adheres to safety and security guidelines and that its progress is assessed by an independent panel. And last July, the House approved an amendment offered by Rep. DeFazio to prohibit the use of federal funds to implement the pilot program. The amendment was offered to H.R. 3074, the FY 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Act and was approved by a voice vote. Similar language was included in the final FY 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act (P.L. 110-161), however, the Administration chose to ignore that language and continued with the pilot anyway. "Given the record of DOT, without further Congressional action it can be assumed they will fully open the border to Mexican trucks without addressing significant safety concerns," DeFazio said. "This legislation is necessary for the protection of the traveling American public."
07.29.2008	July 28, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that the Surface Transportation Board (STB) will hold a public hearing in Oregon in August on the adverse impact an abandonment of the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) Coos Bay Line would have on the state, particularly the South Coast. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that the Surface Transportation Board (STB) will hold a public hearing in Oregon in August on the adverse impact an abandonment of the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) Coos Bay Line would have on the state, particularly the South Coast. "This hearing will provide the Board with more information about the devastating impact of the proposed abandonment," DeFazio said. "For decades, the rail line has provided a crucial transportation connection between Coos Bay and Eugene. Several major employers in the area depend on the rail line to get their goods to market and an abandonment of the rail line will mean the loss of jobs for many local citizens. There is widespread and significant community interest in the future of the Coos Bay line and I envision a large turnout at the hearing." Last September, CORP embargoed the Coos Bay line with little more than 24 hours notice. The line provides critical rail access to businesses on the South Coast and is a key transportation link for the Port of Coos Bay. Since the rail closure the average shipper along the Coos Bay Line now pays 10 – 15 percent more in shipping costs because they have to use trucks. The Port of Coos Bay has since filed an application with the Surface Transportation Board in Washington, DC to purchase the Coos Bay Line. Earlier this month CORP filed an application with the STB to abandon the line. In its decision today the STB agreed to consider CORP’s abandonment application and the Board will gather information on the local impact of any abandonment in a public hearing. DeFazio advocated for the hearing earlier this month by sending a letter to the Secretary of the STB. The letter is below. The date and location of the hearing will be announced on Friday, August 1st. DeFazio’s Letter to STB: July 23, 2008 The Honorable Anne K. QuinlanActing SecretarySurface Transportation Board395 E St. SWWashington, DC 20423 Re: Docket No. AB-515 (Sub-No. 2X), Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad, Inc. – Abandonment and Discontinuance – in Coos, Douglas, and Lane Counties, OR (Coquille to Vaughn) Re: Docket No. AB-515 (Sub-No. 2X), Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad, Inc. – Abandonment and Discontinuance – in Coos, Douglas, and Lane Counties, OR (Coquille to Vaughn) Dear Secretary Quinlan: I am writing to you regarding the Abandonment Application filed on July 14, 2008 by the Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad (CORP) for the Coos Bay Line. I have concerns with the proposed abandonment and I request that the Surface Transportation Board hold a public hearing in Eugene, Oregon to discuss the impact that the loss of rail service would have to this rural region. The proposed abandonment of the Coos Bay Line is a major concern for my congressional district, particularly the south coast of Oregon. For many decades, the rail line has provided a crucial transportation connection between towns such as Coquille, Coos Bay, North Bend, Reedsport, and the rest of the United States. The area is not located on an Interstate highway, does not have easy access to I-5, and includes several major employers who depend on the rail line. Any harm to these employers from an abandonment of the rail line will necessarily mean the loss of jobs for local citizens. When local citizens lose their rail-dependent jobs there is a great likelihood that additional businesses, such as retail and restaurants, will be adversely affected. In short, there is a ripple effect from the lumber and other businesses that depend on the rail line. Due to the far-reaching consequences of CORP’s proposed abandonment, I respectfully request that the Surface Transportation Board hold a public hearing in Eugene, Oregon so that community leaders, employers, and all local citizens can voice their concerns. This meeting would provide the Board with more information regarding the broad impacts of the proposed abandonment. There is widespread and significant community interest in the future of the rail line and I envision a large turnout at any such meeting. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress
07.23.2008	July 23, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) stood up for tax payers today when he voted against H.R. 3221, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act. Unfortunately, the bill passed the House of Representatives 272 to 152. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) stood up for tax payers today when he voted against H.R. 3221, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act. Unfortunately, the bill passed the House of Representatives 272 to 152. "Because of the vital role Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play for home owners and housing in America, we could have made it clear the government will back them against market speculators, while protecting tax payers at the same time. Unfortunately, this bill is set up to extend credit without reform or restriction, putting tax payers at risk unnecessarily," DeFazio said. DeFazio shares concerns over the recent housing crisis. Over the past year the House has taken up many measures to address the crisis. He has voted in favor of important legislation to ensure that homeowners at risk of losing their homes can refinance into affordable loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), to overhaul FHA and increase its loan limits, to create a new regulator for the Government Sponsored Entities (GSEs), and to create and finance an affordable housing trust fund. However, today’s legislation linked these laudable goals with a Bush Administration plan to shore up the stock price of the GSEs and possibly expose the American Taxpayer to a bailout of these companies. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the Treasury Department’s plan to extend an unlimited line of credit to Freddie and Fannie could cost $25 billion dollars. DeFazio urged leadership to include taxpayer protections in the legislation that would prohibit GSEs from paying dividends to stockholders if Treasury extends the line of credit. Unfortunately, the administration balked at such guarantees stating that such protections would scare off capital investment from the markets. "They would rather protect their buddies on Wall Street then the taxpayer," DeFazio said. "In 1979 when Congress rescued Chrysler they prohibited Chrysler from paying any dividends on common or preferred stock while Federal loan guarantees were outstanding. The markets didn’t baulk then, the plan worked and Chrysler rebounded. Similar sound protections would work to ensure the vital role of the GSEs while protecting the taxpayer’s wallet."
07.23.2008	July 22, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, today voted to improve America’s aging infrastructure and to prevent the loss of thousands of living wage jobs when he supported H.R. 6532, the Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 387 to 37. "This is not the time to reduce our pathetic investment in infrastructure. There are 150,000 structurally deficient and functionally obsolete bridges on our roads today, trucks are being rerouted because of weight restrictions, and people are wasting hours and high priced gas idling in traffic," Chairman DeFazio said. "Without H.R.6532, Oregon was facing a loss of $139 million in funds for highway projects and nearly 5,000 living wage jobs. I am pleased the House has acted to restore these funds to the Highway Trust Fund." H.R. 6532, the Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act, restores $8 billion to the Highway Trust Fund to prevent a projected revenue shortfall in the coming fiscal year. Such a shortfall has the potential to lead to a devastating $14 billion reduction in Federal highway investment in Fiscal Year 2009. This would have a disastrous impact on transportation projects across the country and cost as many at 380,000 jobs. Both the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation have determined that this bill does not add to the national debt. DeFazio has been a long time advocate for transportation investment. As Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit he will be a key architect of the next highway and transit authorization bill, set to be written and debated in 2009.
07.22.2008	July 21, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted in favor of two pieces of legislation today to prevent burdensome regulations on recreational boaters and commercial fishing vessels from going into effect. Due to a Federal court ruling, starting September 30th boaters will be required to obtain a permit from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel. Without a permit, operators of a vessel would be subject to fines of up to $32,500 per day. This means that in order to even rinse a boat, a boater would need a permit or suffer steep fines. For small commercial fishers, the regulations would make it difficult to even fish, a potentially disastrous predicament for the coast of Oregon. The legislation passed today places a two-year moratorium on National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit requirements for all vessels less than 79 feet long and all fishing vessels regardless of length. The NPDES permit waivers passed the House of Representatives today as two separate pieces of legislation, S. 2766 addresses recreational boats and S. 3298 applies to commercial fishing vessels. Both pieces of legislation passed the House unanimously by voice vote. "I was pleased to vote for this common sense legislation," DeFazio said. "Stopping this onerous regulation from going into affect will help Oregon commercial fishermen to keep their businesses afloat. The permit exemption was critical because without it commercial fisherman would have to go through layers of red tape just to do their job. While it is important to protect our waterways, we must also balance the needs of industry. This is a good compromise." The bills also passed the Senate today and are on their way to the President for signature.
07.21.2008	July 20, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that he has secured language in legislation, H.R. 3248, to make $8 million in Federal funding available to help the Port of Coos Bay purchase the Coos Bay Line from the Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad (CORP). He also commended the Oregon Transportation Commission for allocating $4 million in matching funds to purchase and rehabilitate the line. – Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that he has secured language in legislation, H.R. 3248, to make $8 million in Federal funding available to help the Port of Coos Bay purchase the Coos Bay Line from the Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad (CORP). He also commended the Oregon Transportation Commission for allocating $4 million in matching funds to purchase and rehabilitate the line. DeFazio, Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee, originally secured the $8 million in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy For Users (SAFETEA-LU) to help the Port make repairs to a rail bridge on the Coos Bay Line in 2005. However, CORP embargoed the line last September and now plans to abandon it altogether. "It doesn’t make sense to continue to repair a bridge on a line that is being abandoned, so I made the decision to change the purpose of that $8 million to help the Port acquire and rehabilitate the line," DeFazio said. The Port has made enough repairs to the bridge with funding secured by DeFazio in the 1998 highway bill, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, that the bridge will last another ten years. Combined with the $4 million in state funding, the Port of Coos Bay will have access to $12 million to help purchase and rehabilitate the rail line. "I am pleased that I could work with the Port of Coos Bay, the Oregon Department of Transportation, and local shippers to reallocate this funding," DeFazio said. "This vital rail line is an imperative component of the South Coast economy." H.R. 3248, which contains the language for Coos Bay, is currently under consideration in the Senate. Once the Senate passes it, the bill will be voted on by the House of Representatives, before going to the President for his signature. Last September, CORP closed the Coos Bay rail line with little more than 24 hours notice. This line provides critical rail access to businesses on the South Coast and is a key transportation link for the Port of Coos Bay. Since the rail closure the average shipper along the Coos Bay Line now pays 10 – 15 percent more in shipping costs because they have to use trucks. The Port of Coos Bay has since filed an application with the Surface Transportation Board in Washington, DC to purchase the Coos Bay Line.
07.17.2008	July 17, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) helped author legislation, H.R. 6515, the Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands (DRILL) Act, which unfortunately failed to pass the House of Representatives today due to Republican opposition. This legislation would have increased domestic production and could have reduced gas prices. "Americans are suffering as a result of high gas prices while oil companies continue to reap obscene profits," DeFazio said. "I was proud to help author the DRILL Act would help force oil companies to increase domestic production and bring relief to consumers." The DRILL Act takes several steps to increase domestic production and lower gas prices. First, it mandates that the Bush Administration expedites expanded drilling in the single biggest pool of oil in the United States, the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPRA), which holds at least 10.6 billion barrels of recoverable oil. Despite the rapid increase in oil prices, the industry has only managed to drill 25 exploratory wells in the reserve and they have yet to begin to build a link to the nearby Prudhoe Bay pipeline. The legislation also requires the President to facilitate construction of a natural gas pipeline. A pipe line would allow America to pursue the Pickens Plan. Developed by T. Boone Pickens, the billionaire oilman from Texas, the plan promotes a massive expansion of wind power and the substantial replacement of oil with more environmentally-friendly natural gas. A pipeline is critical to our energy security and its assembly would be among the largest construction projects ever undertaken and create good-paying American jobs. In the already developed areas of the North Slope there is a tremendous amount of natural gas which is either not being utilized or being re-injected into the land. A pipeline would drive down the price of natural gas and is critical to our ability to use this fuel. The DRILL Act would also ban the export of Alaskan oil. In 2000, about 7% of crude oil production from the Alaskan North Slope was exported to South Korea, Japan, and China. A ban on exportation was in place from 1973 to 1995 and reinstating the ban would ensure that American oil helps the American people. DeFazio first proposed to end the exportation of U.S. oil in 2000. Finally, the DRILL Act requires oil companies to diligently develop leases on federal lands (onshore and offshore) that they are already holding. The Department of the Interior has calculated that 82% of the natural gas and 79% of the oil on the Outer Continental Shelf is located in areas that are currently open for leasing. The bill ensures oil companies are not withholding supply and artificially driving up the price of oil. "The United States uses 25 percent of the world’s oil production, but holds only three percent of the world oil reserves. We cannot drill our way out of this crisis over the long–term, but we can provide some shorter term relief by increasing domestic production," DeFazio said. "More needs to be done to bring down the price of fuel immediately, such as the President releasing oil from the strategic petroleum reserve and Congress acting to end rampant speculation of oil prices but, the DRILL Act is a step in the right direction towards affordable oil prices while more sustainable, renewable sources are being developed." "I am also committed to using the United State’s technological advantage to foster change in how we use energy. We need to advance renewable fuels, fuel cells, and advanced battery technologies," DeFazio concluded.
07.10.2008	July 9, 2008 Washington, DC – Today Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Darlene Hooley (D-Ore), Greg Walden (R-Ore), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore) and David Wu (D-Ore) introduced a resolution, H.Res.1321, honoring the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program. For almost 15 years, this program has worked to promote self-confidence and fellowship among at-risk youth. It has been awarded the United Service Organizations’ award for "Best Overall Program" three times in the past six years. "I am proud to honor this outstanding organization," said Rep. Blumenauer. "Since 1994 it has impacted the lives of thousands of Oregonians who were likely to drop out of high school. Most of these kids went on to earn a high school degree or its equivalent. This is another example of Oregon leading the way with a program that truly makes a difference in the lives of our youth." More than 3,500 Oregon teens likely to drop out of high school or engage in destructive behavior have entered the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program, which is both free and voluntary. "I am proud that the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program is being recognized for its tremendous success in helping at-risk kids," said Rep. DeFazio. "For the last 15 years they have been proving that kids who struggle in school or act out are not a lost cause. They have a remarkable record of helping young Oregonians get back on track. I have been inspired by the stories of participants about the impact the program has had on their lives and I hope the example they have set will be emulated around the nation. " "Oregon Youth Challenge is the best in the nation, period," said Rep. Hooley. "For the past decade, OYC has set the pace for the national programming, leading the nation each year in awards that are a tribute to the fine young men and women who participate. And no mention of Oregon Youth Challenge should go without echoing the name of Brigadier General Michael Caldwell: Oregon Youth Challenge would not be there if not for him. His tenacity helped overcome the many challenges in building a program that nobody had heard of or understood. Budgetary threats nearly closed it several times, but Mike always found ways and means to keep it alive." "I am truly impressed with the efforts of the Oregon Youth Challenge Program in providing our state's at-risk youth with the discipline, skills and opportunities they need to lead positive, healthy lives," said Rep. Walden. "Since 2001, the program has received numerous national awards for the outstanding work of its cadre and staff. Although it serves all of Oregon, I'm proud to honor a program that calls the high desert of the Second District home." "This program provides new hope to young people who were struggling to complete high school," said Rep. Wu. "I have met some of the bright kids who are turning their lives around thanks to this innovative program. I am confident that, with the skills that they learned from the National Guard, they and the other program graduates will create bright futures for themselves."
06.27.2008	June 27, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) took steps today to reign in oil and gas prices and provide relief to American consumers. Oil currently costs over $130 a barrel and a gallon of gas costs, on average over $4 a gallon. To combat the impact this is having on Americans, DeFazio cosponsored two pieces of legislation: H.R. 6251, the Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act and H.R. 6052, the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act. He also voted in favor of H.R. 6377, the Energy Markets Emergency Act. Two bills, H.R. 6052 and H.R. 6377, passed the house by 322 to 98 and 402 to 19 respectively. "Today, as the price of oil reached a record high of $140 a barrel, I was proud to take action to help Americans," DeFazio said. "The legislation passed today will set America on the path toward energy independence." DeFazio is an original cosponsor of H.R. 6251 which compels the oil industry to start drilling or lose permits on the 68 million acres of undeveloped federal oil reserves which they are currently warehousing. The lack of development is keeping domestic supply lower and prices high. There are 68 million acres of leased but inactive federal land that have the potential to produce an additional 4.8 million barrels of oil and 44.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas each day. This legislation would nearly double total U.S. oil production, increase natural gas production by 75 percent, and put an end to oil companies artificially driving up prices by hording leases. It would also cut U.S. oil imports by more than one-third, reducing America’s dependence on foreign oil. This legislation was blocked today by Republicans, who sided with big oil instead of hard working Americans, but it is expected that the House will consider it again soon. H.R. 6052, the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act, gives grants to mass transit authorities to lower fares for commuters pinched at the pump and expand transit services. Transit use is up 32 percent since 1995 and in the first quarter of 2008 Americans took 2.6 billion trips on public transportation, 3.3% more than the first quarter of 2007. It is clear that ridership is up due to fuel prices and this legislation aims to aid people taking public transit. Finally, H.R. 6377, the Energy Markets Emergency Act takes steps to curb excessive speculation in the energy futures markets, which experts have noted is driving up the price of a barrel of oil. If the commodities markets, particularly the oil market, were subject to appropriate regulation, credible industry experts say that American consumers would see oil prices cut up to 50% in 30 days. "The U.S. needs to move quickly to a sustainable energy future, but until we get there we need to tap the resources we have and we need to block price manipulation. Its about time the federal government took actions to defend the American consumer, rather than subsidize big oil," DeFazio said. "The legislation considered today was a giant step in the right direction."
06.25.2008	June 24, 2008 Washington, DC— Today Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) was alarmed by yet another undercover investigation by the Human Society of the United States (HSUS) that exposed deplorable treatment of dairy cows at a New Mexico auction house. The cows sold at the auction yard were destined for slaughter and many were processed at the Palo Duro plant which is a top supplier of ground beef to the National School Lunch Program. Today Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) was alarmed by yet another undercover investigation by the Human Society of the United States (HSUS) that exposed deplorable treatment of dairy cows at a New Mexico auction house. The cows sold at the auction yard were destined for slaughter and many were processed at the Palo Duro plant which is a top supplier of ground beef to the National School Lunch Program. "Earlier this year, we learned of the horrendous treatment of dairy cows at the Westland plant in California," DeFazio said. "Given the high profile nature of that investigation, and the subsequent criminal conviction of the plant manager from that facility, I am absolutely appalled that this continues to occur." In North America, more than 80% of confirmed cases of mad cow disease – 13 out of 16 – are found in dower animals. Downed cattle should never enter the food supply due to the risk mad cow poses to human health, but a loophole in current law allows some exceptions. The investigation into operations at the Portales Livestock Auction in Portales, New Mexico, revealed mistreatment of "downed" cattle, animals too sick or injured to walk into the auction ring for sale. Under State law, these animals must be given veterinary treatment or be humanely euthanized. Instead, they were shocked with cattle prods, dragged with chains, kicked, poked in the eyes, and pushed with tractors into standing positions so that they could enter the ring. After the Westland investigation earlier this year, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) indicated that it would take swift action to close the "downer cow" loophole that allowed some downer cows to be slaughtered for human consumption. However, USDA has clearly not yet closed that loophole, although it did close the Westland facility. The HSUS investigation reveals that many cows sold at the Portales auction house are slaughtered at Caviness in Hereford, Texas, and further processed at Caviness’ Palo Duro plant in Amarillo, Texas. Now that Westland is out of business, Palo Duro is the top supplier of ground beef to the National School Lunch Program. HSUS’s investigation ended at the Portales auction yard, and did not investigate whether the downed cows sold at Portales in fact entered the food supply. "How can this sort of thing continue to occur?" DeFazio asked. "After Westland, the livestock industry went on record saying that the industry needs to clean up its act, but that Westland was an isolated incident. Now, it’s clear that neither thing is true: the industry hasn’t cleaned up its act, and Westland wasn’t an isolated incident." Last month, HSUS documented similar abuse at four other auction houses across the country. In March 2007, DeFazio introduced the Farm Animal Stewardship Act, which would require producers who supply meat, dairy, and egg products to the federal government to meet a set of basic standards for raising farm animals. The legislation would also require the government to provide adequate veterinary care, including prompt treatment of injuries or euthanasia for a sick or injured animal. "The USDA must act immediately to close the downer loophole," DeFazio continued. "And, it is time for Congress to lead by example and pass my bill so that inhumane treatment of animals is no longer tolerated, and tainted meat isn’t served in lunchrooms across the country."
06.20.2008	June 19, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) stood up for civil liberties today when he voted against H.R.6304, the FISA (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) Amendments Act. The legislation granted de facto immunity to telecommunications companies that collaborated with the Administration’s unlawful surveillance program, a sticking point for Congressman DeFazio because it violates the Constitution. Under the law, District courts will be forced to dismiss pending cases upon a certification from the Attorney General that the telecommunications companies were asked for their compliance, regardless of whether the request was legal. The legislation also allows the government to collect massive amounts of information on individuals even if the FISA court denies a wiretap application. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) stood up for civil liberties today when he voted against H.R.6304, the FISA (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) Amendments Act. The legislation granted de factoimmunity to telecommunications companies that collaborated with the Administration’s unlawful surveillance program, a sticking point for Congressman DeFazio because it violates the Constitution. Under the law, District courts will be forced to dismiss pending cases upon a certification from the Attorney General that the telecommunications companies were asked for their compliance, regardless of whether the request was legal. The legislation also allows the government to collect massive amounts of information on individuals even if the FISA court denies a wiretap application. "We do not need to trample over the U.S. Constitution in order to protect Americans from terrorism. That is akin to sinking the boat so the enemy can’t sink it," DeFazio said. "This law gives the President extraordinarily broad power to spy on anyone at anytime." Controversy around the bill has been whether or not to grant immunity to telecommunications companies who help the NSA spy on innocent Americans. The President has refused to show most Members of Congress the classified documents that provide the basis for telecommunications companies’ immunity protection. Instead he says "trust me." "Congress should not have let these corporations off the hook without knowing what role they played in the President’s wiretapping program. One can only conclude that the President’s bid for immunity for telecommunications companies is a self serving effort to protect his Administration," DeFazio said. "I was deeply disappointed that this compromise legislation still leaves the communications of law abiding Americans vulnerable to a run-amok, over-stepping government, with little or no recourse. It is for this reason that I strongly opposed it."
06.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent another letter to Speaker Pelosi about the urgent need to include critical county payments funding in the upcoming emergency spending bill. Included with the letter, DeFazio sent letters from 157 school boards, districts and administrators highlighting the critical need for this vital funding. High-level administration sources have indicated that a one year extension of the program in the supplemental would not force a veto threat. However, they have yet to put anything in writing supporting this stance. The President recently threatened to veto a four year extension of the program. "Though the possibility that county payments will not force a veto by the President is encouraging, I am asking him to confirm this fact in writing. I have been lobbying Congressional leaders to include the funding in the supplemental but, they say they cannot if it will trigger a veto," DeFazio said. "Counties in southwest Oregon are about to start laying off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy -- we’re losing sheriffs patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services. We are at the 11th hour and it is critical that something be done now. Curry and Josephine counties could go bankrupt if the funding isn’t extended." The letter is below: June 18, 2008 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Madam Speaker: Last week, I wrote to you to bring to your attention the Administration’s possible acceptance on inclusion of a one year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (Secure Rural Schools) in the Senate-passed version of H.R. 2642, the war supplemental appropriations bill for FY 2008. Today I write to you about the continued support of this one year extension among educators, and to update you regarding my conversations about the Administration’s position on the one year county payments extension. As I mentioned last week, high level Administration officials have indicated that the President will not oppose or issue a veto threat on the bill if a one year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools is included in the supplemental. That position was verbally reiterated again this week. Although I have been trying to get a written commitment from the Administration to this effect, I have not yet been able to do so, and I fear that time is running out on our counties. I appreciate that you need a written confirmation of the Administration’s position on the Secure Rural Schools extension, given the President’s recent veto threat on H.R. 3058, a four year reauthorization of the program.A one year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools is desperately needed. The Secure Rural Schools program aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 42 states. Just this week, I received more than 160 letters from school boards, teachers, national educational associations, principals, superintendants, and other educators from around the country – including 18 from California – pleading with us to pass the one year extension. I’ve included copies of these letters for your review, which relate in excruciating detail what the loss of Secure Rural Schools will mean to the children of their states. It is truly heartbreaking. Reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools program, if even for just one year, will ensure that rural school children continue to have access to a quality education, libraries remain open, and public safety is guaranteed. Thank you again for your invaluable assistance in reauthorizing the critically important Secure Rural Schools program in the past, and I look forward to continuing to work with you in the very near future to bring this process to a close. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
06.18.2008	June 17, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, four members of the Oregon delegation announced two new pieces of legislation that will provide a long-term stewardship plan for Mt. Hood, Oregon Caves and Wild Rogue. Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley, and David Wu introduced the "Oregon Treasures" package following several years of extensive negotiations and input from the public and stakeholders. The Mt Hood proposal would add approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness to the Mt. Hood National Forest, 79.6 miles of new Wild and Scenic Rivers, and approximately 34,550 acres as National Recreation Areas. The Oregon Caves and Wild Rogue legislation will add approximately 4,070 acres to the Oregon Caves National Monument and designates 142.9 miles of 40 waterways as "wild," "scenic," or "recreational" under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. "For years we’ve worked to create the Oregon Treasures package," said Congressman Blumenauer. "Thousands of committed citizens, organizations, Native Americans and businesses have made clear that we must do more to protect Oregon’s treasured places. These two bills will protect Oregon’s iconic Mt. Hood, renowned Rogue River and Oregon Caves. The Mt Hood bill also creates a unique transportation plan to address the challenges of getting to and from the mountain." "Our beautiful state has so many places that are worthy of congressional recognition. The caves alone represent some of the rarest geology in the Pacific Northwest, and hide some of its greatest mysteries, like the River Styx, which flows below ground through the caves," said Congressman DeFazio. "I am thrilled to be able to work with my democratic Oregon colleagues to bring protection to just a few of them. From the tributaries of the Wild Rogue, to the Cave Creek watershed, to the iconic Mt. Hood, we have an historic opportunity to leave a natural legacy for the next generation. " "Our ‘Oregon Treasures’ bill includes 60,265 acres of wilderness and about 45 miles of wild and scenic river in my district, which represents the majority of the bill," said Congresswoman Hooley. "Together, members of the delegation have worked to protect iconic landscapes and waterways significant to current Oregonians and critical to the health and quality of life of future Oregonians. In addition to preserving beautiful places, we take steps to protect the drinking water sources for millions of Oregonians, provide fish and wildlife habitat for a broad array of species, and leave a natural legacy for our children. I’m proud of what we have accomplished together, and look forward to making it law." "Whenever we protect any part of the natural environment, we are doing so for the benefit of every single Oregonian, and every single American," said Congressman Wu. "Expanding Oregon’s wilderness areas, scenic waterways, and National Recreation Areas will ensure that we preserve our iconic natural features for successive generations to enjoy. In addition, today’s legislation provides economic development opportunities for Oregon communities. By designating more protected land and waterways, we are providing all outdoor-lovers with additional recreation opportunities and helping tourists continue to make substantial contributions to the Oregon economy." Mount Hood Legislative outline Wilderness/Wild and Scenic RIVERS/national recreation areas- The legislation would add approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness to the Mt. Hood National Forest. The proposed Wilderness areas are: Badger Creek Wilderness Additions: Badger Creek Additions, Bonney Butte, Boulder Lake Bull of the Woods Wilderness Additions: Bull of the Woods Additions Clackamas Wilderness: Big Bottom, Clackamas Canyon, Memaloose Lake, Sisi Butte, South Fork Clackamas Mark O. Hatfield Wilderness Additions: Gorge Face, Larch Mountain Mount Hood Wilderness Additions: Barlow Butte, Bluegrass Ridge, Elk Cove/Mazama, Richard L. Kohnstamm Memorial Area, Sand Canyon, Sandy River Additions, Twin Lakes, Tilly Jane,White River, Cloud Cap Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness Additions: Alder Creek, Eagle Creek, Hunchback Mountain, Inch Creek, Mirror Lake, Roaring River, Salmon River Meadows, Salmon Huckleberry Keyhole Lower White River Wilderness The legislation would add 79.6 miles of new Wild and Scenic Rivers. They are: South Fork Clackamas River Eagle Creek Middle Fork Hood River South Fork Roaring River ZigZag River Fifteenmile Creek East Fork Hood River Collawash River Fish Creek The legislation would designate approximately 34,550 acres as National Recreation Areas (NRA). They are: Mount Hood NRA Fifteen Mile Creek NRA Shellrock Mountain NRA Crystal Springs Watershed Management Unit- The bill would establish a special resources management unit for the Crystal Springs Watershed to ensure protection of water quality and quantity. The Crystal Springs Watershed serves residential citizens, communities, irrigation districts, and diverse ecosystems on the north side of Mount Hood with clean water. The bill would establish a special resources management unit for the Crystal Springs Watershed to ensure protection of water quality and quantity. The Crystal Springs Watershed serves residential citizens, communities, irrigation districts, and diverse ecosystems on the north side of Mount Hood with clean water. Land Conveyances – The legislation would direct the Forest Service to engage in three land exchanges. The first, between Mt. Hood Meadows and the U.S. Forest Service, would facilitate the exchange of 120 acres of Forest Service managed land in Government Camp for 770 acres of private land at Cooper Spur. The legislation would require a new appraisal to be conducted, and mandate compliance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition and Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. In addition, the legislation would facilitate land exchanges between the Port of Cascade Locks and the Forest Service, and between Clackamas County and the Forest Service. Construction activities on lands conveyed shall comply with nationally recognized building and property maintenance codes or nationally recognized codes for development in the wildland-urban interface. The legislation would direct the Forest Service to engage in three land exchanges. The first, between Mt. Hood Meadows and the U.S. Forest Service, would facilitate the exchange of 120 acres of Forest Service managed land in Government Camp for 770 acres of private land at Cooper Spur. The legislation would require a new appraisal to be conducted, and mandate compliance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition and Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. In addition, the legislation would facilitate land exchanges between the Port of Cascade Locks and the Forest Service, and between Clackamas County and the Forest Service. Construction activities on lands conveyed shall comply with nationally recognized building and property maintenance codes or nationally recognized codes for development in the wildland-urban interface. Transportation – The legislation would direct the Secretary of Agriculture to seek to participate in the development of an integrated, multi-modal transportation plan for the Mount Hood region developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation. The legislation would direct the Secretary of Agriculture to seek to participate in the development of an integrated, multi-modal transportation plan for the Mount Hood region developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation. Forest Stewardship and Watershed Health – The legislation would direct the Secretary to prepare a report on and implementation schedule for a vegetation management strategy, including biomass utilization, for the Mount Hood National Forest. The legislation would direct the Secretary to prepare a report on and implementation schedule for a vegetation management strategy, including biomass utilization, for the Mount Hood National Forest. local and tribal relationships – The legislation would direct the Secretary to consult with Indian Tribes with treaty-reserved gathering rights on the Mount Hood forest to develop and implement a management plan that meets the cultural foods obligations of the United States under applicable treaties. This plan would be consistent with existing Memoranda of Understanding. The legislation would direct the Secretary to consult with Indian Tribes with treaty-reserved gathering rights on the Mount Hood forest to develop and implement a management plan that meets the cultural foods obligations of the United States under applicable treaties. This plan would be consistent with existing Memoranda of Understanding. Recreation – The legislation would permit the Secretary to establish a working group for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Forest Service on planning and implementing recreation enhancements in the Mount Hood National Forest. It would further direct the Secretary to consider converting roads designated for closure or decommissioning into recreation trails. It would also encourage the Secretary to work with the public to construct a trail within the Mount Hood forest suitable for use by persons with disabilities. The legislation would permit the Secretary to establish a working group for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Forest Service on planning and implementing recreation enhancements in the Mount Hood National Forest. It would further direct the Secretary to consider converting roads designated for closure or decommissioning into recreation trails. It would also encourage the Secretary to work with the public to construct a trail within the Mount Hood forest suitable for use by persons with disabilities. Oregon Caves The legislation would enhance the protection of the natural resources associated with Oregon Caves National Monument, increase public recreation opportunities, expand local economic development opportunities, and protect the drinking water source of Oregon Caves National Monument from pollution and contamination by adjusting the boundary of the Monument. President Taft created the Monument by Proclamation 876 on July 12, 1909 The Monument is currently 480 (three-quarters of a square mile) acres and encompasses only the mouth of the High Hopes, Monument Deep, Oregon, and Clay Caves The Oregon Caves Chateau is located near the caves, and is one of the National Park’s Great Lodges and a National Historic Landmark. The six-story hotel located on the monument has a fine dining room, a 1930’s era coffee shop, and 23 rooms Oregon Caves is the longest marble cave (3.5 miles) open to the public west of the Continental Divide According to the city of Cave Junction, the economic development strategy of the Illinois Valley is tourism, and the Oregon Caves is the largest attraction that brings tourists to the area. Similarly, the Grants Pass Chamber of Commerce notes that over 25,000 visitors pass through the Grants Pass visitors center each year, with many of them headed to the Oregon Caves Recent discoveries indicate that Oregon Caves possesses a significant collection of Pleistocene fossils, including jaguar and grizzly bear. Grizzly bones that were found in the cave in 1995 were estimated to be at least 50,000 years old, the oldest known from either North or South America The Monument is managed by the National Park Service; the surrounding watershed is managed by the Forest Service (Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest) Grazing in the watershed has caused water quality problems, including contamination of the Monument’s drinking water supply The NPS has formally proposed to expand the boundary of the Monument to encompass several other caves, as well as the surrounding Cave Creek Watershed numerous times, first in 1939, again in 1949, and most recently in 2000 The legislation: Adds approximately 4,070 acres to the Monument by transferring the land from the Forest Service to the National Park Service; Designates 7.6 miles of 6 waterways as "wild," "scenic," or "recreational" under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, including the first subterranean designated waterway in the country, the River Styx, which flows through the Caves; Encourages ecological forest restoration; and Permits the donation of grazing permits and leases associated with the expanded boundary. Lower Rogue wild and scenic river additions Pursuant to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, the legislation would designate 142.9 miles of tributaries to the Rogue Wild and Scenic River (est. 1968) and classify the tributaries as either "Wild," "Scenic," or "Recreational" in order to protect the outstandingly remarkable values of these tributaries themselves as well as the benefits that these tributaries contribute to the Lower Rogue Wild and Scenic River. In 1968, Congress protected 84 miles of the lower Rogue River under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act due to the River’s "outstandingly remarkable values" of high water quality, excellent fishery, and recreational opportunities. The Rogue was one of the first rivers protected under the Act The headwaters of the Rogue River are in Crater Lake National Park, and ultimately empty into the Pacific Ocean near Gold Beach on the southwestern Oregon coast, 215 miles away The Rogue River is Oregon’s second largest producer of salmon, largely due to the clear, cold water the river’s tributaries provide to the main stem of the Rogue The Rogue River is home to runs of coho, spring and fall chinook, winter and summer steelhead, as well as being one of only a few rivers in the country with runs of green sturgeon. Rogue River tributaries provide spawning and rearing habitat for winter and summer steelhead and coho salmon Recreation is the largest source of economic stimulus for the communities of southern Oregon, which supports dozens of outfitters, guides, and associated businesses. The Bureau of Land Management estimates that more than 25,000 people use the Rogue River every year, which generates more than $13 million dollars annually The famed adventure writer Zane Grey spent much of his time in the heart of Rogue River country. He owned a small cabin at Winkle Bar on the Rogue where he wrote many of his celebrated books, including Rogue River Feud and Tales of Freshwater Fishing. The cabin still stands today, and is a popular attraction for river visitors. A large roadless area that surrounds the Rogue and its tributaries, the Zane Grey roadless area, is named after the writer. The legislation: Designates 142.9 miles of 40 waterways as "wild," "scenic," or "recreational" under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act; and Consistent with the Act, creates a half-mile wide buffer of protection on both sides of the waterway. The legislation would add approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness to the Mt. Hood National Forest. The proposed Wilderness areas are: Badger Creek Wilderness Additions: Badger Creek Additions, Bonney Butte, Boulder Lake Bull of the Woods Wilderness Additions: Bull of the Woods Additions Clackamas Wilderness: Big Bottom, Clackamas Canyon, Memaloose Lake, Sisi Butte, South Fork Clackamas Mark O. Hatfield Wilderness Additions: Gorge Face, Larch Mountain Mount Hood Wilderness Additions: Barlow Butte, Bluegrass Ridge, Elk Cove/Mazama, Richard L. Kohnstamm Memorial Area, Sand Canyon, Sandy River Additions, Twin Lakes, Tilly Jane,White River, Cloud Cap Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness Additions: Alder Creek, Eagle Creek, Hunchback Mountain, Inch Creek, Mirror Lake, Roaring River, Salmon River Meadows, Salmon Huckleberry Keyhole Lower White River Wilderness The legislation would add 79.6 miles of new Wild and Scenic Rivers. They are: South Fork Clackamas River Eagle Creek Middle Fork Hood River South Fork Roaring River ZigZag River Fifteenmile Creek East Fork Hood River Collawash River Fish Creek The legislation would designate approximately 34,550 acres as National Recreation Areas (NRA). They are: Mount Hood NRA Fifteen Mile Creek NRA Shellrock Mountain NRA Crystal Springs Watershed Management Unit- The bill would establish a special resources management unit for the Crystal Springs Watershed to ensure protection of water quality and quantity. The Crystal Springs Watershed serves residential citizens, communities, irrigation districts, and diverse ecosystems on the north side of Mount Hood with clean water. The bill would establish a special resources management unit for the Crystal Springs Watershed to ensure protection of water quality and quantity. The Crystal Springs Watershed serves residential citizens, communities, irrigation districts, and diverse ecosystems on the north side of Mount Hood with clean water. Land Conveyances – The legislation would direct the Forest Service to engage in three land exchanges. The first, between Mt. Hood Meadows and the U.S. Forest Service, would facilitate the exchange of 120 acres of Forest Service managed land in Government Camp for 770 acres of private land at Cooper Spur. The legislation would require a new appraisal to be conducted, and mandate compliance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition and Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. In addition, the legislation would facilitate land exchanges between the Port of Cascade Locks and the Forest Service, and between Clackamas County and the Forest Service. Construction activities on lands conveyed shall comply with nationally recognized building and property maintenance codes or nationally recognized codes for development in the wildland-urban interface. The legislation would direct the Forest Service to engage in three land exchanges. The first, between Mt. Hood Meadows and the U.S. Forest Service, would facilitate the exchange of 120 acres of Forest Service managed land in Government Camp for 770 acres of private land at Cooper Spur. The legislation would require a new appraisal to be conducted, and mandate compliance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition and Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. In addition, the legislation would facilitate land exchanges between the Port of Cascade Locks and the Forest Service, and between Clackamas County and the Forest Service. Construction activities on lands conveyed shall comply with nationally recognized building and property maintenance codes or nationally recognized codes for development in the wildland-urban interface. Transportation – The legislation would direct the Secretary of Agriculture to seek to participate in the development of an integrated, multi-modal transportation plan for the Mount Hood region developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation. The legislation would direct the Secretary of Agriculture to seek to participate in the development of an integrated, multi-modal transportation plan for the Mount Hood region developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation. Forest Stewardship and Watershed Health – The legislation would direct the Secretary to prepare a report on and implementation schedule for a vegetation management strategy, including biomass utilization, for the Mount Hood National Forest. The legislation would direct the Secretary to prepare a report on and implementation schedule for a vegetation management strategy, including biomass utilization, for the Mount Hood National Forest. local and tribal relationships – The legislation would direct the Secretary to consult with Indian Tribes with treaty-reserved gathering rights on the Mount Hood forest to develop and implement a management plan that meets the cultural foods obligations of the United States under applicable treaties. This plan would be consistent with existing Memoranda of Understanding. The legislation would direct the Secretary to consult with Indian Tribes with treaty-reserved gathering rights on the Mount Hood forest to develop and implement a management plan that meets the cultural foods obligations of the United States under applicable treaties. This plan would be consistent with existing Memoranda of Understanding. Recreation – The legislation would permit the Secretary to establish a working group for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Forest Service on planning and implementing recreation enhancements in the Mount Hood National Forest. It would further direct the Secretary to consider converting roads designated for closure or decommissioning into recreation trails. It would also encourage the Secretary to work with the public to construct a trail within the Mount Hood forest suitable for use by persons with disabilities. The legislation would permit the Secretary to establish a working group for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Forest Service on planning and implementing recreation enhancements in the Mount Hood National Forest. It would further direct the Secretary to consider converting roads designated for closure or decommissioning into recreation trails. It would also encourage the Secretary to work with the public to construct a trail within the Mount Hood forest suitable for use by persons with disabilities. Oregon Caves The legislation would enhance the protection of the natural resources associated with Oregon Caves National Monument, increase public recreation opportunities, expand local economic development opportunities, and protect the drinking water source of Oregon Caves National Monument from pollution and contamination by adjusting the boundary of the Monument. President Taft created the Monument by Proclamation 876 on July 12, 1909 The Monument is currently 480 (three-quarters of a square mile) acres and encompasses only the mouth of the High Hopes, Monument Deep, Oregon, and Clay Caves The Oregon Caves Chateau is located near the caves, and is one of the National Park’s Great Lodges and a National Historic Landmark. The six-story hotel located on the monument has a fine dining room, a 1930’s era coffee shop, and 23 rooms Oregon Caves is the longest marble cave (3.5 miles) open to the public west of the Continental Divide According to the city of Cave Junction, the economic development strategy of the Illinois Valley is tourism, and the Oregon Caves is the largest attraction that brings tourists to the area. Similarly, the Grants Pass Chamber of Commerce notes that over 25,000 visitors pass through the Grants Pass visitors center each year, with many of them headed to the Oregon Caves Recent discoveries indicate that Oregon Caves possesses a significant collection of Pleistocene fossils, including jaguar and grizzly bear. Grizzly bones that were found in the cave in 1995 were estimated to be at least 50,000 years old, the oldest known from either North or South America The Monument is managed by the National Park Service; the surrounding watershed is managed by the Forest Service (Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest) Grazing in the watershed has caused water quality problems, including contamination of the Monument’s drinking water supply The NPS has formally proposed to expand the boundary of the Monument to encompass several other caves, as well as the surrounding Cave Creek Watershed numerous times, first in 1939, again in 1949, and most recently in 2000 The legislation: Adds approximately 4,070 acres to the Monument by transferring the land from the Forest Service to the National Park Service; Designates 7.6 miles of 6 waterways as "wild," "scenic," or "recreational" under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, including the first subterranean designated waterway in the country, the River Styx, which flows through the Caves; Encourages ecological forest restoration; and Permits the donation of grazing permits and leases associated with the expanded boundary. Lower Rogue wild and scenic river additions Pursuant to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, the legislation would designate 142.9 miles of tributaries to the Rogue Wild and Scenic River (est. 1968) and classify the tributaries as either "Wild," "Scenic," or "Recreational" in order to protect the outstandingly remarkable values of these tributaries themselves as well as the benefits that these tributaries contribute to the Lower Rogue Wild and Scenic River. In 1968, Congress protected 84 miles of the lower Rogue River under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act due to the River’s "outstandingly remarkable values" of high water quality, excellent fishery, and recreational opportunities. The Rogue was one of the first rivers protected under the Act The headwaters of the Rogue River are in Crater Lake National Park, and ultimately empty into the Pacific Ocean near Gold Beach on the southwestern Oregon coast, 215 miles away The Rogue River is Oregon’s second largest producer of salmon, largely due to the clear, cold water the river’s tributaries provide to the main stem of the Rogue The Rogue River is home to runs of coho, spring and fall chinook, winter and summer steelhead, as well as being one of only a few rivers in the country with runs of green sturgeon. Rogue River tributaries provide spawning and rearing habitat for winter and summer steelhead and coho salmon Recreation is the largest source of economic stimulus for the communities of southern Oregon, which supports dozens of outfitters, guides, and associated businesses. The Bureau of Land Management estimates that more than 25,000 people use the Rogue River every year, which generates more than $13 million dollars annually The famed adventure writer Zane Grey spent much of his time in the heart of Rogue River country. He owned a small cabin at Winkle Bar on the Rogue where he wrote many of his celebrated books, including Rogue River Feud and Tales of Freshwater Fishing. The cabin still stands today, and is a popular attraction for river visitors. A large roadless area that surrounds the Rogue and its tributaries, the Zane Grey roadless area, is named after the writer. The legislation: Designates 142.9 miles of 40 waterways as "wild," "scenic," or "recreational" under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act; and Consistent with the Act, creates a half-mile wide buffer of protection on both sides of the waterway.
06.17.2008	June 16, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) took steps to combat oil prices when he joined with nine of his democratic colleagues last week and introduced H.R. 6251, the Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act of 2008. The measure is an effort to compel oil and gas companies to produce on the 68 million acres of federal lands, both onshore and offshore, that are leased but sitting idle. The legislation challenges oil companies to either "use it or lose it." "Americans are struggling to make ends meet and yet, Big Oil is restricting domestic production on federal leases and as a result, enjoying record profits," DeFazio said. "This measure will put an end to it. We cannot continue to allow them to speculate and profiteer with public resources to the detriment of the American people." The Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act of 2008 is a direct response to the facts outlined in a recent House Natural Resources Committee Majority Staff report, "The Truth About America’s Energy: Big Oil Stockpiles Supplies and Pockets Profits", that illustrate how energy companies are not using the federal lands and waters that are already open to drilling. For weeks, republicans have been harping on the need to open up additional leases for drilling to lower gas prices and accusing democrats of withholding the needed leases to do that. However, between 1999 and 2007, the number of drilling permits issued for development on public lands has increased by more than 361 percent. Meanwhile, 10,000 of those leases are not being utilized and instead are being stockpiled by profit rich oil companies. The 68 million acres of leased but inactive federal land have the potential to produce an additional 4.8 million barrels of oil and 44.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas each day. This legislation would nearly double total U.S. oil production, increase natural gas production by 75 percent, and put an end to oil companies artificially driving up prices by hording leases. It would also cut U.S. oil imports by more than one-third, reducing America’s dependence on foreign oil. H.R. 6251 would force oil and gas companies to either produce or give up federal onshore and offshore leases they are stockpiling by barring the companies from obtaining any more leases unless they can demonstrate that they are producing oil and gas, or are diligently developing the leases they already hold, during the initial term of the leases. Coal companies, which are issued leases for 20-year terms, are required, as a result of the Federal Coal Leasing Amendments Act of 1976 to show that they are diligently developing their leases during the initial lease term. The law was enacted in an effort to end rampant speculation on federal coal as a result of the energy crises of the 1970’s. Oil and gas companies, however, are not required to demonstrate diligent development. Because of this, oil and gas companies have been allowed to stockpile leases in a non-producing status, while leaving millions of acres of leased land untouched. H.R. 6251 directs the Secretary of the Interior to define what constitutes diligent development for oil and gas leases. Companies could avoid this new lease prohibition by relinquishing their non-producing leases, thus creating an opportunity for another company to explore for and perhaps produce oil and gas. "As long as oil companies refuse to develop their existing leases, Americans will continue to get robbed at the pump. This legislation would effectively put and end to that and lower the price of fuel for hard working Americans," DeFazio said.
06.16.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) sent a letter today to President Bush urging him to file a case with the World Trade Organization (WTO) charging oil-producing countries with improperly restricting exports. DeFazio argued that restricting exports leads to artificially inflated oil prices. "The OPEC cartel continues to restrict the supply of oil, in violation of WTO rules, artificially driving up the price of fuel. Meanwhile, America upholds its promise to abide by the harmful WTO rules, sacrificing American jobs and subjecting consumers to sky high oil prices," DeFazio said. "As a world power, we have leverage over OPEC members. Why should we continue to support the oil barons that colluded to raise the price of oil and in turn hike up prices at the pump?" President Bush recently attempted to lower American gas prices by asking Saudi Arabia to increase fuel production. His request largely fell on deaf ears. DeFazio is now requesting that the President take legal action. Under Article XI of the WTO rules, member countries are prohibited from using anything other than, "duties, taxes or other charges," to limit imports or exports across their borders. Therefore, DeFazio argues that oil production quotas violate WTO rules. Of the 13 OPEC countries, nine are members of the WTO and 4 have observer status and have applied to join the WTO. This isn’t the first time DeFazio has requested that President Bush take action against the OPEC nations in the WTO. In 2001, DeFazio sent a letter to President Bush urging him to file a complaint against OPEC under WTO rules. President Bush did not take action on DeFazio’s letter and the WTO violation by OPEC has not been challenged. The text of the letter to President Bush is below: June 16, 2008 The Honorable George W. BushPresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500 Mr. President: As you know, the world oil market is unstable and creating havoc with our economy. Many economists frame the problem as a supply and demand problem that will work itself out. Many blame the surging price on China’s increased appetite for oil, but I think the facts show a different picture. Everyone agrees that world demand for oil has risen. But, I find it curious that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has deliberately refused to increase production. The Middle East’s six largest oil exporters -- Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Iran, Kuwait, Iraq and Qatar -- reduced their combined output by 544,000 barrels a day. But the net loss in exports was 862,000 barrels a day because these six OPEC nations have seen their domestic demand increase by 318,000 barrels a day. In fact, OPEC’s oil production peaked in 2005 and has declined since. The amount of crude oil exported by the world's top oil producers fell 2.5% last year despite a 57% increase in prices. The result of withholding supply has spiked the price of oil to over $130 a barrel. The U.S. has few options to affect the price of oil. For example, last month, press accounts indicate that you -- for the second time this year -- asked the Saudis to increase their oil production. Unfortunately your efforts were unsuccessful. But there is another option. After the official meetings of the World Economic Forum on the Middle East in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, I spoke with the U.S Trade Representative Susan Schwab. I urged her to file a WTO complaint against OPEC for violating the General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions, otherwise known as Article XI of the original General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). I believe there is a strong legal basis for the U.S. to pursue this trade complaint. This article states: "No prohibitions or restrictions other than duties, taxes or other charges, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licenses or other measures, shall be instituted or maintained by any contracting party on the importation of any product of the territory of any other contracting party or on the exportation or sale for export of any product destined for the territory of any other contracting party." In other words, it appears that colluding to set production levels would violate WTO rules, specifically Article XI. And this is precisely the purpose of OPEC. The precise meaning of this provision is fleshed out in a 1988 GATT Panel Report on "Japan - Trade in Semi-conductors." The Panel noted: "...this wording (in Article XI) was comprehensive: it applied to all measures instituted or maintained by a contracting party prohibiting or restricting the importation, exportation or sale for export of products other than measures that take the form of duties, taxes, or other charges...This wording indicated clearly that any measure instituted or maintained by a contracting party which restricted the exportation or sale for export of products was covered by this provision, irrespective of the legal status of the measure." The 1988 GATT panel report clarifies that only duties, taxes or other charges are allowable, not pacts among countries to limit production of a product for export. The oil production quotas devised by OPEC clearly qualify as a "quantitative restriction" and I reiterate my request that the U.S. Trade Representatives be instructed to file a case at the WTO arguing this point. Finally, I want to bring your attention to Article XX, which sets out a series of broad exceptions to Article XI. Article XX notes that none of the exceptions are valid if they are "applied in a manner which would constitute...a disguised restriction on international trade." Therefore, the broad exception in Article XX that allows restrictions for the "conservation of exhaustible natural resources" would not protect OPEC's market manipulation because OPEC is not restricting oil production due to conservation concerns or to preserve an exhaustible supply. Rather, OPEC is restricting supply solely in order to influence world oil prices which clearly qualifies as a "disguised restriction on international trade." Of the 13 OPEC countries: 9 are members of the WTO (Angola, Ecuador, Indonesia, Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Venezuela); and 4 have observer status and have applied to the WTO (Algeria, Iran, Iraq, and Libya). Therefore, filing a case could have a widespread impact. The United States government has filed a number of cases with the WTO on behalf of the U.S. business community; it is past time to show a similar commitment to U.S. consumers and fuel-dependent industries that are being gouged by OPEC. Unfortunately, Ms. Schwab indicated that despite the recent failed effort to persuade Saudi Arabia to increase oil production the Administration was still reluctant to file such a complaint. Your administration is already investigating the continued volatility in oil prices domestically. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission investigation includes crude oil trading, storage and transportation for the past six months with a focus on possible "futures market manipulation." If the administration is willing to investigate outrageous oil prices here at home, then your administration should also file a WTO complaint to remedy the OPEC cartel price distortions. In light of your unsuccessful efforts to prod OPEC into more oil production, I ask that you order the U.S. Trade Representative to file a WTO complaint. Thank you, in advance, for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
06.13.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representatives Peter DeFazio, David Wu, and Darlene Hooley wrote to the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), Joseph Kelliher, yesterday to request additional time to address ongoing concerns about the liquefied natural gas (LNG) licensing process. FERC issued its Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the Bradwood Landing LNG project earlier this month. However, many of the community’s concerns, including those raised in the Oregon Department of Energy (ODOE) report and by the recent changes to the Bradwood Landing facility proposal, have not yet been adequately addressed. "With the potential environmental and safety risks reported in the Final Environmental Impact Statement for the Bradwood Landing LNG facility, it is clear the State of Oregon needs more time to asses the plans before the licensing process goes forward," DeFazio said. "It is my sincere hope that FERC will step up to the plate and protect Oregonians as this project goes forward." "Once again, FERC has unilaterally moved forward in the LNG licensing process, ignoring repeated requests from both the governor and congressional delegation for meaningful community input," said Wu. "The FEIS is incomplete without sections addressing the latest research and proposal changes, and the entire licensing process is inadequate without the opportunity for the community to have its concerns resolved." "It doesn’t seem to me to be too much to ask, given the enormity of the undertaking to establish an LNG terminal, that the people who will actually live with the terminal in their backyard be given sufficient time to review the environmental impact statement having to do with the development," said Hooley. Text of the letter sent to FERC follows. June 12, 2008 Joseph T. Kelliher, Chairman Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street NE Washington, DC 20426 Dear Chairman Kelliher: We write to you today in response to the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the Bradwood Landing liquefied natural gas (LNG) project released by your commission on June 6, 2008. We remain concerned about the FERC licensing process. On May 13, 2008, FERC received a letter in support of Governor Kulongoski's request for a supplemental draft environmental impact statement to address both an Oregon Department of Energy (ODOE) report on LNG dated May 7, 2008 and changes in the proposal for the Bradwood Landing facility. These changes include the lack of screened water intakes on LNG tankers, changes in proposed pipeline routes and the deposit locations of dredge materials, and the possibility of open regasification, which will lead to increased discharge of water into the Columbia. These are substantial changes and their possible effects on the environment and the surrounding communities must be considered. We do appreciate that FERC saw fit to request that the developer submit within 30 days either a plan for retrofitting LNG tankers or an alternative plan for screening ballast water. However, this and other important environmental risks remain inadequately addressed by this FEIS. For these reasons, we respectfully request that you provide additional time for the public and other stakeholders to make comment and petition FERC on issues either raised or overlooked by the FEIS. We firmly believe that any Environmental Impact Statement that does not take into account the ODOE's report or the changes to the Bradwood Landing proposal can not adequately address the true effects of the proposed facility or the needs of the environment and Oregon communities. We look forward to working with you on this issue to ensure that these major concerns are fully addressed by FERC. Thank you in advance for your cooperation on this matter of great concern to the state of Oregon. Sincerely, David Wu Peter DeFazio Darlene HooleyMembers of Congress
06.12.2008	June 12, 2008 Washington, DC -- Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) today applauded congressional passage of extended unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed. The Department of Labor announced last week that the national unemployment rate has surged to 5.5 percent from 5.0 percent -- the biggest one-month jump in more than two decades. This is the highest level in nearly four years. In Oregon, the unemployment rate is higher than the national average at 5.6 percent. -- Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) today applauded congressional passage of extended unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed. The Department of Labor announced last week that the national unemployment rate has surged to 5.5 percent from 5.0 percent -- the biggest one-month jump in more than two decades. This is the highest level in nearly four years. In Oregon, the unemployment rate is higher than the national average at 5.6 percent. "This extension will provide a much needed shot in the arm to struggling families and our ailing economy," DeFazio said. "Unemployment insurance provides targeted and effective stimulus for a sluggish economy. These critical benefits will increase consumer spending in hard hit areas and help those families who have been hurt by Bush’s failed economic policies." In order to address this issue, the House passed H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act, by a vote of 274 to 137. This measure will immediately provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in every state to workers exhausting the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. Relief will run through March 2009 and benefit 3.8 million Americans, including more than 64,000 Oregonians. The federal unemployment trust fund has more than enough reserves to cover the cost of these benefits. Extending these benefits is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly. According to the Congressional Budget Office, every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic activity.
06.11.2008	June 11, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC— Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) sent a letter today to the Secretary of Commerce, Carlos M. Gutierrez, expressing his concerns with the process that the Department of Commerce is undertaking to appoint members to the Pacific Fishery Management Council. Rep. DeFazio was joined in the letter by Rep. Nick Rahall, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, where DeFazio is a senior member. — Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) sent a letter today to the Secretary of Commerce, Carlos M. Gutierrez, expressing his concerns with the process that the Department of Commerce is undertaking to appoint members to the Pacific Fishery Management Council. Rep. DeFazio was joined in the letter by Rep. Nick Rahall, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, where DeFazio is a senior member. "Oregon’s unique interest in maintaining a healthy commercial and recreational fishery has been honored for the last 32 years by appointing an at-large seat based on our state’s nomination," DeFazio explained. "This year, however, the Department of Commerce is considering a nomination for the at-large seat that has been put forth by the Governor of Idaho. Although I don’t have anything against Idaho, no one can seriously argue that its interests in the Pacific Coast fishery are on par with Oregon’s. Oregonians need to be represented by someone who understands the needs of Oregon’s fishing interests." The Pacific Fishery Management Council is one of eight regional fishery management councils, established by the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, which develop fishery management plans for federal commercial and recreational fishing in the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone. The Pacific Council is responsible for fisheries off the coasts of California, Oregon, and Washington. In March, the Governor of Oregon put forth a slate of candidates and recommended that Jeffery Feldner be appointed to the Council. The Governor of Idaho submitted a nomination for its preferred candidate, even though Idaho has never held an at-large seat on the Pacific Council. Idaho’s nominations additionally failed to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements for nominations by the deadline for submissions. "In addition to the special place Oregon occupies on the Council, which would be usurped if Secretary Gutierrez selects Idaho’s nominee over ours, I am concerned that Idaho’s nomination does not comply with the requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Act," DeFazio noted. "Idaho’s application package failed to comply with the consultation requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, and was incomplete by the regulatory deadline for consideration. Skirting the legal requirements for Council appointments adds to my concern that there’s something – pardon the pun – fishy going on with the appointment process."
06.11.2008	June 11, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC— Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that he has secured additional funding for Oregon counties through the annual appropriations process. DeFazio worked with Representative Norm Dicks, Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, to increase payments to Oregon and California Lands (O&C) counties in the fiscal year 2009 Interior Appropriations Act. — Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that he has secured additional funding for Oregon counties through the annual appropriations process. DeFazio worked with Representative Norm Dicks, Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, to increase payments to Oregon and California Lands (O&C) counties in the fiscal year 2009 Interior Appropriations Act. "I am pleased that Oregon counties will receive an additional $9 million in O&C payments," DeFazio said. "$9 million isn’t a lot of money compared to what these counties received under the county payments program, but it will help maintain some sheriff’s patrols, jail beds, and other critical county services that are currently scheduled to be cut. It will help mitigate a small amount of the pain." Under the O&C Act, counties in southern Oregon are entitled to 75% of the receipts generated from timber harvest on those lands. However, since the 1950s, the annual appropriations bills have reduced the county share by 25%. Yesterday, Chairman Dicks was successful in attaching a provision to the fiscal year 2009 Interior Appropriations Act to restore the county share to 75%. Given the pending expiration of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, commonly called the ‘county payments program,’ which has provided money to keep many Oregon counties afloat since 2000, Congressman DeFazio spearheaded efforts for a return to the statutory funding formula in the O&C Act. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that this will bring in an additional $9 million for Oregon counties in Fiscal Year 2009. "I will continue to work to extend the county payments program but this money represents some modest relief for counties preparing for devastating cuts," DeFazio continued." Below is a summary of the additional funding counties in southwest Oregon will receive under the Dicks/DeFazio provision: County Additional FY09 Payment Benton $252,900 Coos $531,000 Curry $328,500 Douglas $2,254,500 Josephine $1,087,200 Lane $1,374,300 Linn $237,600
06.11.2008	June 10, 2008 Washington, DC—Today Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) fired back at President Bush over the Administration’s proposal to use a significant portion of the $170 million dollars in disaster aid to coastal fishers to pay for the increased cost of the 2010 United States Census. DeFazio and13 other Members wrote the President warning him against using the salmon disaster aid to fix the mistakes made by his political cronies. “I am absolutely astounded that the Administration is threatening to break its promise to Oregon by revoking $70 million in disaster aid to coastal fishers, just to pay for fixing the problems with the Census,” DeFazio said. “It is outrageous that the President is trying to fix yet another one of its contract screw-ups with emergency funding for a true disaster along the Oregon coast. The fishing community of Oregon is already suffering because of the flawed Bush policies in the Sacramento River basin. They should not have to suffer again because the President has hired people in Florida who can’t count. We’ve been there before.” Late Monday night, the Office of Management and Budget, which puts together the President’s annual budget, sent Congress a revised budget request for more funding to carry out the 2010 Census. The White House is requesting $546 million more for the Census, and has proposed using $70 million of the $170 million in salmon disaster money allocated in the Farm Bill recently passed by Congress, to pay for the cost over-runs. The Administration entered into a contract with the Harris Corporation, a Florida defense contractor, to conduct the Census, but the contractor has run into serious cost over-runs in the amount of hundreds of millions of dollars. On May 1, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) decided to close the salmon fishery in California and most of Oregon. The decision came on the heels of the Pacific Fishery Management Council’s recommendation that the fishery be closed. The closure is due to the unprecedented decline in salmon returning to the Sacramento River, which typically makes a significant contribution to the Oregon fishery. Unfortunately, since these depleted stocks will be co-mingled with other stocks, the season must be almost entirely closed. This means that this will be the worst commercial and recreational fisheries failure in Oregon history. This is the first ban on salmon fishing since the industry began 150 years ago. Short-term assistance is critical so that folks can make boat payments, insurance payments, mortgage payments and keep food on the table. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing on the Harris Corporation and the problems with the Census on June 11, 2008. https://oversight.house.gov/story.asp?ID=2001
06.09.2008	June 9, 2008 President George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Bush: As you know, rural communities across this country are suffering as the result of the economic downturn and changing federal policy regarding federal land management. Over the past several years, we have worked with your Administration to secure a ramped-down reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, also known as Secure Rural Schools or county payments, which aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 42 states. We are writing to you today to confirm that according to high level officials in your Administration, you will not oppose or issue a veto threat on HR 2642, the war supplemental appropriations bill for FY 2008, because it includes a one year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools program. We understand that your position on the one year Secure Rural Schools reauthorization is contingent on that proposal not including full mandatory funding of the payments-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILT) program in the bill, and with the understanding that the $400 million in the supplemental for Secure Rural Schools is the first year in any multi-year reauthorization that begins to ramp down spending on the program. The Administration’s Statement of Administrative Policy on HR 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Act, which is a four year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools, contained a similar statement. The expiration of the Secure Rural Schools program is truly an emergency for hundreds of rural counties across the country. These counties are again facing the prospects of closing libraries, laying off county employees, curtailing sheriffs patrols, releasing prisoners from jails, ceasing search and rescue operations, eliminating mental health care services, and some are considering declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. A short-term extension of the Secure Rural Schools program will ensure that rural school children continue to have access to a quality education, libraries remain open, and public safety is guaranteed. We look forward to hearing from you soon regarding whether we can count on the Administration’s support for the one-year Secure Rural Schools reauthorization in the war supplemental bill now before Congress. Sincerely, PETER A. DEFAZIO Member of Congress
06.09.2008	June 9, 2008 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Madam Speaker: Last week, I wrote to you seeking your assistance in accepting a critical, one year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (Secure Rural Schools) in the Senate-passed version of H.R. 2642, the war supplemental appropriations bill for FY 2008. I write to you today to bring to your attention the Administration’s apparent acceptance on inclusion of this one year reauthorization in the war supplemental. According to high level Administration officials, the Administration will not oppose or issue a veto threat on the bill if a one year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools is included in the supplemental. This position is contingent on not including full mandatory funding of the payments-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILT) program in the bill, and with the understanding that the $400 million in the supplemental for Secure Rural Schools is the first year in any multi-year reauthorization that begins to ramp down spending on the program. The Administration’s Statement of Administrative Policy on HR 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Act, which is a four year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools, contained a similar statement, so I have good reason to believe that the Administration will be amenable to the Senate’s language. The Secure Rural Schools program aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 42 states. These counties are again facing the prospects of closing libraries, laying off county employees, curtailing sheriffs patrols, releasing prisoners from jails, ceasing search and rescue operations, eliminating mental health care services, and some are considering declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. Reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools program will ensure that rural school children continue to have access to a quality education, libraries remain open, and public safety is guaranteed. Thank you again for your invaluable assistance in reauthorizing the critically important Secure Rural Schools program in the past, and I look forward to continuing to work with you in the very near future to bring this process to a close. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
06.09.2008	June 8, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent another letter to President Bush and Speaker Pelosi calling on them to support critical county payments funding in the upcoming emergency spending bill. DeFazio has already sent letters to both asking that they consider including county payments funding in the emergency spending bill. It is currently included in the Senate version of the measure. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent another letter to President Bush and Speaker Pelosi calling on them to support critical county payments funding in the upcoming emergency spending bill. DeFazio has already sent letters to both asking that they consider including county payments funding in the emergency spending bill. It is currently included in the Senate version of the measure. The President has requested $108 billion for the war and $770 million for international food assistance in the emergency spending bill but, has repeatedly stated he would veto legislation that included any domestic spending for emergencies here in the U.S. However, Administration sources have indicated that a one year extension of the county payments program in the supplemental would not force a veto threat. DeFazio is pushing the President to make a public declaration that he will not veto a bill including county payments so House leadership can include it in the emergency spending bill. "I have been lobbying Congressional leaders to include county payments funding in the supplemental but, they say they will not include the program in the bill if it will trigger a veto by the President," DeFazio said. In the House, Speaker Pelosi has been a long time supporter of the county payments program however, the House passed emergency spending bill did not include funding for county payments because of the president’s veto threat on domestic spending. The Senate recently passed the legislation with a one-year extension of the county payments program. If the President will make it clear that he won’t object to an extension of county payments in the emergency supplemental, it will be easier to keep the funding in the legislation. "The possibility that county payments will not trigger a veto by the President is encouraging. I am asking the President to confirm this fact and, in light of this information, I am urging Congressional leaders to fund the program in the emergency supplemental," DeFazio said. "Counties in southwest Oregon are about to start laying off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy -- we’re losing sheriffs patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services. We are at the 11th hour and it is critical that something be done now. Curry and Josephine counties could go bankrupt if the funding isn’t extended." The Secure Rural Schools Act expired on President Bush's watch with a Republican controlled Congress in 2006. Last year, the Democratic Congress gave counties a one-year extension while we continue to work on a longer-term solution. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services.
06.06.2008	Legislation Won’t Advance to the Senate Because Republicans Side with Oil Companies June 5, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio’s (D-Springfield) legislation H.R. 3058 to extend the critical county payments program for four years received the support of a majority of members – 218 to 193 – in the House today. Unfortunately, the bill will not advance to the Senate because the bill was considered under a procedure that required a 2/3 vote rather than a simple majority. Most Republican members sided with profit rich oil companies as opposed to rural schools, sheriff’s patrols, law enforcement, and other vital county services. "I am pleased that a majority in the House recognized the dire need facing our rural counties," DeFazio said. "The fact that a majority in the House voted in support of county payments is very significant and keeps us alive to fight another day." "The fact that this bill will not advance to the Senate at this time is a huge blow to the counties in southwest Oregon who are about to start laying off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy – we’re losing sheriffs patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services," DeFazio continued. "Frankly, I am astounded that the Republicans would choose to make this debate about energy policy, rather take advantage of an opportunity to advance a bill to help stave off the pending economic crisis facing our rural counties. Instead, they sided with the already profit rich oil and gas companies." The primary objections to the bill were based on the offset used to pay for the bill. The bill would close a loophole in 1998-1999 oil and gas leases under which oil companies have not been paying royalties to the U.S. government for oil and gas extracted from federal lands. A few companies like Shell, BP, and Conoco have voluntarily renegotiated contracts and are now paying fair royalties. However, others like Exxon-Mobil have not renegotiated, have not been paying royalties to the federal government, are making obscene profits, and are gouging consumers at the pump. This bill would allow the government to reinstate lawful charges against those companies and it would assure the future of more than 600 counties, over 4,000 school districts, and 7,000 teachers around the country. Members and staff worked for three years in bi-partisan, bi-cameral meetings to find offsets acceptable to all parties. They considered reams of proposed offsets but, unfortunately, those efforts were ultimately unsuccessful and the program expired in September 2006 under a Republican President and Republican-controlled Congress. Last year, the Democratic majority included a one-year extension of the county payments program in an emergency spending bill. The offset in H.R. 3508 has been approved by the House three times previously in this Congress. Forty-eight Republican members have voted for legislation using the offset. Additionally, 14 Republican members cosponsored the bill after it was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee with the same offset. In January, Rep. DeFazio and Rep. Walden sent a joint letter to House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer asking him to schedule a floor vote on H.R. 3058. And on May 1st the Minority Whip, Rep. Roy Blunt and Rep. Walden went to the House floor and asked Rep. Hoyer to schedule a vote on H.R. 3058. The only change made to H.R. 3058 from the time the House Natural Resources Committee approved it in December, 2007 and when it was debated yesterday, is that mandatory payments-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILT) payments were removed. PILT isn’t an expiring program and added $1.3 billion to the overall cost of the bill. DeFazio felt it was prudent to strip that provision from the bill since the President threatened to veto the bill due to the cost and the mandatory PILT provisions. On the other hand, the expiration of county payments is an emergency. The State of Oregon currently receives $250 million a year from the county payments program, while the enhanced PILT provisions would have provided less than $6 million a year for Oregon. "This is not the outcome I had hoped for, but I won’t give up," DeFazio continued. "I will continue to push to keep the $400 million in the emergency supplemental, and I will continue to pursue every possible legislative vehicle to move an extension of county payments in this Congress. Unfortunately, we may have to wait to work with the next President to find a solution since President Bush threatened to veto this bill." The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act expired in 2006 on President Bush’s watch with a Republican-controlled Congress. Last year, the Democratic Congress gave counties a one-year extension while Congress continued to work on a longer-term solution. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for critical services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally-owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services.
06.06.2008	June 5, 2008 Open Letter to the Citizens of Oregon: It is with profound disappointment that I write to you today about the recent developments surrounding my bill to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools or “county payments” program. Rarely before in my service to Oregon have I been as frustrated in my attempts to do the right thing for the people of this great state. I appreciate this opportunity to talk to you about what’s happening. I am very proud of the fact that the vote on Thursday was the first stand-alone vote on county payments in eight years, since the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act was passed into law in 2000. A majority of the House voted in support of rural schools and communities. This is an amazing achievement. When the Secure Rural Schools program was originally considered by Congress in 2000, I expressed significant reservations that not making the program permanent was a mistake. However, I was a minority in that view, and final legislation terminated the program in 2006. I began working with Rep. Walden and other interested Members of Congress to reauthorize the program three years ago. However, the Republican-controlled House, Senate, and White House did not place a priority on reauthorization. Indeed, the program expired in 2006 without any movement towards finding a solution to the growing crisis in our rural communities. This, despite the overwhelming consensus that the Secure Rural Schools program was a huge success, not only in moving rural communities towards more sustainable economies, but also in bridging the often-wide divide regarding sound forest management. The new congressional leadership responded quickly to the expiration of county payments, and I reached out to my Republican colleagues to craft a bipartisan reauthorization bill. First, I introduced HR 17, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2007, with Congressman Walden in January 2007. Although this bill had 140 cosponsors, it had two problems: not only was it not paid for as required by the rules of the House, but also it was referred to the House Agriculture Committee, which had refused to take up the bill. In May 2007, Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Leadership heard our call for a short-term, one year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools program, and provided another year of funding in an emergency supplemental spending bill. This money was designed to tide us over until we could secure a longer term county payments solution, and gave us a much needed lifeline. Trying again at a long term extension of county payments, I introduced HR 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Act in July 2007. This time, we drafted the legislation so as to ensure that the House Natural Resources Committee, of which I am a member with many years of seniority, would have jurisdiction over the bill. Moreover, the Chairman of the Committee, Representative Nick Rahall, understands the plight of rural communities and the importance of the Secure Rural Schools program, and was eager to take up my bill. And, importantly, the bill was consistent with House rules and basic accounting principles: it was paid for with real dollars. The Committee quickly took up the bill, held hearings, and passed it. Last summer, the Natural Resources Committee also considered HR 2337, the Energy Policy Reform and Revitalization Act of 2007, which included language that would have provided an avenue to reauthorize Secure Rural Schools. Unfortunately, the Senate did not include this language in the energy bill that eventually became law. In the fall of 2007, language to reauthorize the program was included in HR 6, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Although this reauthorization passed both houses of Congress by overwhelming margins in late 2007, the reauthorization language was stripped out of the bill by Republican Senators who sided with big oil companies and protected their profits, over the welfare of rural counties. Therefore, the reauthorization did not become law. After the failure to include a reauthorization in the energy bills, late last year and into this year I spearheaded many letters to the House Leadership and Appropriators, urging these decision makers to include a reauthorization in any legislative vehicle that was moving. We focused on omnibus spending bills as well as the energy bill that eventually became law, but ultimately an extension of Secure Rural Schools faltered in the Senate and did not become law. Congressman Walden was right to call for bringing HR 3058 to the floor for a vote. That’s why I joined him in the attached letter to Majority Leader Hoyer in January of this year asking that HR 3058 be scheduled for a vote. In the letter, both Congressman Walden and I expressed our support for HR 3058, including in the mechanism to pay for the bill. We also highlighted the urgency of the crisis facing our counties without Secure Rural Schools, and the bipartisan backing enjoyed by this program. At no time did Mr. Walden indicate to me that the offset in HR 3058 was a deal breaker, and following that letter, both Mr. Walden and I took the House floor on several occasions to draw attention to the pending emergency facing rural counties in Oregon and across the country. In early May, House Minority Whip Congressman Blunt engaged Majority Leader Hoyer in a conversation on the floor regarding the status of HR 3058. The Minority Whip indicated that he had been asked by Mr. Walden to seek the support of the Majority Leader in bringing HR 3058 to the floor for a vote, and spoke about the importance of Secure Rural Schools and the bipartisan support it enjoyed. During that conversation, neither Mr. Blunt nor Mr. Walden raised any concerns with HR 3058, or the method of payment. Instead, they stressed the urgency of bringing it to the floor for a vote. Working with my Leadership, I secured an agreement to bring HR 3058 to the floor for a vote in mid-May. However, upon communicating this agreement to Mr. Walden, I began to hear of resistance from the other side of the aisle to the bill. Somehow, this bipartisan effort to extend critical payments to counties was becoming very partisan, and I agreed to hold off on a floor vote to attempt to address these concerns. I also reconsidered a set of offsets that we had discussed in early 2007 as potential pay-fors for Secure Rural Schools. Although I was willing to use these offsets, they were problematic for many Members on both sides of the aisle. Therefore, we stuck with the offset in HR 3058, which had already been passed by the House three times. As evidenced by the floor debate on Wednesday on my bill, the “problems” with HR 3058 fall into two categories, neither of which have merit. First, some have claimed that the offset used to pay for the reauthorization – closing a loophole in some oil and gas leases – is illegal, and that the Majority has broken a promise that it would not be used. Although I’m not a lawyer, the Congressional Research Service – which does employ lawyers – has written several reports confirming that the offset is perfectly legal. I cannot argue with that. And, there was never a promise made by myself or any other Member that we would remove the oil and gas offset from HR 3058. Instead, I have always been very clear with Mr. Walden and others that that offset – which has been approved by the House three times in the past 18 months – was merely a placeholder in order to get HR 3058 to the Senate. Once in the other chamber, Senators Wyden, Baucus, and others have made it repeatedly clear that county payments will be paid for using tax offsets: they just need a legislative vehicle, and they will take care of paying for the program. I welcome the Senate’s assistance, and have tried hard to give my Senate colleagues what they have asked for: a bill that they can amend and fund. Clearly, Representative Walden was aware that funding county payments would be paid for by closing loopholes in oil and gas leases. I am especially puzzled by his recent opposition to this pay-for, given that Congressman Walden voted for a bill that would have expanded offshore oil drilling and closed the oil and gas lease loophole two years ago when the Republicans controlled Congress. Second, some have claimed that because the version of HR 3058 brought to the floor on Wednesday did not include full funding of payments-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILT), another promise was broken. This is simply not true. There was never any promise to retain PILT in HR 3058. Instead, I decided to remove it from the bill in order to bring the cost of the bill down, and, importantly, because the White House has said that it will veto the bill if it contains mandatory full funding of PILT. I did not see a reason to go down that path, when Congress can fully fund PILT through the regular appropriations process at any time, including when Congress considers the Interior Appropriations bill in the next few weeks. Moreover, Oregon receives only about $6.5 million dollars in PILT; but receives $255 million in Secure Rural Schools payments. So, I don’t understand why some members would vote against HR 3058 on the basis of an additional $1.5 million in PILT payments versus $255 million in Secure Rural Schools payments, especially when we can get the PILT money through other means. That brings us to Wednesday. On the House floor on Wednesday, the debate on HR 3058 very rarely touched on the value of the Secure Rural Schools program. We all seem to agree – I think – that county payments is a good thing, and should be reauthorized. Instead, the debate focused on how to pay for the program. The pay-for I have proposed has been passed by wide margins in the House three times, with broad bipartisan support. Mr. Walden put forth a proposal late on Tuesday that would take us in a much different direction. That proposal, a bill that was first introduced in 2006 and was most recently introduced late last month, has only Republican cosponsors. It is a bill to increase drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, and to develop liquid coal technologies, very controversial proposals that are not supported by some of the very states it is supposed to benefit. It is not a bill to pay for county payments, although a portion of the bill closes the oil and gas lease loophole I am proposing to close in order to pay for HR 3058. Interestingly, Mr. Walden is not a cosponsor of either this bill, or the bill introduced in 2006. The debate over how to pay for county payments has very likely threatened perhaps the last chance that we have to reauthorize county payments. It is a needless debate. HR 3058 is paid-for in a responsible manner. Sending HR 3058 to the Senate for consideration was the next step in the legislative process; and once there, this bill could have been paid for by tax offsets – or other means – supplied by that chamber. Most importantly, the debate over how to pay for county payments is wasting time that we simply do not have to spare. Secure Rural Schools will expire at the end of this month. At that point, not only will our rural counties be thrown into chaos, but it also may be impossible to reclaim the momentum we now have for reauthorizing the program. You can be sure that I will do everything that I can to ensure that that does not happen. But, we will need the support of all Members whose Districts are affected by Secure Rural Schools, regardless of political party. As I said yesterday on the floor, when you’re faced with tough choices, the well-being of your constituents must always take precedence over the interests of your political patrons. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Click here to read the letter to the Speaker from Representatives DeFazio and Walden
06.04.2008	June 3, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC— The House of Representatives today considered Rep. DeFazio’s (D-Springfield) bill, H.R. 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Act. The measure would extend the critical county payments program for another four years. A vote on the measure is expected tomorrow, Thursday, June 5. — The House of Representatives today considered Rep. DeFazio’s (D-Springfield) bill, H.R. 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Act. The measure would extend the critical county payments program for another four years. A vote on the measure is expected tomorrow, Thursday, June 5. The outcome of vote is in question due to expected unanimous Republican opposition to the legislation. The opposition stems from the fact that the measure is fully paid-for by closing a loophole in oil and gas leases. Republicans appear to be siding with big oil rather than the dire economic needs of counties in southwest Oregon. Congressman DeFazio’s comments and instructions for downloading the available audio are below. "Finally we have gotten the critical issue of extending county and school payments to the floor of the House. Unfortunately, today we’re confronted with a situation where it appears that every Republican intends to vote against the bill because it is paid for by requiring Exxon Mobil and other oil companies to drop a subsidy that was extended to them, by mistake, by the Clinton Administration and pay a fair fee for the extraction of oil and gas off of federal lands. This would raise more than $3.3 billion -- way more than enough to pay for county payments for the next four years funding teachers, schools, law enforcement, sheriff’s deputies, corrections officers, public works and other critical county services. This money is essential. I can understand that for some people it’s tough when they’re being pushed from the one side by big oil and the other by their constituents. For me, it’s not a hard decision. But, apparently, for some others, it is. I’m very disappointed but I’m going to continue to fight. I’m hopeful when the bill comes up tomorrow, some people will think this through over night and change their minds and vote to send it over to the Senate. If they want to continue subsidies for oil companies, they can work with their friends in the Senate to protect the oil companies and find another way to pay for county and school payments. No matter what, it’s critical we get these funds."
06.03.2008	Would Provide Life-line to Counties on the Verge of Bankruptcy June 2, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and 12 other members today sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi supporting critical county payments funding in the domestic portion of the pending emergency spending bill. The Senate has already passed the legislation with a one-year extension of the county payments program but, the President has threatened to veto a bill that contains any funding for domestic programs. "I am urging Congressional leaders to include county payments funding in the emergency supplemental," DeFazio said. "Counties in southwest Oregon are about to start laying off employees by the hundreds into a bad economy -- we’re losing sheriffs patrols, jail beds, teachers and other vital public services. We are at the 11th hour and it is critical that something be done now. Curry and Josephine counties could go bankrupt if the funding isn’t extended." The Secure Rural Schools Act expired in September of 2006 on President Bush's watch with a Republican controlled Congress. Last year, the Democratic Congress gave counties a one-year extension while we continue to work on a longer-term solution. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. DeFazio's letter follows: The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the HouseH232 CapitolWashington, DC 20515 Dear Madam Speaker: Our states are in crisis, and we are seeking your urgent assistance. As you know, the Senate has amended H.R. 2642, the war supplemental appropriations bill for FY 2008 to include a one-year $400 million reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (Secure Rural Schools). We ask that you accept this critical one-year extension. A year ago thanks to your leadership, Congress passed a one year extension of the Secure Rural Schools legislation on the FY 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations bill, providing payments to counties that will run out in less than a month. Your support for rural communities gave our counties a lifeline, and we sincerely thank you for this desperately needed assistance. Since then, Democrats and Republicans have worked together to secure a multi-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools program. Both the House and the Senate have passed some form of multi-year reauthorization but we have not been able to achieve final passage of the reauthorization yet, though we remain hopeful that we will. In the mean time our counties and schools desperately need a one year bridge. The Secure Rural Schools program aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 41 states. These counties are again facing the prospects of closing libraries, laying off county employees, curtailing sheriffs patrols, releasing prisoners from jails, ceasing search and rescue operations, eliminating mental health care services, and some are considering declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. The lack of a reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools legislation has needlessly wrought budget planning havoc on hundreds of rural communities. Most of these counties have fiscal years that begin in July, and are in the midst of their budget planning processes. Because their fiscal future is uncertain, they are planning imminent layoffs of critical personnel and the cessation of a number of county services. Indeed, when faced with the lack of payments last year, counties began laying off employees in February, and began sending contract cancellation notices to teachers in March. This disastrous cycle is now repeating itself, which will only serve to worsen the economic downturn that many rural areas are currently experiencing. Reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools program will ensure that rural school children continue to have access to a quality education, libraries remain open, and public safety is guaranteed. Thank you again for your invaluable assistance in reauthorizing the critically important Secure Rural Schools program in the past, and we look forward to continuing to work with you in the very near future to bring this process to a close. Sincerely, Darlene Hooley David Wu Joe BacaMichael MichaudBruce Braley David LoebsackPhil Hare Betty SuttonMike ThompsonBob EtheridgeBaron HillEarl BlumenauerShelley BerkleyStephanie Herseth Sandlin
05.22.2008	House will Vote to Extend Program June 3rd Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that the House of Representatives will vote on legislation to fund critical county payments on June 3, 2008. "Today’s news that the House of Representatives will finally vote on extending the Secure Rural Schools program comes as a welcome step in our on-going fight to continue the successful and critical county payments program. For years, my main focus has been finding a way to ensure these payments continue, to keep rural schools open, roads maintained, and law enforcement patrolling," DeFazio said. "Given the looming economic disaster facing Oregon without an extension of federal county payments, this vote could not be more timely. I thank Speaker Pelosi and the House Democratic leadership for bringing this important measure to the House floor." On June 3rd, Congressman DeFazio is expected to offer H.R. 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Act, which would provide a four-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools Program. The legislation will include a change to the payment disbursement formula, transition payments to several states including Oregon, and will ramp down payments by 10% per year, through 2012. The legislation will be fully paid-for by closing a loophole in oil and gas leases. The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act expired in 2006 on President Bush’s watch with a Republican-controlled Congress. Last year, the Democratic Congress gave counties a one-year extension while Congress continued to work on a longer-term solution. The county payments program provides nearly $280 million a year to 33 Oregon counties for critical services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally-owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000 to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. DeFazio and other members of the Oregon delegation are attempting to get an extension included in the Emergency Supplemental spending bill for the War in Iraq. However, the President has said he will veto supplemental funding for anything other than the war in Iraq and world hunger. The June 3rd vote on a free standing bill will provide an alternative funding option in case the president forces leaders to strip the funding from the Emergency Supplemental spending bill.
05.22.2008	May 21, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC— Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today stood up for tax paying Americans when he offered two amendments to the 2009 Department of Defense Authorization bill, which passed the House by a vote of 383 to 26. Both amendments passed by voice vote. The first amendment ends a recent Pentagon propaganda program. The second amendment ensures that truckers, – who are suffering from record high diesel fuel prices –engaged in defense contracts, receive any fuel surcharge placed on shipped goods. The first amendment was in response to a New York Times story, which appeared in April of this year, that exposed a Pentagon program designed to convince the American public that the war in Iraq and the war on terror were going well. The program provided retired military leaders, who were frequently featured in the media, with talking points, special tours, access to high level meetings, and even classified materials to ensure they spun the war to the Pentagon’s liking. Many of these retired military leaders have financial relationships with defense contractors, creating a clear conflict of interest. DeFazio previously authored a letter, signed by 22 Members of Congress, to the Committee on Appropriations asking the committee to specifically defund this program. In reaction to these media accounts, the Department of Defense (DoD) has suspended this program pending an internal review. The amendment calls for both the DoD Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office to conduct studies of the extent to which the DoD has violated the law with their propaganda program. It also reminds the Pentagon war hawks that there has been a long standing federal prohibition on spending taxpayer money on propaganda programs. "I believe the use of deception by the Pentagon to influence the American public’s perception of the Iraq War is unhealthy to our democracy," DeFazio said. "The American public and Congress deserve the truth. The debate about the success or failure of Iraq should be made on the facts, not deceptive pundits with conflicts of interest." The second DeFazio amendment was offered to ensure fuel surcharges are passed onto independent truckers. Due to the sharp rise in the cost of transporting goods by truck, brokers are assessing fuel charges on shippers in order to cover the increased cost of hauling their goods. However, those surcharges are often not being passed onto independent truckers who are purchasing the fuel. While every American driver is impacted by these dramatic gas increases, the rise in diesel fuel costs has had a particularly significant impact on the trucking industry. Under the amendment, shippers under contract to the DoD would be required to pass through the fuel surcharge to the person who actually pays for the fuel on all trucking contracts. The broker must also disclose any fuel surcharge publicly, including posting it online, and the Secretary of Defense is directed to prescribe regulations to ensure enforcement. "This legislation will help truckers, who are hard hit by sky-rocketing fuel prices, get what is rightfully theirs," DeFazio said. "This will ease some of the pressure they are feeling at the pump and help keep them in business." DeFazio is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, which has jurisdiction over the motor carrier industry.
05.21.2008	May 20, 2008 WASHINGTON—At a Capitol Hill news conference today, the Chairmen of the House Committee on Transportation and the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit released a report finding major loopholes in drug and alcohol testing for commercial motor carrier drivers. Full Committee Chairman James L. Oberstar (Minn.), and Subcommittee Chairman Peter A. DeFazio (Ore.) called upon the U.S. Department of Transportation to toughen its regulations and increase its oversight of the collection and testing system. They further pledged to pursue legislation to create a national registry of test results to prevent drivers who test positive from hopping from state to state to obtain a commercial drivers license. Statement of The Honorable Peter A. DeFazio, Chairman Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Press conference on Findings of GAO Motor Carrier Report: Improvements to Drug Testing Programs Could Better Identify Illegal Drug Users and Keep them off the Road May 21, 2008 The results of this GAO study and investigation are shocking. I held a hearing on this issue and the interim results of the GAO report last November. What we heard then was discouraging and the final results of the report are no less troubling. No one wants drugged or drunk commercial drivers operating on our nation’s highways. Unfortunately, what is so clearly laid out in this report is that we have a loophole-ridden system when it comes to drug and alcohol testing in the motor carrier industry that allows an unknown number of truck drivers to abuse drugs and operate large trucks. As detailed in this report, there are problems with the drug tests themselves and how they are administered. There is virtually no oversight of drug testing collection sites. GAO undercover investigators found that 22 out of 24 times collection sites failed to adequately follow DOT-required protocols. They found multiple opportunities to cheat on a drug test at nearly every collection facility they investigated and the investigators had no problem smuggling in synthetic urine that fooled the labs running the tests. The report also outlines the significant problem of "job-hopping" truckers that hop from job-to-job without their past drug-use history hopping along with them. They simply don’t list jobs where they failed a drug test on their employment history. GAO found that if a driver fails a drug test with one employer he just needs to stay clean long enough to get a negative test before applying to work for another carrier. There is no real accountability. Finally, one of the most surprising findings in the report is that many drivers are not even being tested for drugs. Since 2001, FMCSA’s compliance reviews indicate that over nine percent of the carriers had no drug testing programs at all. Furthermore, a carrier can still pass a safety audit without having a drug testing program. That’s astonishing. These are significant problems. I unfortunately have very little confidence in our current system to prevent drugged and drunk truck drivers from driving on our highways. While industry reports a positive drug test rate of between 1.6 and 2 percent, a 2007 Oregon State Police operation found that out of 500 anonymous tests of commercial drivers, 9.65 percent tested positive. That’s a far cry from 2 percent. We don’t know how broken the system is, but it’s very clear that it is indeed broken. We must close loopholes in testing procedures and we need to ensure that drug abusers aren’t driving big trucks on the road. If a driver fails a drug test there must be a system in place that ensures they receive adequate treatment before being allowed to return to duty. I commend GAO for the thorough work they did in compiling this report. We clearly have our work cut out for us and I intend to introduce legislation to address these pressing issues. My legislation will: Establish a national clearinghouse of positive drug test results, and require employers to check the system as part of the hiring process; Increase oversight over collection facilities to ensure they comply with DOT regulations for testing of commercial drivers; and Strengthen enforcement over motor carriers without a drug testing program, including new entrants. Separately, I also want to look at banning products that are marketed for the sole purpose of subverting a drug test. There are no legitimate uses for these products and they should be taken off the market. Our highways are no place for commercial drivers who abuse drugs or alcohol. When drugged drivers are behind the wheel, the lives and welfare of the traveling public are at risk. I look forward to working with Chairman Oberstar and the rest of the Committee to enact legislation to close these loopholes and keep our highways safe. Statement of The Honorable James L. Oberstar Release of GAO Report, "Motor Carrier Safety: Improvements to Drug Testing Programs Could Better Identify Illegal Drug Users and Keep them Off the Road" May 21, 2008 Advancing safety on our nation’s transportation systems is among the most important responsibilities of this Committee. Today, we will unveil striking results from an investigation, conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), finding substantial loopholes in the system of drug and alcohol testing of commercial drivers. Inadequate drug and alcohol testing undermines safety on our nation’s highways. In 2006, according to the National Highway Safety Administration (NHTSA), nearly 5,000 people were killed in crashes involving large trucks, and an additional 106,000 were injured. Every one of these lives lost is a tragic reminder that we can, and must, do more to enhance safety on our roads. While illegal drug use accounts for only a small percentage of these crashes, it is well documented how severely drugs such as cocaine, marijuana, and amphetamines impair driving ability. Operating a motor vehicle under the influence of drugs or alcohol – or both – can increase crash risk anywhere from two- to six-fold. In March, 2007, a local Fox news station in Minneapolis aired a story revealing serious violations of Department of Transportation (DOT) drug and alcohol testing rules at facilities performing drug tests on commercial drivers. As a result of this report, I, along with Subcommittee Chairman DeFazio, asked GAO to investigate these conditions and their underlying causes. Last November, the Highways and Transit Subcommittee held a hearing to probe the problems with the implementation of drug and alcohol testing programs by motor carriers. From the testimony received at this hearing, including the preliminary observations from GAO, we perceived that there were serious deficiencies with the current drug and alcohol testing requirements, and that they do not successfully ensure that drivers using drugs are kept off the road. Today, our fears have been confirmed. GAO has completed its work, and what they have reported to the Committee is disturbing. One of the most surprising findings in GAO’s report is that many drivers are not even being tested for drugs. Since 2001, FMCSA’s compliance reviews indicate that over nine percent of carriers had no drug testing programs in place at all. In FMCSA’s safety audits of new carriers, 30 percent had no drug testing programs. Even more stunning is the fact that FMCSA allows a carrier to pass a safety audit without having a drug testing program in place. A second challenge is that we are not preventing drivers from subverting a drug test. When collection facilities do not follow protocols or meet Federal requirements, an opportunity exists for drug users to escape detection. GAO found serious rule violations in drug testing facilities. For example: In 22 of 24 facilities that GAO’s undercover investigators visited, DOT did not adequately follow protocols designed to prevent a driver from cheating on a test. At almost one-half of the facilities, the investigators taking the test were not required to empty their pockets, which allowed them to bring in adulterants and synthetic urine. At 75 percent of the facilities, soap, cleaning products, and other substances were available, which could be used to adulterate a test. GAO estimates that there are more than 400 products and gadgets - such as "whizzies," "UrineLuck" and "Stealth" - designed for the sole purpose of beating a drug test. They are sold on websites such as www.pass-your-drug-test.com and, unfortunately, they work. As part of their undercover work, GAO investigators substituted or adulterated eight urine samples, and not a single one was caught by the labs. There are simply no legitimate uses for these products other than to subvert a drug test and they should be banned. A third challenge is keeping drivers who use drugs off the road once they have tested positive for drug use. A driver must self-report 3 years of employment history when he or she applies for a new job, and whether he or she has had a positive pre-employment drug test or a refusal to test in that time period. If an employee admits to having had a positive test or a refusal to test, the new employer must ensure that the driver has completed a rigorous return-to-duty process, which includes evaluation by a Substance Abuse Professional and frequent testing before allowing him to drive. A driver can easily omit references to a job where the driver failed a drug test and by doing so, hide his or her drug use from a prospective new employer and skirt the return to duty process. This process is called "job-hopping." To determine whether drivers were in fact job-hopping, the Committee subpoenaed 5 years of drug test results from one medium-sized drug testing company in Texas. During that time period, the records reveal that 698 individual drivers failed a drug test with one employer, but then passed a pre-employment test for a new employer – in many cases, just weeks after failing the first test. In a briefing to Committee Members this afternoon, GAO confirmed that many of these individuals were ultimately hired by the second employer, who admitted having no knowledge of the prior failed test. It is clear from GAO’s findings that we are just beginning to scratch the surface. These are pervasive problems which need to be fixed, and the Committee plans to introduce legislation in this pursuit. Elements of the legislative proposal will include: Establish a national clearinghouse of positive, refused, and adulterated drug and alcohol test results, and require employers to query the clearinghouse as part of the hiring process; Increase oversight of collection facilities to ensure they comply with DOT regulations for testing of safety-sensitive transportation employees; and Strengthen enforcement over motor carriers without a drug testing program, including an emphasis on new entrants. The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure has a long-standing interest in DOT’s drug and alcohol testing rules. In fact, we were instrumental in creating those rules in the late 1980s. We know that they have worked, as evidenced by the declining number of commercial drivers found to be using drugs, but we also know that they could work better. We cannot afford to stand idly by. We must move forward aggressively to ensure the safety of the traveling public.
05.16.2008	One of Seven House Members Invited to Attend World Economic Forum on the Middle East May 15, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) will meet with leaders of several OPEC nations this weekend while attending the World Economic Forum on the Middle East. At the forum, being held in Egypt, DeFazio will challenge OPEC leaders to engage in the free trade principles they are bound to by their membership in the World Trade Organization. Of the 13 OPEC countries, nine are members of the WTO and 4 have observer status and have applied to join the WTO. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) will meet with leaders of several OPEC nations this weekend while attending the World Economic Forum on the Middle East. At the forum, being held in Egypt, DeFazio will challenge OPEC leaders to engage in the free trade principles they are bound to by their membership in the World Trade Organization. Of the 13 OPEC countries, nine are members of the WTO and 4 have observer status and have applied to join the WTO. "The OPEC cartel continues to restrict the supply of oil, in violation of WTO rules, artificially driving up the price of fuel. Meanwhile, America upholds its promise to abide by the harmful WTO rules sacrificing American jobs and subjecting consumers to sky high prices for oil," DeFazio said. "As a world power, we have leverage over OPEC members. Why should we continue to support the oil barons that colluded to raise the price of oil and in turn hike up prices at the pump?" In 2001, DeFazio sent a letter to President Bush urging him to take action against OPEC under WTO rules, arguing that restricting exports leads to defacto price fixing. Under Article XI of the WTO rules, member countries are prohibited from using anything other than, "duties, taxes or other charges," to limit imports or exports across their borders. Therefore, DeFazio argued that oil production quotas would violate WTO rules. President Bush, who will also be in attendance at the forum, did not take action on DeFazio’s letter and the WTO violation by OPEC has not been challenged. DeFazio plans to press the WTO violation at every opportunity with OPEC dignitaries. . At the forum, leaders from more than 55 countries will come together to discuss possible future scenarios which will impact of long-term global trends, specifically with regard to the Middle East. Also in attendance will be, Egyptian President Muhammad Husn? Mub?rak; King of Jordan, Abdullah Ibn Al Hussein; Pakistani Prime Minister Makhdoom Syed Yousef Raza Giliani; former Prime Minister of England, Tony Blair; Director-General of World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy; US Trade Representative, Susan Schwab; President of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick; Palestinian Authority President, Mahmoud Abbas; Secretary-General of the League of Arab States, Amre Moussa; Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Israel, Josette Sheeran and Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, Barham Salih. DeFazio will attend several events with these notable world leaders as one of the American representatives at the meeting.
05.14.2008	Provides Salmon Disaster Assistance, Helps American Families put Food on the Table May 13, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. DeFazio today backed a bipartisan Farm Bill that will provide critical disaster assistance for Oregon salmon fisherman, strengthen American agriculture, help families facing high food costs and makes a substantial commitment to land conservation and America’s energy independence. H.R.2419, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act, passed by a vote of 318-106. "I am pleased this valuable legislation provides much needed timely disaster assistance for salmon fisherman on Oregon’s coast, invests in conservation programs and provides support for increased organic food production," DeFazio said. Passage of the Farm Bill was particularly important to the southwest coast of Oregon where commercial salmon fishing for the 2008 season has been closed. The bill includes $170 million for critical and timely disaster assistance for Oregon fisherman who are dependent on salmon harvesting for financial survival. The season close was announced May 1st. The Farm Bill expands nutrition programs that help 38 million American families afford healthy food. The bill provides much-needed support to emergency food assistance organizations, such as food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens by increasing TEFAP funding by $1.25 billion – with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. In recent years, Oregon has been considered one of the hungriest states in the country. The bill also helps schools provide healthy snacks to students. Additionally, it expands access to locally grown fresh fruits and vegetables, and provides new funding to support organic farmers. For consumers, the measure requires that food be labeled with country of origin, giving consumers the opportunity to actively not buy food from nations that have historically produced contaminated products, such as China. To encourage conservation efforts, the Farm Bill boosts conservation programs that reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, increase wildlife habitat and reduce damage caused by floods and other natural disasters by $7.9 million. Under the bill, farmers will play a greater role in fueling our energy independence and moves America beyond corn based ethanol as the major venture for bio fuel development. The Farm Bill invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources such as biomass, switchgrass, woodchips and corn stalks. Finally, the legislation also begins to end payments to wealthy farmers who don’t need the help. The Farm Bill reduces direct farm payments by $300 million and cuts federal payments to crop insurance companies that are making windfall profits due to higher crop prices by $5.7 billion. "Congress should have eliminated more subsidies from the Farm Bill. I will continue to push for more reforms so farm aid is targeted to small farmers who actually need assistance when free trade drops prices," DeFazio said. The Farm Bill now heads to the White House for President Bush’s signature.
04.30.2008	April 30, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) worked successfully with the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to ensure that Lane Transit District (LTD) can provide shuttle service for athletes, spectators and media at the up-coming U.S. Olympic Track and Field Team trials. The final decision on the shuttle service was announced today. There was concern that the shuttle service would not be available because, in January the FTA announced a new rule for public agencies providing bus charter service. The rule, which becomes effective on April 30th, puts new restrictions on when public transit agencies may provide charter service. However, there is a waiver from the rule for events of "regional or national significance" that would allow LTD to provide service for the Trials regardless of interest from private charter operators. Clearly the U.S. Olympic Trials is such an event. "I spoke directly with the FTA Administrator to explain the great importance of the Track and Field Olympic Trials for the entire region. The City of Eugene, the University of Oregon, the Oregon Track Club, LTD, and the entire community have put together a world-class event," DeFazio said. "I am pleased with the announcement today that LTD will be granted a waiver to provide charter service for the Olympic Trials." DeFazio is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit which has jurisdiction over the FTA. He has concerns with this new charter service rule and plans to continue to monitor its implementation.
04.30.2008	April 30, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) hailed passage today of his bill, H.R. 274, legislation to designate a trail in the Willamette National Forest as the "Jim Weaver Loop Trail." The bill passed today by a vote of 291 to 117 as part of S.2739, the Consolidated Natural Resources Act. The trail, in Lane County, Oregon, was named after former Oregon Congressman Jim Weaver, who represented the fourth congressional district of Oregon for 12 years. The path goes around the world-renowned Waldo Lake, ranked one of the purest bodies of water on Earth and one of Oregon's largest natural lakes. The legislation would also designate this 22-mile trail as a national recreational trail under the National Trails System Act. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) hailed passage today of his bill, H.R. 274, legislation to designate a trail in the Willamette National Forest as the "Jim Weaver Loop Trail." The bill passed today by a vote of 291 to 117 as part of S.2739, the Consolidated Natural Resources Act. The trail, in Lane County, Oregon, was named after former Oregon Congressman Jim Weaver, who represented the fourth congressional district of Oregon for 12 years. The path goes around the world-renowned Waldo Lake, ranked one of the purest bodies of water on Earth and one of Oregon's largest natural lakes. The legislation would also designate this 22-mile trail as a national recreational trail under the National Trails System Act. "Naming this trail for Congressman Jim Weaver is a fitting tribute to his legacy as an advocate for outdoor recreation and as a protector of some of Oregon's most treasured natural features," DeFazio said. "During his time in Congress, one of Jim's top priorities was natural resource conservation, including a strong commitment to protecting Waldo Lake and the surrounding area. Generations of Oregonians will benefit from Jim's efforts to keep Waldo Lake pristine and pure." "Congressman Weaver was my predecessor in Congress, my boss and, most importantly, he is my friend," DeFazio continued. "I am pleased Congress is recognizing his extraordinary efforts to protect Oregon's natural resources and wilderness, and to forever associate his name with an area he loves and has worked hard to protect." The bill is cosponsored by all five members of Oregon's congressional delegation, and is supported by the U.S. Forest Service and a number of local interest groups. In addition to naming the trail, DeFazio's legislation includes the installation and maintenance of a sign at the trailhead to provide information about the life and work of Congressman Weaver. The bill now goes to the President for his signature.
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) testified before the Surface Transportation Board today. His testimony, as prepared for delivery, is below: Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) testified before the Surface Transportation Board today. His testimony, as prepared for delivery, is below: Testimony of the Honorable Peter A. DeFazio Member of Congress Surface Transportation Board Hearing on Railroads’ Common Carrier Obligation April 24, 2008 Chairman Nottingham, Vice Chairman Mulvey, and Board Member Buttrey, I thank you for the opportunity to address the Board today on the issue of the common carrier obligation of railroads. Access to rail is a nationwide issue and one that my congressional district in Oregon is all too familiar with. I will focus my remarks today on two of the issues that the Board requested comments on in relation to the common carrier obligation: carrier-imposed requirements for infrastructure investments by shippers and the proper use of rail embargoes. First, I would like to frame my comments around a rail problem currently affecting a large portion of my district, in which a short line railroad has refused to comply with its common carrier obligation. Last September the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP), a subsidiary of RailAmerica, Inc. (RailAmerica), announced it was shutting down service on its Coos Bay line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon due to unsafe tunnel conditions. The CORP line is vital for shippers and industry along the south coast of Oregon and CORP gave less than 24 hours notice it would be shutting the line down, leaving shippers suddenly without a viable way to get their goods to market. At my request, the Federal Railroad Administration inspected the tunnels and their inspection confirmed that the line had been allowed to deteriorate to such a degree that repairs are necessary before safe operations of the line can resume. While there were known problems with the Coos Bay line, CORP never communicated to its customers or the Oregon Department of Transportation that the line had deteriorated so badly that an emergency closure might be necessary. Furthermore, RailAmerica had owned the line for ten years at the time of the embargo and had clearly not made the basic investments necessary to ensure the line was safe for operation. As RailAmerica testified to at a House Rail Subcommittee hearing in March, when Fortress Investment purchased RailAmerica last year they did their due diligence and knew full well the state of disrepair of the Coos Bay line. I fear this lack of investment is not unique to RailAmerica and that short line customers across the country will soon face the same consequences due to lack of investment. After giving less than 24 hours notice to shippers along the Coos Bay line, according to press reports at the time, CORP then used the line to remove equipment. If the line was safe enough to make one last trip to bring in company equipment, why was it not safe enough to move one last load for shippers? What’s worse is that in its press release announcing the closure, a manager for CORP was quoted as saying "The Coos Bay line just doesn’t have enough business on it today to justify us making the repairs." So, was it the unsafe tunnels that forced them to embargo the line or the fact that they weren’t making enough money? If it’s the latter, that is clearly a violation of the common carrier obligation. The impact of this embargo on my district was swift and far-reaching. The week after the closure, a Georgia-Pacific sawmill temporarily shut down, laying off 120 employees for more than two weeks. The average shipper along the Coos Bay line now pays 10 – 15 percent more in shipping costs because they have to use trucks. For a small business, that’s an increase that is too much to bear for long. The State of Oregon, the Port of Coos Bay and shippers along the line are now engaged in a protracted battle with CORP and RailAmerica to restore service to the south coast. Last fall, CORP said it would cost approximately $2.9 million to repair three tunnels in order to reopen the line. That was soon followed by a proposal to the State that would cost over $23 million to "restore the line to the status quo." As part of the proposal, CORP and RailAmerica wanted the State, the Port of Coos Bay, shippers, and the Union Pacific Railroad to each pay $4.66 million to restore the line and a large operating subsidy. The Governor has clearly stated he wants to see CORP make the necessary repairs to get the line up and running before he will consider investing any state money. I firmly believe that all involved are willing to pay more for service, but no one in Oregon is convinced CORP is serious about fulfilling its common carrier obligation after the investment is made. Frankly, this situation begs the question as to why, if CORP is as serious about offering service as they say they are, did they not work with shippers to fix the line before embargoing it? RailAmerica had engineering firm Shannon and Wilson conduct a study of the line between March 30 and July 9, 2007. Seventy-three days later CORP embargoed the line. In 73 days it seems shippers could have been approached about paying increased rates to improve the line. The common carrier obligation should require carriers to impose requirements for infrastructure investments by shippers before an embargo, not after. The Board recently released a decision that directed RailAmerica to prove its embargo of the Coos Bay line is not an unlawful abandonment. In that decision the Board stated that a "carrier is not given a free pass to choose not to serve just because of circumstances that make it difficult or expensive to provide service." Clearly CORP and RailAmerica have decided the Coos Bay line is not worth investing in and instead of abandoning the line and allowing another carrier to offer service, they continue to sit on a public asset, which benefits no one. It is too easy for railroads not to invest in the maintenance of lines and then to use the deteriorated track as an excuse to embargo. They then have an easy out for filing for abandonment, or in the case of RailAmerica, they can hold a state and shippers hostage until their ransom is paid. An embargo allows a carrier to suspend its duty to fulfill its common carrier obligation and that can be necessary for a short while in order to make repairs. But how long can the embargo go on before the carrier is no longer meeting its common carrier obligation? What’s a "reasonable" amount of time for an embargo before the carrier must make the necessary investments to make the line safe for operation? In the case of CORP and RailAmerica, the Coos Bay line has been embargoed for seven months. In that time they have made no commitment to fix the line, other than to ask others to foot the majority of the bill. There are shippers on that line that have made a reasonable request for service. At what point is CORP violating its common carrier obligation? I contend that what may have started as a proper embargo has now become an improper use of an embargo. While I commend the Board for the action you have taken thus far in the Coos Bay case, I encourage you to exercise greater regulatory authority over rail embargoes and those railroads that use embargoes to shirk their common carrier obligation. Shippers shouldn’t have to go through the expensive and time-intensive process of appealing an embargo to the STB, a process that is intimidating to small shippers that often don’t have the resources to file a case. In recent months the Board has taken great steps to make it easier for small and medium shippers to challenge rates and to require more disclosure for paper barrier agreements. The Board must do more to protect shippers from the improper use of rail embargoes. At the very least, carriers should have to give more notice to shippers when they intend to embargo a line. If the Board doesn’t have the authority to change its regulations, as a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a member of the Subcommittee on Railroads, I stand ready to work with you to give you that authority. I intend to consider legislation to give the Board more independent enforcement authority and to give shippers more rights when a line has been embargoed. I am also interested in more regulation of investment in the rail industry, which is a topic for another day. Again, I thank you for the opportunity to testify today and look forward to working with you on this issue.
04.22.2008	April 22, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) was pleased today by the full House passage of his bill, H.R. 3513, the Copper Salmon Wilderness Act of 2007. The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act would permanently protect nearly 13,000 acres in the headwaters of the Elk River on the southern coast of Oregon, and designate more than 11 additional miles of the river as either Wild or Scenic under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. The legislation also protects some of the last remaining stands of Port-Orford-cedar in the Elk River watershed. –Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) was pleased today by the full House passage of his bill, H.R. 3513, the Copper Salmon Wilderness Act of 2007. The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act would permanently protect nearly 13,000 acres in the headwaters of the Elk River on the southern coast of Oregon, and designate more than 11 additional miles of the river as either Wild or Scenic under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. The legislation also protects some of the last remaining stands of Port-Orford-cedar in the Elk River watershed. "Copper Salmon is truly a rare coastal Oregon gem. It is almost entirely intact ancient forest, which supports healthy fish runs and great elk herds, blacktailed deer, bears, and other wildlife," DeFazio said. "This is an area that deserves protection for the enjoyment of future generations and I am happy that Congress voted today to recognize that fact." Renowned among fishermen, the Elk River watershed is one of the last intact watersheds on the southwest Oregon Coast and is widely regarded as Oregon’s last, best, coastal salmon and steelhead stream. Oregon State University researchers have concluded that the Elk River is one of the healthiest habitats in the lower 48 states for anadromous fish, and the stream is home to chinook salmon, winter steelhead, coho salmon, cutthroat trout, and rainbow trout. The watershed also has the distinction as one of the most productive salmon and steelhead rivers outside of Alaska. Diverse stakeholders have been working together for more than a decade to gain broad support for protecting the Copper Salmon area. H.R. 3513 enjoys backing from a wide array of interests including the Curry County commissioners, local elected officials, the local Chamber of Commerce, hunting and fishing groups, tribes, the timber industry, and all local conservation groups. "I am pleased that a wide array of stakeholders was able to come together and permanently protect this magnificent wilderness," DeFazio said. "The House action taken today is a big step toward ensuring that the Copper Salmon Wilderness will be enjoyed by generations to come." The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act must now be passed by the Senate before it can go to the President to be signed into law.
04.18.2008	April 17, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has been working with the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to ensure that Lane Transit District (LTD) can provide shuttle service for athletes, spectators and media at the up-coming U.S. Olympic Track and Field Team trials. There was concern that the shuttle service would not be available because, in January the FTA announced a new rule for public agencies providing bus charter service. The rule, which becomes effective on April 30th, puts new restrictions on when public transit agencies may provide charter service. However, there is a waiver from the rule for events of "regional or national significance" that would allow LTD to provide service for the Trials regardless of interest from private charter operators. Clearly the U.S. Olympic Trials is such an event. "I have spoken directly with the FTA Administrator to explain the great importance of the Track and Field Olympic Trials for the entire region. The City of Eugene, the University of Oregon, the Oregon Track Club, LTD, and the entire community have put together a world-class event. While FTA’s decision won’t be announced until April 30th, I have every confidence that LTD will be granted a waiver to provide charter service for the Olympic Trials." DeFazio is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit which has jurisdiction over the FTA. He has concerns with this new charter service rule and plans to continue to monitor its implementation.
04.18.2008	April 17, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) sent a letter to Rep. David Obey, Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, requesting that he include funding to repair the Coos Bay jetty and the Port of Port Orford in the final FY 2008 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) sent a letter to Rep. David Obey, Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, requesting that he include funding to repair the Coos Bay jetty and the Port of Port Orford in the final FY 2008 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. "It is imperative that the damage done in Coos Bay and Port Orford be repaired in a timely manner," DeFazio said. "Not only is the damage having a devastating effect on the economy of the Coastal Oregon but, if the jetty and sharing aren’t not fixed soon, they will continue to deteriorate and the price of fixing them will rapidly escalate." Last December, a powerful storm hit the Oregon coast, bringing with it hurricane-force winds and heavy rains that caused considerable damage to the state. The Port of Coos Bay, which is the largest deep-draft coastal harbor between San Francisco Bay and Puget Sound suffered significant damage to its north jetty. If emergency repairs are not undertaken, the Army Corps of Engineers expects it to breach next winter. Repair of the jetty is essential, as a significant breach would have major impacts on navigation and would prohibit any useful function of the jetty, severely impacting operations at the Port, which is Oregon’s second busiest maritime commerce center. Additionally, the cost to repair the jetty after a breach would cost dramatically more than it would to repair it now. The Port of Port Orford, which is home to over 60 commercial fishing vessels and another 250 recreational boaters, suffered significant shoaling during the same storm. The harbor has been filled with sand, and as a result, boats have been unable to launch, and commercial fishing has declined by 50 percent. In a community where the economy is heavily dependent on the commercial fishing industry, this has had a devastating financial impact on Port Orford. The Administration’s emergency supplemental funding request for Fiscal Year 2008 includes $2,800,000 for the Port of Coos Bay to repair its north jetty and $350,000 to repair the shoaling at Port Orford.
04.17.2008	April 16, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) reacted strongly to the announcement by American Rivers, a conservation organization, that the Rogue River is the second most endangered river in the country. American Rivers faulted proposals by the Bush Administration to build miles of roads and log thousands of acres of old growth forest around the Rogue River and its tributaries as the reason for the endangered listing. "I thought that as one of the original rivers protected under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act in 1968, the Rogue would have been off limits to threats like road building and old growth logging," DeFazio said. "Obviously I was wrong, because the Bush Administration thinks it is more important to log the area and build roads than it is to protect this amazing river." "The Rogue is one of our country’s original Wild and Scenic Rivers and is a national treasure," said Rebecca Wodder, president of American Rivers. "We have a responsibility to protect the Rogue for all of the communities and businesses that rely on it, and for all Americans who love to fish and boat here. We applaud Representative DeFazio for his leadership on making sure future generations can experience a truly wild, beautiful and healthy Rogue River." In 1968, Congress protected 84 miles of the lower Rogue River under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act due to the River’s "outstandingly remarkable values" of high water quality, excellent fishery, and recreational opportunities. The river is Oregon’s second largest producer of salmon, in large part because of the clear, cold water its tributaries provide to the main stem of the Rogue. Unfortunately, the designation did not protect most of the river’s significant tributaries. The tributaries provide spawning and rearing habitat for winter and summer steelhead and coho salmon and are critical to the water quality and temperature of the main stem. Furthermore, all five runs of Pacific salmon are found in the Rogue River, which flows 200 miles to the Pacific Ocean. "The Rogue is an amazing river. Millions of people come to Oregon every year just to hike, fish, raft, and write about the Rogue," DeFazio said. "These nature-based activities also infuse millions of dollars into local economies, which depend on the unspoiled character of this area. If we don’t take care of it and protect it for future generations, Zane Grey’s novels will be the only place our kids will be able to glimpse this magnificent river." "Earlier this month, Congressman Blumenauer and I announced our ‘Oregon Treasures’ proposal to expand protection for three of Oregon’s greatest natural assets," DeFazio noted. "I had no idea that our proposal would be so urgently needed. Now that the Rogue River and its tributaries have the dubious distinction of being the second most endangered river in the country, it is clear that Congress needs to step in and protect this river once and for all!" American River’s report, America’s Most Endangered Rivers of 2008, is available at: https://www.americanrivers.org/MERPressroom
04.15.2008	April 15, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Jerry Costello (D-IL) John Duncan (R-TN) and Thomas Petri (WI-06) all senior members of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Oberstar, introduced legislation today that will ban the use of cell phones on in-flight planes. The European Union recently announced that it will allow people to talk on their cell phones while a plane is in-flight on all commercial airlines. Additionally, U.S. airlines are already experimenting with in-flight Internet access. In-flight voice communication poses a potential revenue source for airlines both because they could charge passengers to sit in a non-talking section and charge people to use their phones. H.R. 5788, the HANG UP Act, Halting Airplane Noise to Give Us Peace Act, would insure that voice communication does not happen on U.S. flights. —Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Jerry Costello (D-IL) John Duncan (R-TN) and Thomas Petri (WI-06) all senior members of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Oberstar, introduced legislation today that will ban the use of cell phones on in-flight planes. The European Union recently announced that it will allow people to talk on their cell phones while a plane is in-flight on all commercial airlines. Additionally, U.S. airlines are already experimenting with in-flight Internet access. In-flight voice communication poses a potential revenue source for airlines both because they could charge passengers to sit in a non-talking section and charge people to use their phones. H.R. 5788, the HANG UP Act, Halting Airplane Noise to Give Us Peace Act, would insure that voice communication does not happen on U.S. flights. "The public doesn’t want to be subjected to people talking on their cell phones on an already over-packed airplane," DeFazio said. "However, with Internet access just around the corner on U.S. flights, it won’t be long before the ban on voice communications on in-flight planes is lifted. Our bill, the HANG UP Act, would ensure that financially strapped airlines don’t drive us towards this noisome disruption in search of further revenue." "Last year was one of the worst on record for flight cancellations, delays and lost luggage. Now is not the time to consider making the airline passenger-experience any worse, and using cell phones in-flight would do just that," said Costello. "Polls show that the American public is strongly opposed to allowing cell phone use in-flight. They don’t just oppose the idea, they hate it, and the HANG UP Act will make sure it does not happen." "Cell phone users should not be able to disrupt the comfort of an entire airplane cabin, especially when other passengers have no choice but to sit there and listen," said Duncan. "This bill will ensure a relative amount of peace for the American public as they take to an increasingly crowded sky." The legislation only prohibits voice communications in-flight but passengers would still be able to access the Internet, e-mail and send text messages as these technologies become available on airplanes. In-flight voice use of cell phones is overwhelmingly opposed by consumers. Sixty-three percent of those responding to a poll sponsored by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA and the National Consumers League were against it. Just 21% of people favored removing restrictions on using cell phones in flight. Aside from the obvious courtesy issues, flight attendants have safety concerns with in-flight voice communication. If voice communication is permitted, passengers are likely to not pay attention to safety announcements and flight attendants could be forced to referee fights resulting from loud conversations. "The free market wasn’t adequate to regulate smoking on planes and it won’t be sufficient to regulate cell phones either," DeFazio said. "I am pleased that we are taking steps to stop this disruption before it becomes an issue for American consumers."
04.11.2008	April 10, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted this week to protect American workers from an unfair trade agreement and the right of Congress to set its own legislative agenda. The Colombia FTA would cost Americans jobs and encourage anti-union violence in Colombia. In response, the House of Representatives reiterated its role as the People’s House and denied the President an unrealistic, unjust free trade agreement.— Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted this week to protect American workers from an unfair trade agreement and the right of Congress to set its own legislative agenda. The Colombia FTA would cost Americans jobs and encourage anti-union violence in Colombia. In response, the House of Representatives reiterated its role as the People’s House and denied the President an unrealistic, unjust free trade agreement."After thirty years of bad trade policy, our manufacturing has been cut in half, the middle class is losing ground, and we’re borrowing $2 billion a day from the rest of the world -- including communist China -- to pay for things we used to make here in America. And, President Bush thinks we should do more of the same." DeFazio said. "Congress, until now, has never had a spine to stand up to one of these outrageous agreements. I am proud of my record of never voting for a free trade agreement. Every single FTA that Congress has passed has harmed America."Previous trade agreements like NAFTA, CAFTA and the WTO have led to the export of millions of high-paying American jobs to low wage havens like China and Mexico; an erosion in U.S. living standards; soaring trade deficits and an increasing reliance on foreign investors to finance these deficits, threatening our economic and national security; a significant erosion of U.S. sovereignty to international trade bureaucrats; and the dumping of subsidized foreign goods, including agricultural products, into the US.According to the Oregon Blue Book, between 2000 and 2005, the U.S. government issued 205 Trade Adjustment Assistance certifications relating to Oregon layoffs, caused by NAFTA. These certifications were for more than 13,000 Oregon workers who lost their jobs as a direct result of NAFTA. In addition to NAFTA’s damaging effects, Oregon has lost more than 40,000 trade jobs due to failed trade agreements since 1994. To download the video of Congressman DeFazio speaking about the Colombia Free Trade Agreement on the floor of the House of Representatives, visit his website at the following url: https://www.defazio.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=117&Itemid=
04.03.2008	April 2, 2008 Washington D.C. – This week, Democratic members of the Oregon House delegation received a response to a letter sent last month to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The letter, spearheaded by Representative DeFazio (D-Springfield), and signed by Representatives Wu (D-Portland), Blumenauer (D-Portland), and Hooley (D-Salem), was sent to support Gov. Kulongoski’s request for an improved licensing procedure for liquid natural gas (LNG) facilities. FERC’s response said they intend to let the market decide whether any of the five pending LNG projects in the state go forward. The Representatives responses to the letter are below: “FERC basically blew off the concerns expressed in our letter. Now, the state of Oregon is going to waste a huge amount of time investigating several plans, at great cost to state taxpayers, most of which will not even come to fruition,” DeFazio said. “I don’t believe Oregonians should have their concerns railroaded by a deregulated market, unchallenged by an ideological laissez-faire FERC.” “I am not satisfied with FERC’s assessment of Oregon’s ability to participate in the LNG siting process,” said Wu. “I will continue to fight for increased state and local authority, and meaningful input from the affected communities. FERC’s narrow focus ignores the larger compounding impact of these facilities on the local community, industry, and public services.” “Last week the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the state of Oregon signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to coordinate review of wave energy projects in state waters off the coast of Oregon. Clearly FERC, when it wants to, has the ability and interest in working with the State - which makes their dismissal of our request on LNG all that more disappointing,” Hooley said. “Essentially they are saying they will approve as many projects as they see fit and Oregon will have to deal with the consequences as they arise.” Below, is the letter sent to FERC: Joseph T. Kelliher Chairman Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 88 First St, NE Washington DC 20426 Dear Chairman Kelliher: We are writing in general support of Governor Kulongoski’s February 14th letter to you regarding the licensing of liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities in Oregon. Like the Governor, we too have not taken an absolute position on LNG facilities in Oregon, but we are concerned about the inadequacy of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) licensing process. We believe the Governor has raised some very important concerns that the FERC should not ignore. Our constituents deserve clear answers to the questions the Governor has raised and we implore FERC to provide those answers. As you know, the proposed LNG facilities in Oregon do pose some significant environmental and safety challenges, while the question of need is being left to the market to answer. We would appreciate FERC’s insight and expertise into the question of need, before our constituents are asked to grapple with the safety and environmental obstacles. And finally, we encourage FERC to work collaboratively with the State of Oregon because we believe that there are several state agencies that can offer significant resources regarding the question of siting an LNG facility in Oregon. To not engage these readily available resources that can help you work though the unique challenges posed by Oregon’s coastline, mountains and endangered species would be a missed opportunity. We urge FERC to engage the State of Oregon in resolving their concerns as quickly as possible. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio David Wu Member of Congress Member of Congress Darlene Hooley Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Member of Congress
04.03.2008	April 2, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) reacted strongly today to testimony heard in the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure hearing on the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) safety oversight of airlines. The hearing was in reaction to results from an oversight investigation conducted by the committee when whistle blowers exposed that Southwest Airlines, with FAA complicity, allowed at least 117 of its aircraft to fly with passengers in violation of Federal Aviation Regulations. Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) reacted strongly today to testimony heard in the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure hearing on the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) safety oversight of airlines. The hearing was in reaction to results from an oversight investigation conducted by the committee when whistle blowers exposed that Southwest Airlines, with FAA complicity, allowed at least 117 of its aircraft to fly with passengers in violation of Federal Aviation Regulations. "This is just another example of the Bush Administration’s rampant deregulation fervor putting Americans at serious risk. The FAA is a regulatory agency that is far too cozy with the airlines it's supposed to regulate," DeFazio said. "The hearing raised serious questions about whether officials in FAA are carrying out their safety responsibilities for the entire industry. It is completely unacceptable that we allow life-and-death safety measures to be ignored in favor of promoting industry." Congressman DeFazio is a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee where he serves on the aviation subcommittee. He has been intimately involved in aviation safety issues since joining the committee. In 1996 DeFazio introduced a bill, that became law, which forced the FAA to focus only on aviation safety and not the promotion of the industry. Prior to that time, the FAA had a duel mission to both promote and regulate the industry. "I am disappointed and frankly, disturbed, to see that under the Bush Administration the FAA has reverted back to serving the industry as opposed to ensuring the safety of passengers," DeFazio said. DeFazio’s observation and concern about the FAA’s relationship with the airline industry was echoed in the testimony at the hearing by U.S. Department of Transportation Inspector General Calvin Scovel. "We found that FAA’s Southwest inspection office developed an overly collaborative relationship with the air carrier which repeatedly self-disclosed AD violations without ensuring that a comprehensive solution was implemented. The balance has tipped too heavily in favor of collaboration, at the expense of oversight and appropriate enforcement," Scovel said.
04.02.2008	Legislation Would Protect Rare, Intact Coastal Ecosystems April 1, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman DeFazio (D-Springfield) is pleased to announce that the House Natural Resources Committee today approved H.R. 3513, the Copper Salmon Wilderness Act of 2007. The bill would permanently protect nearly 13,000 acres in the headwaters of the Elk River on the southern coast of Oregon, and designate more than 11 additional miles of the river as either wild or scenic under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. The bill unanimously passed out of the Committee. "This legislation would protect some of the last remaining stands of Port-Orford-cedar in the Elk River watershed, which has the distinction as one of the most productive salmon and steelhead rivers outside of Alaska. This is rugged, wild territory, and I am thrilled that it may finally become wilderness in the 110th Congress," DeFazio said. Renowned among fishermen, the Elk River watershed is one of the last intact watersheds on the southwest Oregon Coast and is widely regarded as Oregon’s last, best coastal salmon and steelhead stream. Oregon State University researchers have concluded that the Elk River is one of the healthiest habitats in the lower 48 states for anadromous fish, and the stream is home to chinook salmon, winter steelhead, coho salmon, cutthroat trout, and rainbow trout. Diverse stakeholders have been working together for more than a decade to gain broad support for protecting the Copper Salmon area. H.R. 3513 enjoys backing from a wide array of interests including Curry County Commissioners, local elected officials, the local Chamber of Commerce, hunting and fishing groups, tribes, the timber industry, and all local conservation groups. "Copper Salmon is truly a rare coastal Oregon gem. It is almost entirely intact ancient forest, which supports healthy fish runs and great elk herds, blacktailed deer, bears, and other wildlife. It is adjacent to the existing Grassy Knob Wilderness, and combined, these two areas will be one of the largest intact areas of forest in the Coast Range. This is a region that deserves protection for the enjoyment of future generations." The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act now heads to the House floor for consideration.
04.01.2008	Oregon Treasures Vision Includes Mt. Hood, Oregon Caves, and Wild Rogue April 1, 2008 Washington D.C. – Today Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and EarlBlumenauer (D-Ore.) announced their plan for increasing Wilderness and Wild and Scenic Rivers in Oregon this year. Their vision includes adding approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness, 79.6 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers, and 34,550 acres of National Recreation Areas to the Mt. Hood National Forest. It also calls for over 142 miles of new Wild and Scenic rivers for Rogue River tributaries, and adds protection for the Oregon Caves National Monument. – Today Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and EarlBlumenauer (D-Ore.) announced their plan for increasing Wilderness and Wild and Scenic Rivers in Oregon this year. Their vision includes adding approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness, 79.6 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers, and 34,550 acres of National Recreation Areas to the Mt. Hood National Forest. It also calls for over 142 miles of new Wild and Scenic rivers for Rogue River tributaries, and adds protection for the Oregon Caves National Monument. "Our beautiful state has so many places that are worthy of congressional recognition," Congressman DeFazio noted. "I am thrilled to be able to work with my colleague Congressman Blumenauer to bring protection to just a few of them. From the tributaries of the Wild Rogue, to the Cave Creek watershed, to the iconic Mt. Hood, we have an historic opportunity to leave a natural legacy for the next generation." "These unique places are indeed worthy of protection," said Congressman Blumenauer. "I have worked for over five years on a proposal to protect Mt. Hood for future generations. Throughout that process, I have been amazed at the number of Oregonians who care deeply about increasing Wilderness areas and Wild and Scenic Rivers on the mountain. I look forward to working with Congressman DeFazio and the entire Oregon delegation to pass a bill that protects Mt. Hood and other Oregon treasures. I strongly encourage the Senate to consider our proposal." The "Oregon Treasures" proposal would include areas proposed for wilderness and wild and scenic rivers protection in the Senate’s pending Lewis and Clark Mt Hood Wilderness bill, with an additional 6500 acres of wilderness in the Mt. Hood National Forest. These areas include: the Salmon Huckleberry "Keyhole," Bluegrass Ridge, and Boulder Lake. The proposal would also add over 142 miles of tributaries to the Lower Rogue Wild and Scenic River, and increase drinking water protection and public recreation opportunities for the Oregon Caves National Monument with a 4,000 acre boundary adjustment. In 2006, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5025, the "Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act." In 2007, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee passed the Lewis and Clark Mt. Hood Wilderness Bill of 2007, but the bill has yet to clear the full Senate.
04.01.2008	Scientific Team Fails To Support Findings In WOPR April 1, 2008 WASHINGTON (DC)—Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) was surprised to learn that the long-awaited seven agency scientific review of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) Western Oregon Plan Revision (WOPR), which failed to pass scientific review, has been buried on BLM’s website for several weeks. Today, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) was surprised to learn that the long-awaited seven agency scientific review of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) Western Oregon Plan Revision (WOPR), which failed to pass scientific review, has been buried on BLM’s website for several weeks. The BLM convened the Science Team in September 2005, to advise the agency on scientific issues. In its review of WOPR the Science Team concluded that WOPR suffered from several critical errors: overestimating the amount of available habitat for key species, underestimating the environmental effects of the revision, using models without verifying accuracy, failing to incorporate social and scientific uncertainty into its assumptions, and failing to utilize the best available science in its analysis. The Review examined all resources affected by WOPR, including wildlife, socioeconomics, water, and timber. "I am shocked that the BLM appears to have quietly sat on the findings from its own Science Team," Congressman DeFazio said. "This doesn’t pass any credible attempt to fully disseminate this report and make the public aware that the Team’s findings were even available. Given the Science Team took issue with much of the findings in the WOPR, the BLM leaves the impression that it didn’t want this report to be widely known anytime soon." The Team includes federal and state scientists with experience in a variety of natural and social sciences. Team members are scientists from the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, United States Geological Survey, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Oregon Department of Forestry, Forest Service Pacific Northwest Research Station, and the BLM. In response to a sweetheart settlement agreement with the timber industry, the BLM is considering revising the six western Oregon resource management plans that dictate management on 2.1 million acres of public land in southwest Oregon. This plan is commonly known as the Western Oregon Planning Revision, or WOPR. The agency released the draft environmental impact statement for its proposal in August 2007, which called for a 700% increase in logging on these lands. The BLM is expected to make a decision on the revisions sometime in the next several months. "The WOPR is based on the fatally flawed 2007 draft spotted owl recovery plan, which itself has already failed three different scientific peer reviews. I have told the BLM and proponents of WOPR that continued reliance on this plan revision process to meet unrealistic timber harvest levels is ludicrous. It now appears that even the BLM’s own science team agrees." DeFazio also said, "If WOPR cannot stand under its own weight, it is time for Congress to step in and provide clear direction for these forests." The Science Team’s review is available on the BLM’s WOPR website: https://www.blm.gov/or/plans/wopr/files/Science_Team_Review_DEIS.pdf.
03.13.2008	March 13, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark (D- CA) joined together today to introduce The Physician Payment Sunshine Act. This legislation builds on existing laws in Minnesota, Vermont, Maine and West Virginia to require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to publicly report any gifts with a value of $25 dollars or more provided to doctors in connection with their marketing activities. Under the new legislation, this information would be made widely available to the public. This bill will provide much needed transparency into the increasingly corrosive relationship between the pharmaceutical and medical device industries and American physicians. This legislation is the companion bill to S.2029, introduced by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Herb Kohl (D-WI). "Americans are being gouged by pharmaceutical companies that spend more on marketing than they do on research and development," DeFazio said. "They enjoy generous subsidies from the government, but have no accountability when it comes to the billions of dollars they spend promoting high priced drugs. I am proud to introduce this legislation which would shine a light on the marketing practices of drug companies and give patients the information they need to make an informed decision about their healthcare." "Patients deserve to know if doctors are on the take," said Stark. "Gifts and payments change doctors’ behavior. If they didn’t, drug, device, and medical supply companies wouldn’t bother. The Sunshine Act will help enable Medicare beneficiaries to determine if their doctors are acting in patients’ best interests. It may even convince doctors to quit taking what can only be described as industry kickbacks." Pharmaceutical Companies spend over $19 billion dollars a year in direct marketing to Physicians. This marketing comes in the form of lavish trips, meals, speaking fees and honoraria. Over 94% of physicians admit to receiving these gifts every year, with many receiving payments in excess of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. A report in the Journal of the American Medical Association showed that these gifts influence the clinical decisions of doctors. Recently, two of the largest drug companies in America were found to have been paying doctors hundreds of millions of dollars to prescribe their anemia medications that were recently found to be unsafe at commonly used doses. "If the billions of dollars drug companies spend taking doctors on trips to the Caribbean and to expensive dinners at the country’s finest restaurants are above-board, then the pharmaceutical industry should support our legislation," DeFazio said. "This bill will keep the pharmaceutical industry honest." The legislation is supported by the following groups: The Prescription Project / Community Catalyst Consumers Union Committee of Interns and Residents American Medical Student Association (AMSA) Medicare Rights Center HealthPartners Health Plan, MN Health Partners Medical Group, MN MN Senior Federation National Physicians Alliance National Women's Health Network USAction No Free Lunch Gray Panthers Mississippi Human Services Coalition Mon Valley Unemployed Committee Pharmacist Planning Services
03.11.2008	March 11, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and his Oregon democratic colleagues in the House sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to support Gov. Kulongoski’s request for an improved licensing procedure for liquid natural gas (LNG) facilities. WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and his Oregon democratic colleagues in the House sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to support Gov. Kulongoski’s request for an improved licensing procedure for liquid natural gas (LNG) facilities. The DeFazio letter sEEKS FERCs expertise on the actual need for LNG facilities. This issue is of particular concern to Oregon, where the there are THREE proposed LNG facilities that pose some significant environmental and safety challenges. "With the potential environmental and safety risks of LNG, there is a significant need for a stronger state rile in the licensing process" DeFazio said. "It is my sincere hope that the FERC will step up to the plate and protect Oregonians as the plans for these LNG facilities go forward." The text of the letter is below: Joseph T. Kelliher Chairman Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 88 First St, NE Washington DC 20426 Dear Chairman Kelliher: We are writing in general support of Governor Kulongoski’s February 14th letter to you regarding the licensing of liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities in Oregon. Like the Governor, we too have not taken an absolute position on LNG facilities in Oregon, but we are concerned about the inadequacy of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) licensing process. We believe the Governor has raised some very important concerns that the FERC should not ignore. Our constituents deserve clear answers to the questions the Governor has raised and we implore FERC to provide those answers. As you know, the proposed LNG facilities in Oregon do pose some significant environmental and safety challenges, while the question of need is being left to the market to answer. We would appreciate FERC’s insight and expertise into the question of need, before our constituents are asked to grapple with the safety and environmental obstacles. And finally, we encourage FERC to work collaboratively with the State of Oregon because we believe that there are several state agencies that can offer significant resources regarding the question of siting an LNG facility in Oregon. To not engage these readily available resources that can help you work though the unique challenges posed by Oregon’s coastline, mountains and endangered species would be a missed opportunity. We urge FERC to engage the State of Oregon in resolving their concerns as quickly as possible. Sincerely, Peter A. DeFazio David Wu Member of Congress Member of Congress Darlene Hooley Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Member of Congress
03.11.2008	March 10, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today urged Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters to halt the Mexican trucking pilot program following the Inspector General’s (IG) report on the issue. The Department of Transportation (DOT) is continuing with this program despite the expressed will of Congress in the FY 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act that it be halted. Furthermore, the IG reported that the DOT had not implemented quality control measures that were intended to ensure that all trucks coming into the United States under the pilot program are identified. "Mexican trucks pose a serious threat to the safety of our highways and the security of our country. This Administration is hell-bent on opening up our borders but has failed to require that Mexican drivers and trucks meet the same safety and security standards as US drivers and trucks," DeFazio said. "What’s more, the IG report shows that DOT hasn’t even imposed the quality control measures it told Congress it would impose to make sure they are checking every truck every time. If DOT can’t manage that for the 60 trucks currently in the program, how can they handle an open border? The Administration is essentially adopting a faith-based paper system at the expense of American jobs and public safety." Letter below: The Honorable Mary PetersSecretary United States Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue SEWashington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Peters: Today, the Inspector General ("IG") of the Department of Transportation ("DOT") issued his interim report on the cross-border trucking pilot program as required by Section 6901 of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act (P.L. 110-28). This report reveals that DOT has failed to meet an important commitment regarding administration and oversight of this pilot program and magnifies our ongoing safety concerns with DOT’s implementation of the program. We continue to be disappointed that DOT is pushing ahead with this pilot program, against the clear will of Congress as expressed in the FY 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act (P.L. 110-161). The findings released today by the IG confirm that the reality of how the pilot program is being implemented falls short of the assurances from DOT that safety is the top priority. The IG report found that DOT has not implemented critical quality control measures that were intended to ensure that the Department identifies all trucks coming into the United States under the pilot program. As a result, according to the IG, DOT "does not have any assurance that it has checked every Mexican truck and driver that is participating in the project when they cross the border into the United States." By failing to implement quality control measures, DOT has also violated a commitment made to Congress. In response to safety concerns raised by Members on both sides of the aisle and in both the House and Senate, DOT promised to check "every truck, every time" crossing the border under the pilot program and committed to implement a strict quality control plan. In a letter report to Congress, the Department vowed to analyze data on crossings, acquired from Customs and Border Protection ("CBP"), and to provide monthly reports to gauge its performance in meeting this goal. These hollow promises of a quality control plan were delivered to Congress minutes before the first carrier was granted operating authority. In the first six months of the pilot program, DOT has not issued a single report and has not even completed gathering the required data. Further, the IG report raises the important issue of what this pilot program, or demonstration program, will actually demonstrate with respect to the safety and economic impacts of allowing Mexican trucking companies to operate long-haul in the United States. DOT predicted that 100 Mexico-domiciled carriers would comprise the pilot program. Yet six months into the program, only 18 carriers are participating with approximately 70 trucks. Because of this low participation rate, the IG report concluded that "the current number of participants is not adequate to make statistically reliable projections or estimates of some important characteristics, including safety characteristics such as the number of crashes that could be expected from long-haul Mexican carriers." We urge you to consider the impacts on safety if the pilot program does not allow DOT, the IG, or the Independent Review Panel to draw any useful conclusions to inform future policy decisions. We also question whether this small and selective pilot program meets the criteria set forth under Section 6901 of P.L. 110-28. Since DOT began its quest to initiate a cross-border pilot program over a year ago, we have treated this pilot program for what it really is – a slow opening of the border, and a sea change in U.S. surface transportation policy. We will continue to question DOT’s actions because it is our responsibility to ensure that any program that allows trucks from Mexico to enter the United States is conducted with the safety of the American people as the highest priority. _______________________ _______________________James L. Oberstar, M.C. Peter A. DeFazio, M.C. Chairman Chairman Subcommittee on Highways and Transit
03.05.2008	March 4, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) participated in a congressional hearing today to investigate the implications of recent Wall Street interest on the part of hedge funds and private equity firms in the railroad industry. The hearing had particular implications for Oregon where the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) Coos Bay line, which is owned by RailAmerica and parent company Fortress Investment Group, was closed with no warning last September. The Coos Bay line runs between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon. "I have real concerns with the fact that RailAmerica owned this line for 10 years and invested very little in it. The Coos Bay line is a lifeline for south coast industries and its closure is devastating to the entire south coast economy" DeFazio said. A major concern for DeFazio with ownership of rail lines by private equity firms, which usually have no rail experience and little interest in running a railroad, is that the investment necessary to maintain the infrastructure will not be addressed. Instead, private equity firms will sell off lines to make a profit or put a line in deep freeze by closing it, thus limiting the ability of shippers to get their goods to market. This has a negative impact on communities like the Port of Coos Bay and the southern coast of Oregon. Railroads are public assets and should not be auctioned off to the highest bidder. The CORP line is currently owned by RailAmerica, a subsidiary of the private equity firm Fortress, which purchased RailAmerica in February 2007. Last September, the line was closed in an emergency embargo when an inspection of the line found sections of the track and tunnels in a state of gross disrepair. Since the closure of the line, the southern coast economy has suffered and the roadways in the area have been subject to increased congestion. Instead of making the investments to reopen the line, RailAmerica has suggested that the state of Oregon invest the monies to reopen the line and provide operating expenses. "RailAmerica and Fortress are now demanding that the tax payers of Oregon bail out a private railroad and grant a permanent operating subsidy to keep the line open" DeFazio said. "This is ludicrous! RailAmerica has no credibility in the State of Oregon. Instead of selling the line to the Port of Coos Bay, the State or other interested parties, they have chosen instead to sit on the further disintegrating line, benefiting no one. Under intense questioning from DeFazio during the hearing, the CEO of RailAmerica claimed they had another proposal for the line but he had no specifics on the proposal and no timeline as to when it might be disclosed. Congressman DeFazio has been working on the CORP issue since the line was closed last year. Immediately following the embargo, DeFazio requested that the Federal Rail Administration (FRA) investigate the line. The FRA found that the line was in fact in such a state of disrepair that it is was unsafe to operate. Since then, DeFazio has repeatedly urged Fortress to repair and reopen the line. He has also joined with Governor Kulongoski to increase pressure to open the line. "Locally, it is my hope that a solution can be found and that the CORP line will soon be reopened" DeFazio said. "Nationally, I hope that we can regulate the ownership of freight lines by private equity firms so that what we’re going through in Oregon is not repeated in other parts of the country." DeFazio is a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a member of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. See the video here.
02.27.2008	February 27, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today backed landmark legislation that will make significant new investments in renewable energy sources, create hundreds of thousands of new jobs, help end our dependence on foreign oil and slash taxpayer funded subsidies to oil companies. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008 was approved by a vote of 236 to 182. "The Bush Administration has failed the American people with regard to energy policy. As a result, oil companies are making record profits while American consumers are paying $18 billion in unnecessary tax subsidies at the pump" DeFazio said. "In Oregon, consumers are paying, on average 114% more per a gallon of gas than they were when President Bush took office." The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act makes new investments that will help reduce our dependence on foreign oil, increase renewable electricity production, create jobs and protect our environment. The bill extends and expands tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars, and energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. Additionally, the bill includes solar energy tax credits that could reduce carbon dioxide pollution by 240 million tons. The new investments in wind, solar, geothermal and fuel cell technology will also create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and help strengthen the American economy. DeFazio is a long time supporter of progressive energy policy. Most recently, he introduced H.R. 1500, the Gasoline Price Stabilization Act. This measure imposes a windfall profits tax on oil companies that don’t reinvest their profits in expanding refining capacity or in alternative fuels, mandates an increase in fuel efficiency of cars and trucks, requires a trade complaint at the WTO against OPEC for market manipulation and limits oil industry mergers which have reduced competition and raised prices. He also supported H.R. 1252, legislation to outlaw price gouging at both the retail and the wholesale level. Finally, he was a co-sponsor of H.R. 594, the Prevent Unfair Manipulation of Prices Act of 2007, which subjects all oil trading to the same regulation as other commodities, which experts say could reduce prices by as much as 25 percent at the pump. "I was pleased to support the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act today" DeFazio said. "It is a first step towards energy independence which will create jobs, help the environment and the economy, lower the price of gas for consumers, and reduce the American dependence on foreign oil."
02.21.2008	February 20, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Peter DeFazio (OR-4) and Christopher Shays (CT-4) today reiterated their calls for the humane treatment of farm animals in the wake of mistreatment of animals at a slaughterhouse which is the second largest supplier of meat to the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) School Lunch Program. Shays and DeFazio wrote to the USDA today to request they implement safer, more humane handling methods at meat packing facilities through regulation or Executive Order. “This situation is outrageous. American consumers deserve better.” DeFazio said. “Most cases of mad cow disease have come from downed animals,” he continued. “As we state in our letter, USDA must get off the dime and act to protect the general public from potential exposure to horrific diseases. We will continue to push Congress to pass the Farm Animal Stewardship Act to ensure that something like this doesn’t happen again.” “As our letter states, had the Farm Animal Stewardship Act been law, it would not only prevented the inhumane handling of animals, but also would have precluded the health hazard in federal food programs now occurring across the country, including in Bridgeport,” said Shays. “The USDA should implement humane handling methods as soon as possible." In late January, an undercover investigation by The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) revealed widespread mistreatment of "downed" cattle – animals too sick or injured to walk to slaughter – at a Southern California slaughter plant. Under State law and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), these animals must be given veterinary treatment or humanely euthanized. Instead, a video released by the HSUS shows workers at a meat packing plant in California kicking cows, ramming them with the blades of a forklift, jabbing them in the eyes, applying painful electrical shocks and even torturing them with a hose and water in attempts to force sick or injured animals to walk to slaughter. On February 7, DeFazio and Shays wrote to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member Davis requesting a hearing on their bill, H.R. 1726, the Farm Animal Stewardship Purchasing Act. DeFazio and Shays also joined Representatives Gary Ackerman (NY-5) and Steven LaTourette (OH-14) in writing Agriculture Chairman Peterson and Ranking Member Goodlatte to request hearings on H.R. 1726 and H.R. 661, the Downed Animal and Food Safety Protection Act. H.R. 1726 will require more humane treatment for farm animals raised for consumption. The bill will require those supplying farm animal products to the federal government to meet a set of basic humane standards for raising farm animals, including a ban on gestation crates. H.R. 661 will require “downed animals” - those who are too sick or injured to walk - be "humanely euthanized," meaning the animal must be rapidly killed by mechanical, chemical or some other means, This will help end the suffering of injured livestock.
02.13.2008	February 12, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today challenged Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters's infrastructure financing proposal during a hearing before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Secretary Peters contends that our massive infrastructure problems can be simply solved by tolling and privatization of our highway system. This was the second hearing held by the Committee on the report of the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, the bipartisan Commission that was charged with examining the nation’s surface transportation needs and making recommendations for programs and revenue options for the next surface transportation authorization bill. Secretary Peters chaired the Commission, but was one of only three commissioners who voted against the panel’s final report. The Secretary declined to attend the first hearing and instead presented the minority’s views to the full Committee today. "The Commission’s report made it clear that without substantial commitment on the federal level, our transportation infrastructure will continue to deteriorate to third world status" DeFazio said. "Secretary Peters made it equally clear today that she believes these massive problems can be simply solved by rationing and privatization of our highway system. This view is a total denial of reality which has been the hallmark of the Bush Administration." Last month the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure heard from the majority of the Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission. The final report detailed the significant surface transportation investment gap the nation is facing. The Commission estimates the federal government should be investing between $225 billion and $340 billion annually in all modes of transportation. The federal government is currently investing only $85 billion annually, less than 40 percent of the needed amount. "The view presented by Secretary Peters today was at complete odds with the findings of the Commission and her proposal for solving the nation's transportation funding pitfalls will only serve to compound the crisis the United States is facing" DeFazio said. "What's more, at a time when America is facing a serious recession, investment in infrastructure creates American jobs and helps to jump start the nation's economy. For every $1 billion the federal government invests in transportation, 47,500 jobs are created that cannot be exported. The type of federal investment in infrastructure Secretary Peters is opposed to is good for American workers, economy, productivity and trade."
02.07.2008	February 6, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today joined with eleven colleagues in introducing the Renewable Biomass Facilitation Act, legislation that would promote the development and use of biofuel derived from woody biomass on federal lands. The bill would significantly broaden the definition of "biomass" within the Energy Bill recently passed by Congress to include biomass gathered from federal lands. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today joined with eleven colleagues in introducing the Renewable Biomass Facilitation Act, legislation that would promote the development and use of biofuel derived from woody biomass on federal lands. The bill would significantly broaden the definition of "biomass" within the Energy Bill recently passed by Congress to include biomass gathered from federal lands. "Biomass utilization is an important component of our energy independence," DeFazio said. "This legislation will help many innovative companies both inside and outside my district that are actively developing new biomass technology. I am pleased to co-sponsor this legislation which will ensure that we take an environmentally sensitive and yet active approach towards stewardship of our federal forest lands and biomass development." The Renewable Biomass Facilitation Act addresses a flaw in the recently passed Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, H.R. 6. The current definition of renewable biomass included in H.R. 6 prevents almost all federal land biomass, such as trees, wood, brush, thinnings, chips, and slash, from counting toward the renewable fuels mandate if it is used to manufacture biofuels. This provision not only discourages the use of such biomass, but in doing so could result in a decrease in responsible forest management by denying land managers an important outlet for the excessive biomass loads that often accumulate on public lands. This measure would promote the use of energy from waste products gathered on federal lands, including those that are byproducts of preventive treatments and are removed to reduce hazardous fuels, to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or to restore ecosystem health. This legislation is particularly relevant to Oregon where there are many areas of old growth forest where small trees have grown up into the old growth canopy as a result of fire suppression and previous management. This legislation will contribute to American efforts to develop and promote renewable energy solutions. Investments in renewable energy sources of this kind are necessary to increase American energy independence, strengthen national security, lower energy costs, contribute to the growth of the economy, and reduce global warming. "I am pleased to be a part of the effort to change the definition of biomass, so that we can promote its use," DeFazio said. "This will result in healthier forests, an investment by companies in new kinds of renewable fuels, and a boost to environmental efforts both in Oregon and around the nation. We can't import, dig, drill and burn our way to long term energy security and efforts, such as this one surrounding biomass, are invaluable in our long term search for energy independence. "
02.04.2008	February 3, 2008 WASHINGTON—The Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit says the budget proposal put forward by the Bush administration today presents little that is new, and much that is disappointing. Rep. Peter Defazio (D-OR) says the Bush budget plan for Fiscal Year 2009 shortchanges highways, transit, rail, and air transportation programs, as well as emergency preparedness, inland water transportation, and environmental infrastructure development. Just like the FY 2008 proposal, the new budget plan reiterates the ideological proposals to cut Federal infrastructure investment, proposals that have been rejected time and again. "At a time when the American economy could use a shot in the arm and there are roughly 3,000 highway and transit projects ready-to-go if funded, the President proposes to cut surface transportation funding by $2 billion," DeFazio said. "That could cost 100,000 American construction jobs in the next year. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, every billion we invest in infrastructure creates 47,500 jobs. This Administration has once again proved that it is not serious about combating congestion, making critical improvements to our nation’s infrastructure, or stimulating the economy through job creation." Perhaps the most egregious cut in the Transportation title of the budget is the Administration’s plan to violate the highway and transit funding guarantees in the current surface transportation authorization act, SAFETEA-LU. The proposal effectively cuts highway and transit grants to the states by $1 billion below the SAFETEA-LU guarantees. These cuts are in addition to the Administration’s proposed Revenue Aligned Budget Authority reduction of $1 billion. The Administration refuses to accept defeat on the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. WRDA, the first water projects authorization bill enacted since 2000, was the first to be enacted over a Presidential veto in the current administration. WRDA authorizes $23 million for some 900 projects around the country, but the Administration’s budget provides no funding for them. Once again, the Bush Administration targets Amtrak for elimination. The FY 2009 budget request proposes to zero-out operating funds for Amtrak, in effect shutting down the national passenger railroad system. The budget request provides $525 million for Amtrak capital grants and $375 million for "Efficiency Incentive Grants" and "Intercity Passenger Rail Grants". In aviation, the FY 2009 budget request proposes $2.75 billion for Airport Improvement Program grants, $1.15 billion less than the level authorized by H.R. 2881, the "FAA Reauthorization Act of 2007", as passed by the House, and $765 million less than the FY 2008 funding level. Under the airport grant formula, virtually every airport’s entitlement funding will be cut and small airports will be particularly hard hit by the Bush administration’s proposed cut. For FY 2009, the Administration has slightly increased its aviation facilities and equipment program request to $2.72 billion, up from $2.46 billion in the FY 2008 request. While this is a step in the right direction, it is not enough to meet the FAA’s goal of technologically transforming the air traffic control system. The Administration’s own preliminary cost estimate for the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen) is $3.246 billion, the funding level authorized by H.R. 2881. In brief, the budget Proposes $39.4 billion for the Federal-aid highways program, $800 million below the $40.2 billion funding level that is guaranteed by SAFETEA-LU. SAFETEA-LU originally guaranteed $41.2 billion in highway investments for FY09. The Administration proposes a $1 billion reduction due to Revenue Aligned Budget Authority (RABA) in addition to the $800 million cut to the highway program. Proposes $10.136 billion for transit, $202 million below the $10.338 billion guaranteed by SAFETEA-LU. Provides $2.75 billion for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) - $1.15 billion less than the level authorized by H.R. 2881, The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2007 for FY09 and $765 million less than the FY08 enacted level of $3.515 billion. Cuts funding for the Essential Air Service (EAS) program to $50 million, a cut of $77 million from the level authorized by Congress. Approximately one-half of the 141 communities that receive EAS funding would have to be dropped from the program. Provides no funding for projects authorized in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. Terminates $133 million in Targeted Water Infrastructure projects. Zeroes-out Targeted Watershed Grants. Cuts in half funding for the US-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Assistance program. Reduces the Nonpoint Source Grants program by $16 million, even though nonpoint source water pollution is acknowledged by the EPA to be a major source of water pollution. Cuts the Chesapeake Bay Program by $1.5 million, Long Island Sound Program by $4.5 million, Gulf of Mexico Program by $1 million, the San Francisco Bay Program by $4.9 million (zeroed out), and the Puget Sound Program by $18.7 million, compared with FY08 enacted amounts. Significantly reduces the overall budget for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ investigation and construction accounts by 46 percent and 27 percent, respectively. Proposes the eighth straight year of cuts to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund – the primary federal program responsible for funding wastewater infrastructure projects throughout the nation. The President’s budget request of $555 million for FY09 is down 20 percent from last year’s appropriation of $689 million, and nearly 60 percent below the long-term average appropriation of $1.35 billion. Zeroes-out operating funds for Amtrak, and instead proposes $275 million for "Efficiency Incentive Grants," which may or may not be made available to Amtrak for operating assistance. In addition, Amtrak capital funds would be reduced from $850 million in FY08 to $525 million in FY09, a cut of 38 percent. Cuts public transportation and rail security funding by more than one-half. The administration’s request of $175 million is a fraction of the $1.2 billion authorized for these programs under the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007. Cuts Emergency Management Performance Grants (EMPG) by one-third, from $300 million to $200 million. The EMPG program is the Federal Government’s principal grant program to assist State and local emergency managers prepare for disasters. Further, the administration proposes to target the reduced funding to urban areas, leaving many small communities with no EMPG funding. Cuts Economic Development Administration (EDA) funding by 60 percent, cutting these grants for economically distressed communities from $249 million to $100 million.
02.04.2008	February 3, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement on President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget, which was released this morning. —U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement on President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget, which was released this morning. "With this budget, President Bush has once again demonstrated that he is out of touch with the reality of the American people. This request offers the same failed fiscal policies which have been the hallmark of this Administration and sends the nation even further into debt. America has experienced the five largest annual deficits under President Bush and this year is no exception with a projected $407 billion deficit. Meanwhile, President Bush, in order to maintain his tax cuts to the millionaires and billionaires of this nation has proposed drastic reductions in veteran's benefits, healthcare and transportation. "Under President Bush's budget, Medicare would experience a $554 billion reduction over the next ten years. This would freeze provider reimbursements and slash payments to hospitals serving large numbers of the uninsured, making it even more difficult for seniors who already have trouble accessing their doctors. Essentially, this would effectively save the nation money because seniors would not be able to access medical care, meaning they would get sick or die. "The budget also failed to account for the on going war in Iraq and the needed long term fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). President Bush requests just $70 billion, or less than six months worth of funding for the war in Iraq and only one year of funding for relief of the AMT. The omitted cost of the AMT totals $408 billion over five years, and, according to the Congressional Budget Office, war costs over the next five years could be as much as $489 billion more than the Administration included in today’s budget. President Bush still pretends that he cannot predict the monthly cost of the war and refuses to acknowledge the long-term costs of AMT fix, apparently preferring to instead borrow money and drive the nation further into debt. This leaves our children to bear an unacceptable level of debt and is just one more reason to end American involvement in Iraq. "In regard to transportation, at a time when the American economy could use a shot in the arm and there are roughly 3,000 highway and transit projects ready-to-go if funded, the President proposes to cut surface transportation funding by $2 billion. That could cost 100,000 American construction jobs in the next year. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, every billion we invest in infrastructure creates 47,500 jobs. This Administration has once again proved that it is not serious about combating congestion, making critical improvements to our nation’s infrastructure, or stimulating the economy through job creation. "While I appreciate that the President has finally recognized the need to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools Act, legislation that provides millions of dollars to rural communities across the country, the numbers in this budget fall far short of what is required. The White House has proposed to fund Secure Rural Schools for another three years, but only a quarter of the actual cost of the program. Furthermore, it neglects to site where the budget off-sets would come from to pay for this program. This is completely unacceptable, and I will continue to work for a fully funded multi year renewal. "President Bush's budget will place a $5.2 billion burden on veterans in fees over the next ten years. This includes increased co-payments, charging fees for non-disabled higher-income veterans and an increase in pharmacy costs. How we treat those who have served and are serving will directly impact our ability to find volunteers to protect our country in the future. America's veteran's, who have selflessly served our nation, deserve affordable healthcare, a point President Bush clearly disagrees with judging by this budget proposal.
01.30.2008	January 30, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today reacted with anger to an undercover investigation by the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) that exposed deplorable treatment of cows at a Southern California slaughterhouse. "I have been concerned about animal welfare since first coming to Congress, and I’ve heard some pretty gruesome tales," DeFazio said. "The video of how these animals were treated was abhorrent and shocking and I am ashamed that this could happen here in the United States." The investigation into operations at the Hallmark Meat Packing Company in Chino, California, revealed mistreatment of "downed" cattle, animals too sick or injured to walk to slaughter. Almost all cases of reported mad cow disease have been found in downed cattle. Under California State law, these animals must be given veterinary treatment or humanely euthanized. Instead, they were shocked with cattle prods, dragged with chains, lifted with forklifts, sprayed with high pressure hoses, or pushed with tractors into a standing position where they were forced into the "kill box" for slaughter. Additionally alarming is that the slaughterhouse supplies beef to the Westland Meat Company, which is the second largest supplier of meat to the United States Department of Agriculture’s School Lunch Program. Westland was the 2004-2005 "Supplier of the Year," and delivered beef to school children in more than 36 states, including Oregon. "Frankly, I am stunned that beef from downed animals may have been fed to Oregon school children," DeFazio said. "Most of the cases of mad cow disease have come from downed animals and now we’re feeding this stuff to kids? It is past time that Congress act to protect school children from potential exposure to this horrific disease." Congressman DeFazio has a long standing record of involvement in animal welfare issues. In March 2007, DeFazio introduced the Farm Animal Stewardship Act, which would require producers who supply meat, dairy, and egg products to the federal government to meet a set of basic humane standards for raising farm animals. The legislation would also require the government to provide adequate veterinary care, including prompt treatment of injuries or euthanasia for a sick or injured animal. "The USDA must act immediately and I have joined with my colleagues in urging them to address what is going on at the Hallmark facility. Furthermore, it is time for Congress to lead by example and pass my bill so that inhumane treatment of animals is no longer tolerated, and tainted meat isn’t served in lunchrooms across the country."
01.22.2008	January 22, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C.- As a result of efforts by Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) the Environmental Protection Agency has agreed to investigate the 2003 poisoning of Mr. Dennis Slaugh of Vernal, Utah. Mr. Slaugh was poisoned by an M-44 sodium cyanide capsule device that was placed on federal public lands. The accident occurred when Mr. Slaugh pulled on what he mistook for a survey maker and turned out to be an M-44. The device shot sodium cyanide powder on his face and chest causing him to become violently ill and to this day he suffers from the effects of the poison. It is even likely that his life will be shortened as a result of the incident. In November of this past year, DeFazio sent a letter to the EPA requesting an investigation into Mr. Slaugh's case as well as the use of the poison Compound 1080 and the M-44 device. This letter was written in conjunction with efforts by Predator Defense, a national wildlife advocacy group based in Eugene, OR. "Compound 1080 and M-44 sodium cyanide capsules are lethal, dangerous, and unnecessary poisons. They pose a very serious threat to our nation's citizens, wildlife, and domesticated animals. I am pleased that the EPA finally is taking a step in the right direction through formally investigating Mr. Slaugh's case," DeFazio said. Congressman DeFazio has been fighting to ban the use of Compound 1080 and the M-44 device for several years. In 2004, Rep. DeFazio wrote then-Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge and asked him to ban Compound 1080. The Bush Administration failed to act on this request, and in 2005, DeFazio introduced legislation in the United States House of Representatives that would ban this lethal poison. Unfortunately, the Republican Congress failed to act on the legislation before the completion of the 109th Congress. Since then, DeFazio has written numerous letters to the EPA and other federal agencies urging them to utilize their authority to ban Compound 1080 because of its deadly nature. DeFazio’s most recent action, the introduction of HR 4775, the Compound 1080 and M-44 Elimination Act, would halt the legal use of the lethal poisons once and for all. "Both of these poisons have been called "super poisons" by the FBI, and have been cited as lethal toxins likely to be used by terrorists to harm Americans" DeFazio said. "These poisons have sickened dozens of humans, and have killed many more pets and wildlife over the years. It is long passed time that we halt their use permanently."
01.22.2008	January 22, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) lauded the President’s release today of $3.7 billion in additional veterans funding provided by Congress – to provide the largest single funding increase in the 77-year history of the Department of Veterans Affairs. "With this money, the Democratic-led Congress is making an unprecedented commitment to those who have served our country in the military," said DeFazio. "The federal government must do more than provide rhetorical support for our troops. After years of neglect in Washington, this release of actual dollars is a positive step to improve the delivery of health care services, meet the increasingly complex health care needs of veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and reduce the disgracefully massive backlog of disability claims." Congressman DeFazio has been active in encouraging the release of these funds by President Bush. In December, he joined with more than 40 of his colleagues in writing to President Bush to urge his consideration of this issue. "At a time when millions of Americans are rotating in and out of combat zones –often multiple times– it is even more important that Congress fulfill the government's promises to veterans. After all, how we treat our veterans today will play a large role in whether enough Americans will volunteer to protect and defend our country in the future. I am proud of the service of our men and women in the military, and I am pleased that the President is finally releasing the funds necessary to fully honor that commitment," continuedDeFazio.
01.22.2008	Sen. Smith & Rep. DeFazio Announce the Port will Receive a $119,000 EDA Award Washington, D.C. – Today, Oregon Senator Gordon Smith and Representative Peter DeFazio announced the Port of Coos Bay is set to receive an $119,000 Economic Development Administration (EDA) performance award. The award was given to the Port of Coos Bay for generating private investment, innovation and economic strategy. "The Port of Coos Bay is a crucial gateway for economic opportunity in the South Coast," said Smith. "This award is a testament to the port for all of their good work. The award money will enable the port to continue to support growth and development and bring jobs and prosperity to the South Coast." "I commend the Port of Coos Bay for its hard work to garner private investment and ongoing collaboration with regional partners to revitalize this port which is critical to the economy of the Southern Coast," said DeFazio. "It is because this work and its leadership that the Port has earned an EDA Performance Award for the coming year." The Port of Coos Bay was recognized for their leadership in managing a 2005 EDA investment that constructed a small railroad line that connected the new industrial-zoned acreage to the Union Pacific rail line. The new rail line will now provide the industrial zone with the benefits of rail line transportation and commerce. The investment was projected to draw $15 million in private investment within a nine-year period. Within just five months of project completion, the new railroad line generated an impressive $16.5 million in private investment, crushing the original estimate. The EDA award can be used to fund a wide range of EDA-approved economic development activities. Although plans have not been finalized, the Port of Coos Bay hopes to bring more business opportunities to the Southern Coast by constructing a container terminal that will have direct access to the new rail line.
12.19.2007	December 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted for fiscal responsibility today by voting against the Senate amendment to H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007. This legislation was designed to temporarily fix the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) but the Senate amendment was fiscally irresponsible. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted for fiscal responsibility today by voting against the Senate amendment to H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007. This legislation was designed to temporarily fix the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) but the Senate amendment was fiscally irresponsible. Congressman DeFazio supports fixing the AMT. This tax, put into place to ensure that the wealthiest families did not escape paying taxes altogether, would have effected 23 million middle and upper income American families had the one year patch not been passed. However, legislation that does not adhere to the PAYGO rules drives the nation further into debt. PAYGO requires that all new spending and tax cuts be offset to prevent increasing the federal deficit. Unfortunately, President Bush and Senate Republicans insisted that we borrow the money for this single year of tax relief. "Granting this tax cut and borrowing the money to pay for it means the United States will be $52 billion more in debt, a mortgage of $270 million a month for the next 30 years," DeFazio said. "That's what we're going to pass on to the next generation. That money could instead fund half the annual cost of Head Start or the full annual costs for veteran's mental health and substance abuse programs." Congressman DeFazio has been a long time supporter of PAYGO rules. Without it, the Republican Congress ran up a record deficit of $2.4 trillion in under seven years. Earlier in the month, DeFazio led several members of the Progressive Caucus on a letter to Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer urging the House of Representatives to abide by the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules when patching the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). DeFazio was opposed to borrowing the money and instead wanted to pay for the AMT fix by eliminating tax loops holes exploited by large corporations and multi millionaire hedge funds managers. "Why should someone who earns hundreds of millions of dollars a year pay an effective tax rate that is half of that of an Army Captain in Iraq?" DeFazio said. "Large corporations and multi millionaire hedge fund managers should have to pay their fair share." Unfortunately, the House passed H.R. 3996 this afternoon without the tax offsets by a vote of 356 to 64. DeFazio was one of the 64 Democrats to stand up for fiscal responsibility.
12.18.2007	December 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House approved funding for Linn-Benton Community College and Oregon State University. The funding was contained in H.R. 2764, the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. H.R. 2764, which passed the House last night, completes the appropriations process for this session of Congress. The Senate is expected to take action on the bill later this week. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House approved funding for Linn-Benton Community College and Oregon State University. The funding was contained in H.R. 2764, the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. H.R. 2764, which passed the House last night, completes the appropriations process for this session of Congress. The Senate is expected to take action on the bill later this week. In addition the bill includes historic funding for higher education, veterans health care and the continued efforts in Afghanistan. The legislation however, does not include funding for the on going war in Iraq. DeFazio had requested funding for the following programs in Linn and Benton Counties that received financial support within the Omnibus legislation: Linn Benton Community College received $526,000 to purchase equipment for its new science lab The Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute received the following funding: $2,500,000 to research miniature tactical energy systems $3,200,000 to research safer nano-material and nano-manufacturing for the Air force $2,000,000 to research safer nano-material and nano-manufacturing for the Navy
12.18.2007	december 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House approved funding for dredging, wave energy and a meth abatement program on the Southern Coast. The funding was contained in H.R. 2764, the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. H.R. 2764, which passed the House last night, completes the appropriations process for this session of Congress. The Senate is expected to take action on the bill later this week. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House approved funding for dredging, wave energy and a meth abatement program on the Southern Coast. The funding was contained in H.R. 2764, the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. H.R. 2764, which passed the House last night, completes the appropriations process for this session of Congress. The Senate is expected to take action on the bill later this week. In addition, the bill includes historic funding for higher education, veterans health care and the continued efforts in Afghanistan. The legislation however, does not include funding for the on going war in Iraq. DeFazio requested funding for the following programs on the southern coast that received financial support within the Omnibus legislation: South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team received $164,500 to combat the meth problem on the Southern Coast Port of Coos Bay received $5,609,000 for dredging Port of Gold Beach received $427,000 for dredging and $441,000 for high dock repairs Port of Port Orford received $308,000 for dredging Port of Suislaw received $691,000 for dredging Port of Umpqua received $1,370,000 for dredging Ocean Power received $2,000,000 for a ocean wave renewable energy demonstration project
12.18.2007	December 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House approved funding for the Lane Transit District, Coberg sewage system, a meth abatement program, Mobility International, Springfield Public Schools and the University of Oregon. The funding was contained in H.R. 2764, the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. H.R. 2764, which passed the House last night, completes the appropriations process for this session of Congress. The Senate is expected to take action on the bill later this week. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House approved funding for the Lane Transit District, Coberg sewage system, a meth abatement program, Mobility International, Springfield Public Schools and the University of Oregon. The funding was contained in H.R. 2764, the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. H.R. 2764, which passed the House last night, completes the appropriations process for this session of Congress. The Senate is expected to take action on the bill later this week. In addition, the bill includes historic funding for higher education, veterans health care and the continued efforts in Afghanistan. The legislation however, does not include funding for the on going war in Iraq. DeFazio requested funding for the following programs in Lane County that received financial support within the Omnibus legislation: Lane Transit District received $14,504,000 for design, engineering and construction of the Pioneer Parkway and $245,000 for an alternatives analysis for the third EmX Corridor City of Coburg received $500,000 for sewage management The Lane County Meth Abatement Program received $399,500 Mobility International received $500,000 for the National Clearinghouse on Disability and Exchange Springfield Public Schools received $178,600 for school security and equipment technology and $97,000 for the Academy of the Arts The University of Oregon received $2,000,000 for brain, biology and machine applied research The Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute received the following funding: $2,500,000 to research miniature tactical energy systems $3,200,000 to research safer nano-material and nano-manufacturing for the Air force $2,000,000 to research safer nano-material and nano-manufacturing for the Navy
12.18.2007	December 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) introduced legislation today, H.R. 4775, to prohibit the use of two deadly poisons. H.R. 4775 is the latest move by the Congressman in his long standing efforts to ban the use of Compound 10-80 and sodium cyanide. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) introduced legislation today, H.R. 4775, to prohibit the use of two deadly poisons. H.R. 4775 is the latest move by the Congressman in his long standing efforts to ban the use of Compound 10-80 and sodium cyanide. "Both of these poisons have been called "super poisons" by the FBI, and have been cited as lethal toxins likely to be used by terrorists to harm Americans" DeFazio said. "These poisons have sickened dozens of humans, and have killed many more pets and wildlife over the years." Compound 1080 is a tasteless, odorless, and colorless poison, and has no antidote: one teaspoon can kill up to 100 human adults. After widespread misuse and abuse of Compound 1080 in the 1950s and 1960s, and the death of 13 people who ingested the poison, the EPA banned Compound 1080 in 1972. Unfortunately, after intense lobbying from the livestock industry, Compound 1080 was re-approved for use in the "Livestock Protection Collar" (collars containing the poison that are placed around the necks of sheep and burst when punctured by a predator, barbed wire, or other sharp object) in 1985. Each of these collars contains enough poison to kill 6 adult humans. M-44 devices are spring-activated sodium cyanide ejectors that deliver a deadly dose of this poison when an animal pulls up on it. A small pipe is driven into the ground and then loaded with the ejector and a sodium cyanide capsule. The top of the ejector is wrapped with an absorbent material that has been coated with a substance that attracts canines. When an animal pulls on this material, a spring ejects the sodium cyanide into the animal’s mouth and face. The force of the ejector can spray the cyanide granules up to five feet. The animal can die within minutes or linger over a long period of time. M-44s kill thousands of animals each year, including endangered species and pets. In addition, human injuries from the poison do occur, and children are especially at risk. In 2004, Rep. DeFazio wrote then-Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge and asked him to again ban Compound 1080. The Bush Administration failed to act on this request, and in 2005, DeFazio introduced legislation in the United States House of Representatives that would ban this lethal poison. Unfortunately, the Republican Congress failed to act on the legislation before the completion of the 109th Congress. Since then, DeFazio has written numerous letters to the EPA and other federal agencies urging them to utilize their authority to ban Compound 1080 because of its deadly nature. DeFazio’s most recent action, the introduction of this legislation, would halt the legal use of the lethal poisons once and for all. "Compound 1080 and M-44 sodium cyanide capsules are lethal, dangerous, and unnecessary poisons. They pose a very serious threat to our nation's citizens, wildlife, and domesticated animals. I am pleased to introduce this legislation which would halt the use of these needlessly dangerous poisons permanently," DeFazio pledged.
12.13.2007	December 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) scored a victory for American's with disabilities today. Legislation DeFazio authored, H.R. 3985, the Over-the-Road Bus Transportation Accessibility Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of unanimous consent. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) scored a victory for American's with disabilities today. Legislation DeFazio authored, H.R. 3985, the Over-the-Road Bus Transportation Accessibility Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of unanimous consent. The measure directs the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) to actively enforce regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by ensuring equal access to all commercial bus service for all individuals with disabilities. DeFazio introduced H.R. 3985 response to and article in the Washington Post which reported that eleven of the "curbside" bus operators along the Northeast corridor were not meeting ADA standards. Curbside buses do not use terminals but instead operate fixed-route, intercity bus service, picking up and dropping off passengers on the street. These curbside routes are often not accessible to the disabled. For example, an individual who is blind was denied access for his seeing-eye dog. The FMCSA argues that only the Department of Justice (DOJ) can enforce ADA requirements. This bill counters that argument by placing ADA requirements under the jurisdiction of the FMCSA for curb side bus operators. "Because FMSCA has chosen not to act, Congress must legislate. H.R. 3985 is a common sense bill that ensures those with disabilities have full access to over the road bus service" DeFazio said. "It's been 17 years since the ADA was signed into law and it is high-time that the Department of Transportation enforces its regulations." H.R. 3985 will now move to the Senate for consideration. DeFazio is the chairman of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit which has jurisdiction over bus and motor carrier issues.
12.13.2007	December 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) stood up for fiscal responsibility this week. DeFazio, along with several members of the Progressive Caucus, sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer urging the House of Representatives to abide by the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules when patching the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) stood up for fiscal responsibility this week. DeFazio, along with several members of the Progressive Caucus, sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer urging the House of Representatives to abide by the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules when patching the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). "I authored this letter to send a message of Democratic unity on PAYGO. I believe that when Members of the Progressive Caucus and the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Caucus agree, the House Democrats must stand firm. Congress needs to put away the credit card and stop passing debt on to future generations by abiding with PAYGO rules." Congressman DeFazio has been a long time supporter of PAYGO rules. These rules require that all new spending and tax cuts be offset to prevent increasing the federal deficit. Without the PAYGO rules, the Republican Congress ran up a record deficit of $2.4 trillion in under seven years. "Granting this tax cut without offsets means the federal government will borrow $52 billion, obligating the government to repay $3 billion a year for 30 years. That money could instead fund half the annual cost of Head Start or the full annual costs for veteran's mental health and substance abuse programs." Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed a one year solution to the AMT-that abided by the PAYGO rules-with a bipartisan vote of 226 to 193. The House paid for the AMT fix by closing tax loops holes exploited by large corporations and hedge funds. The Senate is currently considering its version of the legislation which does not abide by PAYGO. DeFazio and his colleagues in the Progressive Caucus sent the Speaker and Majority Leader the following letter urging them to remain strong on the principles of PAYGO when the two bills are reconciled. December 12, 2007 Speaker of the House The Honorable Nancy Pelosi H 232 Capitol Washington DC 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi: As progressive members of the Democratic Caucus, we wish to make clear our concern with any AMT patch that does not adhere to the House PAYGO rules. We believe House Democrats must remain united on this principle. One of the first acts of the new Congress under your leadership was to reinstate PAYGO rules, a key step to restoring fiscal responsibility. The new Congress is taking away the government credit card to balance the budget and protect Social Security, Medicare, veteran's benefits, and other federal programs critical to our future. Since 2001, we have had the worst fiscal reversal in our nation’s history. In 2000, the projected surplus was $5.6 trillion (over 10 years). The Republicans flipped that surplus into a $2.4 trillion deficit, an $8 trillion change for the worse, and they did it in less than seven years. As progressives who see the necessity for increased spending on health, housing, education and other social needs, the PAYGO rules have required us to seek offsets for this new spending. To ensure the deficit does not increase, the same must remain true for any tax cuts. We all voted for the H.R. 3996 that would pay for AMT relief for almost 23 million Americans. To comply with the PAYGO rules this bill also required a miniscule group of wealthy investment managers to pay the same tax rates as average working families. Under current law, executives at hedge funds make millions, but pay taxes at about the half the rate of an Army captain or an experienced teacher. This must change. The bill also makes it harder for multinational corporations to shift their U.S. profits offshore to avoid taxes. These offsets ensured H.R. 3996 makes the tax code more progressive and adheres to the PAYGO rules. Citizens for Tax Justice argues that not offsetting AMT relief effectively shifts tax burden from the wealthy to the middle class. "AMT relief, by itself, would not be particularly progressive ... Most of the benefits would go to the richest fifth of taxpayers, and if it’s deficit financed, the cost could be borne in the future by middle-income Americans in the form of cuts in public services or higher taxes. But AMT relief can be progressive if the costs are offset with revenue-raising provisions that target the very wealthiest Americans, those who have benefited the most from the Bush tax cuts. Almost all of the benefits of AMT relief (91 percent) will go to taxpayers in the top fifth of the income scale, excluding those in the top one percent. Specifically, that means those making $84,000 to $455,000 a year. The cost of paying for AMT relief will be borne almost entirely by a small subset of the best-off one percent of taxpayers — those making more than $455,000 a year." We remain open to other offsets, so long as they don't fall on the backs of the middle class and those with even less. Working families are struggling to pay for food, gas, utilities, school, and other basics with stagnant or declining take-home pay. Meanwhile, the wealthy continue to prosper. The average working family making $40,000 a year struggling to make ends meet and working paycheck to paycheck gets an average tax cut of about $500 from the President’s past tax cuts, while millionaires get tax breaks in the hundreds of thousands. Unlike President Bush’s tax cuts for the super wealthy, future tax cuts must be progressive and cannot be financed with borrowed money. We urge you to stand up for the principles of PAYGO and stand up to the Senate. We support a patch to the AMT, but the House proposed offsets or other progressive offsets must be included. Sincerely,
12.06.2007	New Intelligence Report Also Supports Increased Diplomacy December 6, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio today renewed his calls for the Bush Administration to increase diplomatic relations with Iran to help avoid another unnecessary war. DeFazio's comments came in response to the release of the new National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) for Iran which states that Iran halted its nuclear weapons program in 2003 and had "not restarted its program" as of mid-2007. The NIE is the result of a consensus judgment by the U.S. intelligence community. Today's intelligence report reverses the prior assertion that Iran's nuclear program is a weapons development program.The Administration has long claimed that they cannot negotiate with Iran because it's been actively pursuing a nuclear weapons program. Instead, President Bush has successfully pushed sanctions and hinted at military action against Iran. However, in light of this most recent report, Congressman DeFazio is again urging President Bush to seek diplomatic solutions in Iran. "This report shows that the Bush Administration has not been straight with Congress and the American public but rather has grossly over stated the threat posed by Iran," DeFazio said. "The encouraging information disclosed in this report is yet another reason to step up diplomatic efforts." DeFazio has been actively encouraging the Administration to consider diplomatic attempts since 2001, and has proposed a detailed diplomatic strategy. DeFazio has also been working to prevent the President from taking military action against Iran without congressional approval. Last April, DeFazio wrote a letter, cosigned by 62 members of Congress, to President Bush reminding him of his constitutional obligation to seek congressional approval before making any pre-emptive military strikes in Iran. DeFazio also introduced, H.Con.Res. 33, a resolution that serves the same purpose. In September 2006, he sent a letter to Secretary Rice regarding the negotiations between Iran, the E.U. and the U.S. In May 2007, DeFazio offered an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense Authorization Act to prohibit the president from taking military action against Iran. And, most recently, he requested a series of congressional hearings on the administration's plans for Iran in order to get answers to serious questions about those plans. "Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution requires that the president get authorization from Congress before taking military action," said DeFazio. "The people elect their Members of Congress expecting them to participate in major decisions like initiating military action against other countries. It is an injustice to the American people to deny them that prerogative. Our founders crafted the Constitution so that only Congress could declare war for a reason: they did not want the president to have the power of a king. Any claim President Bush makes to the contrary is simply untrue."
12.06.2007	Bill Includes Funding for County Payments December 6, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) said today, "The house made progress toward America's energy independence with the passage of H.R. 6, also known as the Energy Bill." This historic legislation will increase American energy independence, strengthen national security, lower energy costs, contribute to the growth of the economy, and reduce global warming. Perhaps even more significant for Southwest Oregon, the legislation also includes important funding for the county payments program. "We can't import, dig, drill and burn our way to long term energy security," DeFazio said. "This legislation puts America on a new path to energy independence and sustainability with less reliance on foreign oil. The bill will be great for American consumers by saving them billions at the pump. The clean energy technologies in the legislation will create jobs, benefit the economy and combat global warming," DeFazio continued. "President Bush and the Republicans dropped the ball on sustainable energy policy but the Democratic Congress is passing common sense energy solutions today." The legislation sets new efficiency standards for a wide range of products and requires that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources by 2010. The bill increases vehicle fuel efficiency standards for the first time in 32 years. The bill also includes important tax incentives for renewable energy, conservation and efficiency measures. Finally, these investments will be fully paid for by repealing tax breaks for profit-rich oil companies. But perhaps more important to the people of Southwest Oregon, the energy bill includes a plan to continue funding for the critical county payments program for the next four years. This funding was made possible when DeFaziosucceeded in getting a provision included in the House Energy bill earlier this summer. Since the Senate Energy bill did not contain any reference to the county payments program, DeFazio's provision opened the door for conferees to include a multi-year reauthorization in the final energy legislation when conferees reconciled the differences between the two bills. The bill will ramp-down the program over the next four years. "The county payments program provides funding for vital services like law enforcement, county road departments, and rural schools," DeFazio said. "Rural counties have been struggling to stay afloat since Republicans allowed the program to expire last fall. This is not the bill I had hoped for, but a ramp down in payments is certainly better than the prospect of zero funding the next year. This reauthorization will provide counties with predictable, if inadequate, funding, and I'll continue to work on my thinning legislation and other policies to help restore critical funding to our rural counties." Unfortunately, the potential for passage of the bill is less certain in the Senate where Republicans are threatening to filibuster the bill. Additionally, President Bush has threatened to veto the legislation. "No matter the ultimate fate of the Energy bill, I will fight for continued funding of the county payments program," DeFazio said.
11.15.2007	November 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today released the findings of an inspection performed by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) of the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon. CORP cited safety concerns when they closed the line in October without advance notice. The FRA conducted the investigation at DeFazio's request. While there were known problems with the line, CORP never communicated with its customers or the Oregon Department of Transportation that the line had deteriorated so badly that an emergency closure might be necessary. The precipitous closure left shippers without a viable way to get their goods to market. Georgia-Pacific subsequently announced it is stopping operations at its Coos Bay sawmill and laid off 120 workers indefinetly saying the stoppage is related to CORP's embargo of this line. The inspection confirms that the line has been allowed to deteriorate to such a degree that repairs are before safe operations of the line can continue. The report is available on DeFazio's congressional website at https://www.defazio.house.gov/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=344. CORP's parent company, RailAmerica, was purchased by Fortress Investment earlier this year. DeFazio has said it appears that Fortress Investment is not interested in providing rail service in southwest Oregon or the responsibility that comes with ownership of such an essential public service. He has urged Governor Kulongoski to use the full resources of the state to support the Port of Coos Bay in taking over the CORP Coos Bay line and in its lawsuit.
11.15.2007	November 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that yesterday the House approved $14,800,000 for Lane Transit District (LTD) Pioneer Parkway EmX Corridor and $250,000 for LTD's alternatives analysis for a third EmX Corridor. DeFazio requested funding for both projects. The funding was included in the final conference agreement on H.R. 3074, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for fiscal year. The bill passed by a vote of 270-147. $14,800,000 for Lane Transit District, Pioneer Parkway EmX Corridor EmX is the name given to LTD's bus rapid transit system. It is a rubber-tired system that uses exclusive transit lanes, signal priority, off-board fare collection, special vehicles, and other transit priority techniques to emulate light rail. The Pioneer Parkway EmX service will connect downtown Springfield with the rapidly developing Gateway/RiverBend area to the north. Pioneer Parkway will be the second EmX corridor in LTD's system. Planning for the corridor has proceeded through initial conceptual design development, and preliminary environmental screening and alternatives analysis. $250,000 for LTD's alternatives analysis for the Third EmX Corridor EmX is the name given to LTD's bus rapid transit system. The first EmX line, the Franklin EmX, is in service. Pioneer Parkway EmX, a Springfield extension of the Franklin EmX, is expected to be in service in 2010. The third EmX corridor, which is expected to serve West Eugene, could be in service in 2015. EmX planning in this corridor will be part of a broader study of possible transportation improvements for West Eugene. The Transportation Appropriations conference agreement now must be approved by the Senate. The President has threatened to veto the bill.
11.15.2007	November 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) made the following statement in response to House passage of the conference agreement on H.R. 3074, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2008 yesterday. The bill passed by a vote of 270-147. DeFazio is the Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) made the following statement in response to House passage of the conference agreement on H.R. 3074, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2008 yesterday. The bill passed by a vote of 270-147. DeFazio is the Chairman of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee. "I am pleased to vote for this transportation spending bill that makes key investments in our infrastructure. It's not a perfect bill, but it comes close to meeting the funding guarantees we set out in SAFETEA-LU. H.R. 3074 fully funds highway programs at the authorized SAFETEA-LU levels." "According to the 2005 Report Card by the American Society of Civil Engineers, we need to invest $94 billion annually to improve our road infrastructure nationally. And that hasn’t been adjusted for inflation or the rise in construction costs. Every year we’re investing just a fraction of the cost of our needs, yet the President has said he’ll veto a transportation spending bill that’s just 3% more than his request for the Transportation Department. That is irresponsible." "Although the bill provides less funding than the authorized amount for transit, I am pleased the appropriators provided significantly more funding than the President requested. The administration actually proposed drastically cutting funding from the transit New Starts program. To further drive home the point that this President doesn't support transit, USDOT used all its FY07 discretionary transit money to bribe five communities to participate in their Urban Partners program." "Congress has not authorized the administration's Congestion Initiative or the Congestion-Reduction Demonstration Initiatives, and I am highly concerned with the Department's use of federal discretionary funds to implement unauthorized initiatives. It appears that the USDOT intends to continue the same Congestion Initiative that Congress refused to fund in this bill, but with a thinly-veiled name change." "The discretionary programs from which USDOT has taken FY07 funding and proposes to take FY08 funding to support its Congestion Initiative have specific, statutorily-based eligibility requirements and goals. For instance, the federal statute does not give the Secretary the express authority to evaluate and award bus grants based on factors not enumerated in the statute, such as congestion pricing. Nevertheless, USDOT has awarded and again plans to award bus grants only to those "qualified jurisdictions" that employ "direct highway pricing during congested periods." This approach takes federal funding away from statutorily authorized uses and directs it toward Bush Administration initiatives not authorized by law." "I applaud the appropriators for including language in this bill to prohibit the Administration from spending FY08 dollars to pursue their fatally-flawed proposed rule for the New Starts/Small Starts programs. The FTA's proposed rule would drastically change the ways in which New Starts and Small Starts projects are evaluated, rated, and constructed. If allowed to go forward, the programs would have been drastically altered in defiance of clear congressional intent and would have been detrimentally affected for years to come." "I am also pleased that in light of the tragic August bridge collapse in Minnesota, the appropriators have provided vitally important funds to help states deal with the backlog of deficient bridges throughout the country." "And, finally, I applaud the appropriators for holding firm and upholding the overwhelming will of the Congress to prohibit the use of federal funds to implement the Administration's cross-border pilot program to allow Mexican-domiciled trucks into the U.S. Mexican trucks pose a serious threat to the safety of our highways and the security of our country." In May, the House voted overwhelmingly, 411-3, to pass H.R. 1773, the Safe American Roads Act of 2007, legislation which would extend the pilot program to three years and ensure that DOT establishes a process to analyze the impact of allowing Mexican trucks on our nation's roadways, before the border is completely opened. Provisions were also included in the FY 2007 Iraq War Supplemental spending bill to impose strict measures to ensure that the pilot program adheres to safety and security guidelines and that its progress is assessed by an independent panel. The conference agreement must now be passed by the Senate before heading to the President, who is expected to veto the bill.
11.15.2007	November 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that yesterday the House approved $450,000 for dock renovation at the Port of Gold Beach. DeFazio requested funding for the project. The funding was included H.R. 3074, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for fiscal year. The bill was approved by a vote of 270-147. The Gold Beach High Dock is over 30 years old and has a steel base that is showing visible signs of deterioration. This has created an urgent need to renovate the structure and ensure its safety and utility in the future. Restoration and repair of the high dock is essential for the port to maintain the current fishing fleet and attract additional economic development. The funding will be used to assist the port in making much-needed improvements. The Transportation Appropriations conference agreement must now be approved by the Senate. The President has threatened to veto the bill.
11.08.2007	November 8, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), a tough critic of so-called free trade agreements, today will vote against H.R. 3688, the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement. The bill is expected to pass. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), a tough critic of so-called free trade agreements, today will vote against H.R. 3688, the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement. The bill is expected to pass. Previous trade agreements like NAFTA, CAFTA and the WTO have led to the export of millions of high-paying American jobs to low wage havens like China and Mexico; an erosion in U.S. living standards; soaring trade deficits and an increasing reliance on foreign investors to finance these deficits, threatening our economic and national security; a significant erosion of U.S. sovereignty to international trade bureaucrats; and the dumping of subsidized foreign goods, including agricultural products, into the US. According to the Oregon Blue Book, by 2000, work at 57 Oregon plants had been shifted to Mexico or Canada in response to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Between 1997 and 2002, the U.S. government issued 112 Trade Adjustment Assistance certifications relating to Oregon layoffs caused by NAFTA. These certifications were for more than 12,000 Oregon workers who lost their jobs as a direct result of NAFTA. Looking at the numbers beyond just NAFTA, Oregon has lost more than 40,000 trade jobs due to failed trade agreements since 1994. Following is DeFazio's statement on the Peru Trade Agreement: "The dollar is dropping like a rock. We're borrowing $2 billion a day from overseas to buy things that we don't make in America anymore. We've lost 4 million manufacturing jobs nationally, and 40,000 jobs here in Oregon due to so-called free trade policies. Millions of middle class Americans are seeing their pay go stagnate or decline. Our current trade policy is a dismal failure. It's a failed engine for America's economy." "Now along comes the Peru Free Trade agreement. The advocates say the burgeoning middle class in Peru are going to be a huge market for the goods that we don't make in America anymore. They tout the breakthroughs on modest environmental and labor provisions, but the destructive multi-national corporate-written chapter 11 core, that lead to the failure of NAFTA, CAFTA, and other trade agreements, remains at the center of this policy. This agreement is by, for, and about Wall Street, plain and simple. It's not in the best interest of American workers, the U.S. economy, or our national security." "If trade is the engine that drives our economy, we need an overhaul. Instead, with this bill, we're getting a new hood ornament, some side view mirrors and a misbegotten cousin of NAFTA as a trade policy."
11.08.2007	November 7, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and 24 other members of Congress today sent a letter to three House committee chairmen calling on them to hold hearings on developments with Iran. DeFazio organized the letter which was sent to Rep. Ike Skelton, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee; Rep. Tom Lantos, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; and Rep. Silvestre Reyes, Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. The letter urges the chairmen to hold hearings to investigate the status of U.S. diplomatic efforts with Iran, Iran's nuclear activities, and preparations for U.S. military action against Iran and possible consequences of such actions. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and 24 other members of Congress today sent a letter to three House committee chairmen calling on them to hold hearings on developments with Iran. DeFazio organized the letter which was sent to Rep. Ike Skelton, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee; Rep. Tom Lantos, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; and Rep. Silvestre Reyes, Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. The letter urges the chairmen to hold hearings to investigate the status of U.S. diplomatic efforts with Iran, Iran's nuclear activities, and preparations for U.S. military action against Iran and possible consequences of such actions. Last April, DeFazio organized 62 members to sign a letter to President Bush reminding him of his constitutional obligation to seek congressional approval before making any pre-emptive military strikes in Iran. DeFazio introduced legislation, H.Con.Res. 33, which makes the same point. In September 2006, DeFazio sent a letter to Secretary Rice regarding the negotiations between Iran, the E.U. and the U.S. And, in May 2007, DeFazio offered an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense Authorization Act to prohibit the president from taking military action against Iran without authorization from Congress. Unfortunately, this amendment was defeated. The text of today's DeFazio letter follows: The Honorable Ike Skelton Chairman House Committee on Armed Services2120 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Tom LantosChairman House Committee of Foreign Affairs2170 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Silvestre ReyesChairman House Permanent Select Committee on IntelligenceH-405, U.S. CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 October 31, 2007 Dear Chairman Skelton, Chairman Lantos, and Chairman Reyes: We are alarmed by reports that planning for military action against Iran is in advanced stages. We are writing to request that your committees hold a series of hearings soon on developments with Iran, including the status and substance of the diplomatic track with Iran, intelligence related to Iran's nuclear program and activities in Iraq, and preparations for U.S. military action against Iran and the possible consequences and outcomes of such a step. We are growing increasingly concerned that the strategies used by the Bush administration in the march toward war with Iraq are being replicated in a drive to war with Iran. There are questions about the reliability of the intelligence related to Iran, both related to its nuclear program and activities in Iraq. We see shifting justifications for the possibility of military action. The administration and its allies present rosy scenarios for the outcome of military action. And there appears to be no thought given to what happens after military action is taken or to the likelihood of an Iranian response. Although there was dissent within Congress to the administration's push for war in Iraq by ourselves and others, Congress as an institution, through its committees, failed the American people. Our military, in particular, has suffered from the prior Congress' failure to ask tough questions, challenge the administration's assumptions, and force a public debate. This Congress must not make the same grave mistake. We are requesting that you bring in officials from the Department of Defense, the Department of State and the Intelligence Community and put them under oath. We are requesting that you examine the actual evidence the administration claims to have. We are asking you to seek out dissenters within the agencies. We are requesting that you bring in dozens or hundreds of experts from academia, think tanks, and elsewhere to fully examine the administration's arguments and assumptions, which do not deserve to be taken at face value. Congress needs to hear from those in favor of military action, against military action, in favor of diplomacy, and skeptical of diplomacy. Congress needs to hear from historians and from those who understand the inner workings of the Iranian regime. And Congress needs to hear from international experts and diplomats as well, including individuals in the Middle East. A few areas that we believe need to be examined include: Does the President believe he has the authority to take military action against Iran without authorization from Congress? If so, under what authority and in what circumstances? In 2003, Iran approached the United States offering to negotiate on a wide variety of long-standing issues important to our two countries, including Iran's nuclear program, support for terrorists, relations with Israel, diplomatic relations, and non-proliferation. The Bush administration rejected this request. Why? Has the situation gotten better or worse as a result of this decision? Why has the Bush administration repeatedly rejected proposals for a so-called "Grand Bargain" with Iran dealing with the nuclear issue, support for terrorism, non-aggression pacts etc. when that is exactly what the administration just agreed to with North Korea? A similarly broad deal was also cut with Libya. From 2003-2006, Iran and the E.U. (with the tacit or explicit support of the U.S.) has exchanged a variety of proposals and counter proposals that explore the possibilities of diplomatic progress in a variety of areas, including over Iran's nuclear program. What is the status of these negotiations? Why has little progress appear to have been made despite the similarities in the negotiating positions of Iran and the E.U.? Why has the U.S. conditioned our participation on a suspension of uranium enrichment rather than trying to achieve that through negotiations? What evidence does the U.S. have that Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons? What are the sources for this evidence? How reliable are they? Are there alternative explanations for this evidence? What estimates exist for how far away Iran is from developing nuclear weapons, assuming that is in fact what they're doing? What is the U.S. estimate? What are the estimates from foreign intelligence agencies? Do the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and foreign intelligence agencies agree with the U.S. analysis on the Iranian nuclear program? Do they have additional evidence? How reliable are their sources? What is the status of Iran's uranium enrichment program? What is the difference between the expertise needed to enrich uranium for producing energy versus enrichment for nuclear weapons? Even with a nuclear weapon, does Iran pose a threat to the U.S.? Can Iran be deterred? Does Iran have a delivery system capable of reaching the U.S.? What are Iran's motives for pursuing nuclear weapons? Can these motives be addressed in a way that would lead Iran to abandon this pursuit? What role does the Iranian president play, if any, in the nuclear program and Iranian defense and foreign affairs policies more generally? What role does the Revolutionary Guard play? How about the Supreme Leader? The Council of Guardians? The Assembly of Experts? The parliament? What does the interaction and competition between these branches of the Iranian government mean in terms of diplomacy, the nuclear program, and possibly military action? What evidence does the administration have related to Iranian involvement in Iraq, including the alleged supply of weapons to groups killing U.S. troops and training of Shia militias? What are the sources for this evidence? How reliable is it? Are there alternative explanations? The administration has claimed that Iran is aiding Shia and Sunni militias. What is the evidence for this? How reliable is it? What is the incentive for Shia Iran to aid Sunni militias trying to overthrow the Shia government in Iraq? Is there any evidence the Iranian government itself is involved in the alleged weapons smuggling? Former U.N. weapons inspector David Kay recently recalled seeing stockpiles of explosively formed penetrators in Iraq when he was looking for weapons of mass destruction soon after the U.S. invasion. Is it possible that the weapons being used against our troops today have come from the black market and unguarded weapons depots rather than from Iran? Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki told the Washington Post that Iraqi relations with Iran had "improved to the point that they are not interfering in our internal affairs." Is that true? Why does the Iraqi Prime Minister have a different viewpoint than U.S. military and intelligence officials? To the extent Iranian officials are involved in Iraq, are they there at the invitation of the Iraqi government? What does that mean in terms of U.S. concerns? What are the implications of military action against Iran? Could its nuclear program be destroyed, or would Iran merely accelerate it in response? What would the impact be in Iraq, particularly for U.S. troops? Would Moktada al-Sadr direct his militia to come to the aid of the Iranians as he has promised? What about other Shia militias, would they also rise up against U.S. troops? To the extent some argue that there is still a chance for U.S. troops to stabilize Iraq, wouldn't that be obliterated by military action against Iran? Many experts believe Iran would retaliate against Israel, as well as in the E.U. and maybe in the U.S. Does Iran have the capability to do so? What is the likelihood of such attacks? What is the likely scale of such attacks? Can they be prevented? The administration is reportedly changing its military strategy for Iran from one of counterproliferation (i.e. bombing Iran's nuclear sites) to one of counterterrorism (i.e. bombing facilities associated with the Revolutionary Guard Corps because of their alleged involvement in Iraq). What are the implications of this change? How would Iran respond? How do the different military services view military action against Iran? Are the Army and Marines supportive? What about the Navy and Air Force? Are there plans to insert ground forces, including special forces, into Iran? Has the U.S. already inserted special forces into Iran in order to work with Iranian opposition groups and survey possible bombing targets? Given the strain on the U.S. military from the war in Iraq, does the U.S. even have enough troops for a sustained campaign against Iran? The Iranian people are widely believed to be pro-West. How would the Iranian people respond to an attack on their country? What are the views of U.S. allies, both in the region and outside the region, on the wisdom of military action against Iran? Thank you for your consideration of our request and for your important work on behalf of the American people. Sincerely, DeFazio Woolsey Danny Davis Blumenauer Hirono Maloney Farr Fattah Grijalva Kucinich Welch Lee Christensen Hooley Honda Baldwin M. Udall Filner McGovern Hinchey Norton Jackson Jr. Moran Schakowsky Ellison
11.08.2007	November 8, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today blasted federal officials for failing to implement a meaningful drug testing program for commercial truck drivers. DeFazio, the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, held a hearing to review the vulnerabilities of the Drug and Alcohol Testing (DAT) programs administered by motor carriers. DeFazio described the findings as "shocking." —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today blasted federal officials for failing to implement a meaningful drug testing program for commercial truck drivers. DeFazio, the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, held a hearing to review the vulnerabilities of the Drug and Alcohol Testing (DAT) programs administered by motor carriers. DeFazio described the findings as "shocking." The General Accountability Office (GAO) has found that 100 percent of the collection facilities they tested in an undercover operation failed to secure the facility from substances that could be used to adulterate or dilute urine samples. There are an estimated 10,000 facilities that provide urine specimen collection for DOT-regulated industries and over 700,000 commercial truck drivers operating in the country. When collectors don't follow required protocols and facilities are not in compliance with DOT regulations, drug users can evade detection. Additionally, in 2004 report, the FMCSA found that the agency needs a national database to get at the serious problem of job hopping. Currently, it's possible, and not uncommon, for a driver who tests positive while driving for one company, to go to work driving for another company without receiving treatment and without consequence as it's up to the employee to self-report any past positive drug tests to a new employer. To date, the FMCSA has not made progress in establishing this national database. The following is DeFazio's opening statement at today's hearing: "As it turns out, here in the United States of America, we have no meaningful program of drug testing for commercial truck drivers. None. We're going to hear about that today. The collection facilities are easily penetrated with false drivers licenses. Devices are easily smuggled into facilities to alter urine samples -- a host of these products are readily available on the internet. What's more is that the FMCSA has been aware of this problem. In their testimony, they will say they weren't surprised by the GAO findings that the collection facilities/testing facilities are loophole ridden and provide tests whose results were easily modified and made meaningless. We're going to hear testimony that there was a 2004 report about the problem of job hopping so even when the faulty drug testing system works, drivers who test positive driving for one company can go to work driving for another company without getting treatment, consequence or knowledge. No one knows how many drivers abuse drugs but conservative estimates are it's 1.7 percent -- that's 170,000 truck drivers driving 80,000 pound trucks on our highways and through our communities putting the public at severe risk. The random anonymous testing done in Oregon earlier this year shows the percent could be five times higher. We don't know. There is no meaningful system. This is shocking. This situation cries out for action. If the FMCSA lacks legal authority to implement a database to prevent job hopping, they should tell us. But their testimony says they're still thinking about it. We need a national system so when a drug abusing truck driver, who doesn't complete treatment, tries to go to a different trucking company and start driving again, we stop him cold. I applaud North Carolina and the few other states that have taken steps that we could take nationally to prevent people from getting killed by drug abusing truck drivers on our highways. I intend to work to see that Congress does just that.
10.18.2007	October 18, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted to override President Bush's veto of H.R. 976, bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The SCHIP bill would protect the existing health care coverage for 6.6 million children and extend coverage to 3.8 million additional children who are currently uninsured. The bill would extend coverage to an additional 36,000 children in Oregon alone. The override failed by 15 votes. H.R. 976 would increase funding for SCHIP by $35 billion over five years. The bill improves health care coverage providing dental coverage for all enrolled kids and provides mental health coverage on par with coverage for physical ailments. President Bush vetoed the bill because he is ideologically opposed to extending health care to children through SCHIP. He has also complained the cost of the bill is too high. Instead, he argues the tax code should be changed to provide incentives for all families to shop for health care on their own. Yet, the annual cost of providing health care to 10 million children is equivalent to funding 41 days of the ongoing war in Iraq. "Protecting the health of children is a moral obligation," Congressman DeFazio said. "These are the most vulnerable members of our society and it's shameful that so many lack basic health services. H.R. 976 is a good start toward providing health care security to call Americans." DeFazio continued, "This bill is also good for taxpayers and our economy, because insuring kids means healthier kids, which improves their ability to get an adequate education and become productive members of society while also reducing the burden on taxpayers of paying for emergency room care for the uninsured, the most expensive place to get basic health care."
10.10.2007	October 10, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted for passage of H.R. 400, the War Profiteering Prevention Act, legislation which would prohibit overcharging on federal contracts in order to defraud or profit unnecessarily from war, military action or reconstruction efforts. DeFazio cosponsored the bill back in February and was a cosponsor of similar legislation in the 109th Congress. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted for passage of H.R. 400, the War Profiteering Prevention Act, legislation which would prohibit overcharging on federal contracts in order to defraud or profit unnecessarily from war, military action or reconstruction efforts. DeFazio cosponsored the bill back in February and was a cosponsor of similar legislation in the 109th Congress. "While our troops heroically and selflessly serve in difficult situations abroad, I am disgusted that some private contractors have chosen to unjustly profit off of war by engaging in assorted schemes just to make a buck," said DeFazio. "Today, the House is taking a long overdue stand against putting the almighty dollar ahead of the well-being of our troops and against private companies who undermine the mission in Iraq through their fraudulent practices." Contracting for goods and services to support U.S. missions abroad, especially in military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan, has increased significantly recently. Congress and inspectors general are investigating a host of contract fraud allegations including kickbacks, bid-rigging, embezzlement, fraudulent over-billing, and failure to provide promised goods and services in overseas contracts. For example, according to the Defense Contract Audit Agency, there have been more than $10 billion in suspect billings in Iraqi contracts. Of that amount, $2.7 billion are from Halliburton. Current federal law does not explicitly extend extraterritorial jurisdiction for contract fraud committed while working in support of U.S. missions abroad. Federal law also does not extend jurisdiction to contract fraud committed against provisional authorities (temporary governments) supporting U.S. missions abroad. In one case, Custer Battles, LLC, a contractor with offices in Virginia, which worked for the former Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, was found to have committed 37 counts of fraud related to over-billing. U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III, however, overturned the decision on the grounds that the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq was not part of the U.S. government, and current U.S. federal fraud laws could not apply. "Contractors have been operating in a legal black hole in Iraq and Afghanistan. This legislation is just one more necessary step toward restoring accountability to the President's flawed policies in Iraq," concluded DeFazio. The War Profiteering Prevention Act covers fraud and attempted fraud on contracts issued by the U.S. government or any provisional authority for work in support of U.S. government activities abroad such as war, relief, and reconstruction efforts. Such fraudulent activities would include making materially false statements, concealing a fraud scheme, and overvaluing goods and services with the intent to defraud. Violations would be punishable by up to 20 years in prison and a fine of either $1 million or up to twice the fraudulently obtained proceeds, whichever is greater. Any fraudulently obtained proceeds may be subject to forfeiture. The Senate must now act on the bill.
10.09.2007	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that he sent a letter to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Kevin Martin, in response to recent actions by Verizon to deny an application from NARAL Pro-Choice America from using Verizon's text message service. Due to public pressure, Verizon reversed course, but their policy still states; "Verizon Wireless reserves the right to remove or block access to any of the content, by whatever means it deems necessary in its sole discretion, without notice." The policy goes on to state "There is a zero-tolerance policy for non-compliance." This policy is not unique among telecommunications companies. For instance, AT&T recently unveiled their updated license agreement for DSL users with similar language. With more and more people using blackberries, instant messaging and email, consumers have moved beyond simple voice to voice communication. Congressman DeFazio is calling on Chairman Martin to ensure that the principles of free expression remain sacrosanct, both from interference and censorship by the government as well as private companies. DeFazio's letter follows: October 4th, 2007 The Honorable Kevin Martin Chairman, The Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Chairman Martin: I am writing to express my alarm at the recent actions of two of the largest telecommunications carriers in the United States and urge that the Federal Communications Commission take action to protect consumers and free speech going forward. As you know, it was reported recently that Verizon Communications refused to allow NARAL, a pro-choice advocacy group, to communicate to its membership through Verizon mobile text-messaging platform. While they quickly reversed their decision due to public pressure, it raises serious concerns about free speech in our digital world. If Verizon Communications had attempted to block NARAL from calling its members using its incumbent wireline network, it would have violated basic common carrier laws under Title II of the Communications Act. As more of my constituents use mobile data to communicate with their family and friends, it is critical that our nation's regulatory officials reexamine how these companies operate in this space. In another instance, AT&T recently released their new terms of service for DSL users. In it they declare that they will reserve the right to terminate a subscriber's service for any conduct that they believe "tends to damage the name or reputation of AT&T, or its parents, affiliates and subsidiaries." Then, in August of this year, during a live webcast of a performance by the rock band Pearl Jam, AT&T censored out a comment made by a member of the group that criticized President Bush. Should we be worried that they will now terminate services if a customer espouses a belief that AT&T doesn't like? As a congressman that relies on the use of my Blackberry to communicate with my staff, should I be worried that my communications will be blocked if my local incumbent wireline or wireless company doesn't agree with my politics? A few years ago talk like this would be dismissed as the stuff of fiction more in keeping with a George Orwell novel. We live in a country that is founded on the free expression of ideas. It has been one of the bedrock principles of this country for over 200 years. Now that principle is threatened. In our increasingly digital age, technological advances have made it so Americans contact each other through new and more innovative technologies. We must ensure that the principles of free expression remain sacrosanct, both from interference and censorship by the government as well as private companies. Chairman Martin, I strongly urge you to prove to the American people that as we adapt to our growing technology, we don't do it at the expense of our most basic freedoms. I encourage you to investigate these two cases and protect interference with text messaging. I look forward to your response to this matter Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
10.03.2007	October 3, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the Federal Railroad Administrator, Joseph Boardman, has agreed to have his agency perform a physical inspection of the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon to evaluate what, if any, repairs are necessary to make the line safe for operation. CORP cited unsafe tunnel conditions as its reason to immediately close the line. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the Federal Railroad Administrator, Joseph Boardman, has agreed to have his agency perform a physical inspection of the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon to evaluate what, if any, repairs are necessary to make the line safe for operation. CORP cited unsafe tunnel conditions as its reason to immediately close the line. CORP gave no advance notice that it would be shutting down this critical line leaving shippers without a viable way to get their goods to market. Georgia-Pacific subsequently announced it is stopping operations at its Coos Bay sawmill and laid off 120 workers indefinetly saying the stoppage is related to CORP's embargo of this line. DeFazio personally discussed CORP's sudden closure of the line with the U.S. Transportation Secretary, Mary Peters, and FRA Administrator Boardman. The FRA is evaluating CORP's recent engineering reports and agreed to conduct a physical inspection of the line next week. The FRA has had this CORP line under compliance review since December 2005 after deciding the railroad was inadequately maintaining and inspecting its tracks. The FRA last inspected the line in October 2006. While there were known problems with the line, CORP never communicated with its customers or the Oregon Department of Transportation that the line had deteriorated so badly that an emergency closure might be necessary.
09.26.2007	September 26, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today lauded passage of the Public Land Communities Transition Act of 2007, legislation that would reauthorize the successful "county payments" law for an additional four years. The legislation, HR 3058, was introduced in July by DeFazio and Rep. Nick Rahall, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee. During today's mark-up DeFazio offered an amendment in the nature of a substitute to reduce the cost of the bill and to change the offsets used to fund the bill. The bill was approved by a voice vote. "The county payments program is the lifeblood of rural counties across America who serve as stewards of our federal lands," DeFazio said. "These rural counties cannot continue to survive indefinitely in crisis mode. They need certainty, and they need time to transition and plan how they're going to operate with reduced federal assistance. This legislation accomplishes that goal. I appreciate Chairman Rahall's leadership, and the support of committee members today who helped move a solution forward for the sake of our rural communities." Of Oregon's 36 counties, 32 received payments through the program totaling over $282 million last year. Because of the large amount of timber historically harvested from federal lands in Oregon, Oregon counties have received significant payments from the program, with the Fourth District of Oregon receiving the most federal investment. Before the program was passed in 2000, DeFazio had pushed to make the program permanent program. However, due to objections by some in the timber industry and even some county officials, the program was modified to be a six year program. As the program faced expiration last year, counties in Oregon and across the nation began to close libraries, lay off county employees, curtail sheriff patrols, early-release prisoners, curtail search and rescue operations, deny mental health services, and, at least one county is on the brink of declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. Earlier this year, DeFazio and others made numerous attempts to extend the program, and ultimately were successful in getting a one year extension of the program attached to the emergency supplemental appropriations bill earlier this year. Counties will receive funding under that law through next June. However, given the uncertainty of continued federal assistance, many counties have continued to slash funding for vital services like education, health care, and law enforcement. In July, DeFazio and Rep. Nick Rahall, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee introduced HR 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Assistance Act of 2007. The bill is based on the Wyden formula originally offered earlier this year. That proposal, mirrored in H.R. 3058, is a multi-year reauthorization of the county payments program, ramps down funding for the program 10% per year, while ramping up the Payments-in-Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program during the same four year timeframe. In response to testimony during a July hearing on HR 3058, DeFazio made several changes to the bill, and today offered an amendment in the nature of a substitute to address those concerns. First, the substitute made several changes in the bill to reduce the overall cost of the legislation. Those changes include extending the Secure Rural Schools program through 2011 rather than 2012, which will result in a cost saving of $761 million. The substitute also ramps up PILT payments over three years, rather than to immediately fully fund PILT. This change will result in a cost saving of about $112 million. Finally, the substitute changed the "offsets" to pay for the bill. As introduced, the bill would have authorized the Interior Secretary to raise revenue from commercial activities to offset the costs of the bill. However, during the July hearing several Republican members expressed concerns about those offsets. The substitute uses the fees from Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas leases to pay for the bill. Total cost of the bill is estimated at $2.7 billion over four years. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the OCS fees will provide $2.875 billion over five years. Next step: The legislation must be considered by the House Committee on Agriculture before the bill can be brought to the House floor for a vote. The legislation must be considered by the House Committee on Agriculture before the bill can be brought to the House floor for a vote.
09.26.2007	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent a letter to the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Joseph Boardman, asking the FRA to evaluate recent engineering reports the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) used to justify the immediate closure of the rail line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent a letter to the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Joseph Boardman, asking the FRA to evaluate recent engineering reports the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) used to justify the immediate closure of the rail line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon. DeFazio also asked the FRA to perform a physical inspection of the line and evaluate what, if any, repairs are necessary to make the line safe for operation. The FRA has had this CORP line under compliance review since December 2005 and last inspected the line in October 2006. While there were known problems with the line, CORP never communicated with its customers or the Oregon Department of Transportation that the line had deteriorated so badly that an emergency closure might be necessary. The line is critical to shippers and industry along the south coast of Oregon. Yesterday, Georgia-Pacific announced it is stopping operations at its Coos Bay sawmill and that this stoppage is related to CORP's embargo of this line. A copy of DeFazio's letter follows. September 26, 2007 The Honorable Joseph Boardman Administrator Federal Railroad Administration Mail Stop: 20 Room: 75 1120 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20590 Dear Administrator Boardman: I write to you regarding the recent decision by the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP) to embargo its line between Coquille, Oregon and Vaughn, Oregon in my congressional district. On September 21st, CORP announced it was embargoing this line due to unsafe tunnel conditions. The CORP line is vital for shippers and industry along the south coast of Oregon and CORP gave no advance notice it would be shutting the line down, leaving shippers suddenly without a viable way to get their goods to market. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has had this CORP line under compliance review since December 2005 and last inspected a tunnel on the line in October 2006. While federal inspectors at the time did find Tunnel #15 to be in poor condition they did not issue an Emergency Order to close the line. While there were known problems with the CORP line, CORP never communicated to its customers or the Oregon Department of Transportation that the line had deteriorated so badly that an emergency closure might be necessary. I respectfully request the FRA evaluate and respond to the findings in the engineering reports CORP used to justify the immediate closure of this line. I also request that FRA tunnel inspectors perform a physical inspection of the line and evaluate what, if any, repairs are necessary to make the line safe for operation. Finally, I would like to know what further operational constraints the FRA might put on the line to keep it running safely. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. I look forward to learning the results of your evaluation and inspection. Given the gravity of the impact on businesses in my district from this sudden closure, I would appreciate a progress report on your investigation by October 12, 2007. Sincerely, PETER A. DEFAZIO Member of Congress
09.26.2007	September 26, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) today voted in favor of H.R. 976, bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), protecting existing health care coverage for 6.6 million children and extending coverage to 3.8 million children who are currently uninsured. The bill will extend coverage to 36,000 additional children in Oregon alone. The annual cost of providing health care to 10 million children is equivalent to 41 days worth of funding for the ongoing war in Iraq. "Protecting the health of children is a moral obligation," Congressman DeFazio said. "These are the most vulnerable members of our society and it's shameful that so many lack basic health services. H.R. 976 is a good start toward providing health care security to call Americans." DeFazio continued, "This bill is also good for taxpayers and our economy, because insuring kids means healthier kids, which improves their ability to get an adequate education and become productive members of society while also reducing the burden on taxpayers of paying for emergency room care for the uninsured, the most expensive place to get basic health care." H.R. 976 enjoys strong bipartisan support. The bill increases funding for CHIP by $35 billion over five years, which will be used to maintain coverage for 6.6 million children, including 53,000 Oregon children, expand coverage to 3.8 million children who are eligible under existing rules but are not currently enrolled in the program, and improve health care coverage under CHIP. The benefit improvements include dental coverage for all kids enrolled in CHIP and mental health coverage on par with coverage for physical ailments. President Bush has threatened to veto the bill because he is ideologically opposed to extending health care to children through CHIP and instead believes in using the tax code to provide incentives for all families to shop for health care on their own. He has also complained about the cost of the bill, though, unlike his $200 billion request for Iraq that Congress will consider soon, and the $566 billion that has already been provided for the war in Iraq, H.R. 976 will not add a single penny to the federal deficit.
09.20.2007	September 20, 2007 Washington, DC -Rep. Peter DeFazio today voted for passage of H.R. 2881, the FAA Reauthorization Act, legislation which will modernize the nation's aging air traffic control system, help reduce our congested airways, improve passenger safety and improve security at foreign repair stations. DeFazio is a senior member of the House Aviation Subcommittee. The bill passed by a vote of 267-151. BRep. Peter DeFazio today voted for passage of H.R. 2881, the FAA Reauthorization Act, legislation which will modernize the nation's aging air traffic control system, help reduce our congested airways, improve passenger safety and improve security at foreign repair stations. DeFazio is a senior member of the House Aviation Subcommittee. The bill passed by a vote of 267-151. "The aviation industry is a cornerstone of our economy counting for 12 percent of our gross domestic product. The investments included in this bill will provide for vital improvements and upgrades that will help regenerate this struggling industry, stimulate local economies and anticipate future demand," DeFazio said. "The administration proposed a fee structure aimed at the heart of general aviation and, ironically, would have decreased the amount of funding available for an already over-congested and over-burdened air system. This bill will get us the needed investments to deal with congestion and the next generation of air traffic control, allow us to partner with airports to deal with their needs through an increase in the passenger facility charge, includes critical considerations for the people who keep us alive -- the air traffic controllers -- who are being demeaned by petty work rules and having their compensation cut, and provides long-overdue improvements in cabin air quality." "Consumers experienced record airline delays this summer, clearly we can do better in the United States of America," DeFazio continued. Air traffic is expected to triple by 2025. This bill includes $18 billion for new runways, runway extensions, taxiways, and apron construction to help increase the ease of passengers and cargo getting through airports and onto their destinations on time. The bill also includes $13 billion for the FAA to upgrade and modernize the aging air traffic control system which will help improve efficiency and safety for the flying public. The bill also includes important consumer protection provisions which DeFazio pushed for. The bill mandates that the Department of Transportation increase the amount of compensation airlines must pay passengers when they are bumped from a flight. That amount hasn't been adjusted in almost thirty years. The bill would create an 800 number for aviation consumer complaints and require the FAA to publicize it so consumers can actually use it. The bill mandates a study comparing the European Union's passenger compensation regulations to those in the U.S. The EU is light years ahead of the US in passenger protections in cases of overbooked, cancelled or delayed flights. The bill also includes long-overdue improvements in cabin air quality which has been linked to a variety of health and safety concerns. Finally, the bill includes an important provision allowing for more flights between Washington National Airport (DCA) and the West Coast. Getting direct service between DCA and Oregon is a top priority for Rep. DeFazio. The bill now will move to the Senate for consideration.
09.10.2007	September 10, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC— Today General David Petraeus and U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker testified before Congress on the situation in Iraq. To follow is Representative Peter DeFazio's statement on their testimony: "As I said when the President announced his plan in January to escalate the war in Iraq by sending tens of thousands of additional U.S. troops, no one should be surprised when a temporary reduction in violence is achieved. Indeed, it would be surprising if 30,000 additional U.S. troops did not have any impact on the level of violence. "Unfortunately, to the extent there has been progress on security, something that independent experts and even our intelligence agencies question, it is largely irrelevant to whether the chaos in Iraq will be resolved or whether the civil war will continue. "Ultimately, the only question that matters is whether or not Iraq political leaders are making the compromises necessary to bring about reconciliation among Sunnis, Shias and Kurds? Only that result will bring stability to Iraq. Only that result can end the violence that is driven by 1,400 years of sectarian animosity. Only that result will lead to the rebuilding of the country and the delivery of services needed by all of the Iraqi people. In response to that question, the unanimous answer is no. "The reality is that the U.S. military cannot resolve the civil war in Iraq. Only the Iraqi leaders can. As Admiral Michael G. Mullen, President Bush's nominee to head the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified to Congress at the end of July 2007. Unless the Iraqi government takes advantage of the 'breathing space' U.S. forces are providing, 'no amount of troops in no amount of time will make much of a difference.' "Regrettably, there is no credible evidence that Iraqi political leaders are interested or willing to take advantage of the situation and achieve national reconciliation. "It is past time for our troops to come home. Our troops have won the war that Congress authorized. There is no threat from weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is dead. Congress must establish a timeline by which U.S. troops are removed from Iraq over the next year. Being confronted with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal will force the Iraqi factions to reach the political compromises necessary to move their country forward. If not, there is no reason to prolong the U.S. involvement in Iraq if we want a stable country more than the Iraqi people and their elected leaders do."
09.07.2007	September 07, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives today approved a House-Senate conference report on H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, legislation that would make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, helping millions of students and families pay for college – and doing so at no new cost to U.S. taxpayers. The bill passed by a vote of 292-97. Approximately 40,000 Oregon students take out need based student loans each year. The average Oregon college student accumulates $19,000 in college debt. This legislation will provide $351 million for Oregon students and families over the next 5 years and will save students almost $5,000 in interest on their loans. “Passage of this legislation is great news for Oregon students," DeFazio said. "Tuition and fees at four-year public colleges and universities have risen 41 percent in six years. We must ensure that a good education is within the grasp of every American. Reducing interest rates on subsidized student loans and increasing funding for Pell Grants will help reduce the financial barriers to a college education." Under H.R. 2669, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $1,090 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant would reach $5,400 in 2012, up from $4,050 in 2006, thus restoring the Pell’s purchasing power. About 6 million low- and moderate-income students would benefit from this increase. The legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. About 6.8 million students take out need-based loans each year. The legislation would also prevent student borrowers from facing unmanageable levels of federal student debt by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments and by allowing borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 25 years. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; Loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions; Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; The bill will now go to the President for his signature.
09.06.2007	September 6, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today was joined by other members of Congress, highway safety advocates, independent drivers, and a woman who lost three family members in a crash involving a Mexican truck urging the Administration to listen to the will of the House and not implement the cross-border pilot program. —Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today was joined by other members of Congress, highway safety advocates, independent drivers, and a woman who lost three family members in a crash involving a Mexican truck urging the Administration to listen to the will of the House and not implement the cross-border pilot program. The Administration still hasn't addressed basic concerns about the pilot program. Mexico-domiciled truck drivers are notoriously abused. They are often forced to drive up to 72 hours without sleep in order to make deliveries and freely admit they have to use stimulants in order to make those runs. The pilot program does not ensure that Mexican trucking companies meet U.S. safety standards such as regulating hours of service, vehicle safety, driver training and licensing, and drug testing. "The Administration has indicated to me that tomorrow they will open the US border to 100 Mexican-domiciled trucking companies," DeFazio said. "This is a sad day for America. Mexican trucks pose a serious threat to the safety of our highways and the security of our country. This Administration is hell-bent on opening up our borders but has failed to require that Mexican drivers and trucks meet the same safety and security standards as US drivers and trucks. That's simply unacceptable. The Administration is essentially adopting a faith-based paper system without adequate protections for public safety." "I will continue to push the Senate to act, as the House did, to prevent this program from going forward," DeFazio continued. "The safety of the traveling public must come first -- before the Administration's fantasies about free trade." Earlier this year, Secretary of Transportation Peters announced the Administration's intent to implement a one-year pilot program to allow up to 100 trucking companies from Mexico full access to U.S. highways. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) made clear that at the conclusion of the one-year pilot program, the US-Mexico border would be permanently open to Mexican trucks without any analysis of the impacts of the program. In May, the House voted overwhelmingly, 411-3, to pass H.R. 1773, the Safe American Roads Act of 2007, legislation which would extend the pilot program to three years and ensure that DOT establishes a process to analyze the impact of allowing Mexican trucks on our nation's roadways, before the border is completely opened. Provisions were also included in the FY 2007 Iraq War Supplemental spending bill (P.L. 110-28) to impose strict measures to ensure that the pilot program adheres to safety and security guidelines and that its progress is assessed by an independent panel. And in July, the House approved an amendment offered by Rep. DeFazio to prohibit the use of federal funds to implement the pilot program. The amendment was offered to H.R. 3074, the FY 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Act and was approved by a voice vote. The Senate has not taken similar action. Federal law states that the Administration cannot jeopardize or degrade the safety of the American public by circumventing truck safety standards or congressional oversight in implementing this pilot program. Congress enacted these provisions after growing frustration with the Administration’s clear desire to open the border at any cost, without regard for the safety of the traveling public. DeFazio chairs the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit which has jurisdiction over motor carriers.
08.10.2007	WILL HOLD TOWN MEETINGS, SPEAK TO PHILOMATH ROTARY WASHINGTON, DC U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit Linn and Benton Counties on Tuesday, August 14th to hold three town hall meetings and speak to the Philomath Rotary. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the month of August and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss current issues before Congress, like passage of legislation to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations, the College Cost Reduction Act which is the largest investment in financial aid in 60 years, legislation to extend health care coverage to children and seniors, his fight to continue the vital county payments program, new forest thinning legislation, and the ongoing war in Iraq. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Tuesday, August 14, 2007 10:00-11:00 AM Monroe Town Hall Meeting American Legion Hall 605 Main Street Monroe 11:45 AM - 1:00 PM Address Philomath Rotary College United Methodist Church 1123 Main Street Philomath 1:30-2:30 PM Corvallis Town Hall Meeting Corvallis Senior Center 2601 NW Tyler Avenue Corvallis 5:30-6:30 PM Albany Town Hall Meeting Albany City Council Chambers 333 Broadalbin SW Albany (**NOTICE: The address for the Albany Town Hall was incorrect in DeFazio's August 2007 newsletter mailed to Oregonians. The correct address is above.***)
08.10.2007	Tuesday, August 14, 2007 10:30 AM-11:30 AM MONROE Town Hall Meeting Location: American Legion Hall, 605 Main Street, Monroe 1:30 PM -2:30 PM CORVALLIS Town Hall Meeting Location: Corvallis Senior Center, 2601 NW Tyler Avenue 5:30 PM -6:30 PM ALBANY Town Hall Meeting Location: Albany City Council Chambers, 333 Broadalbin SW; 917-7509. Wednesday, August 15, 2007 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM EUGENE Senior Town Hall Meeting Location: Campbell Senior Center, 155 High Street; Eugene; 682-5318 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM SPRINGFIELD Town Hall Meeting Location: Springfield City Council Chambers, 225 5th Street; 726-3700 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM EUGENE Town Hall Meeting Location: EWEB Training Center and Community Room, 500 E. 4th Ave, Eugene; Thursday, August 16, 2007 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM REEDSPORT Town Hall Meeting Location: Port of Umpqua Conference Room, 364 North 4th Street, Reedsport, Oregon 97467 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM COOS BAY Town Hall Meeting Location: CB City Council Chambers, 500 Central, Coos Bay, Oregon 97420 500 Central 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM BANDON Town Hall Meeting Location: Sprague Community Room, Bandon Public Library, City Park, 1204 11th Street SW, Bandon Friday, August 17, 2007 10:30 AM - 11:30 AM BROOKINGS Town Hall Meeting Location: Community Room, Chetco Community Library, 405 Alder Street, Brookings 12:30 PM - 1:30 PM GOLD BEACH Town Hall Meeting Location: Blue Room, Curry County Annex , 94235 Moore St., Gold Beach, Oregon 97444 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM PORT ORFORD Town Hall Meeting Location: Port Orford City Council Chambers , 555 West 20th Street, Port Orford, Oregon 97465 Monday, August 20, 2007 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM SUTHERLIN Town Hall Meeting Location: Sutherlin Community Center, 151 S. Willamette, Sutherlin; 459-2856 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM CANYONVILLE Town Hall Meeting Location: Seven Feathers Convention Center, Room A, 146 Chief Miwaleta Lane, Canyonville; 839-1160 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM GRANTS PASS Town Hall Meeting Location: Anne Basker Auditorium, 604 NW 6th Street, Grants Pass; 474-5221 Tuesday, August 21, 2007 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM ROSEBURG Town Hall Meeting Location: Roseburg City Council Chambers, 900 SE Douglas; 672-7701
08.09.2007	HE WILL HOLD TOWN MEETINGS, ATTEND LANE COUNTY FAIR WASHINGTON, DCCU.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit Lane County on Wednesday, August 15th to hold three town hall meetings and attend a senior social at the Lane County Fair. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the August district work period and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio plans to discuss current issues before Congress, like passage of legislation to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations, the College Cost Reduction Act which is the largest investment in financial aid in 60 years, legislation to extend health care coverage to children and seniors, his fight to continue the vital county payments program, new forest thinning legislation, and the ongoing war in Iraq. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Wednesday, August 15, 2007 10:30 AM-1:30 PM Senior Social Lane County Fairgrounds Museum Courtyard 196 W. 13th Avenue Eugene 2:00-3:00 PM Eugene Senior Town Hall Meeting Campbell Senior Center 155 High Street Eugene 5:30-6:30 PM Springfield Town Hall Meeting Springfield City County Chambers 225 5th Street Springfield 7:00-8:00 PM Eugene Town Hall Meeting EWEB Training Center and Community Room 500 E. 4th Avenue Eugene
08.09.2007	DeFAZIO TO VISIT COOS AND CURRY COUNTIES HE WILL HOLD TOWN MEETINGS, TOUR HARDIN OPTICAL WASHINGTON, DC-U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) will visit Coos and Curry Counties on Thursday, August 16th and Friday, August 17th to hold six town hall meetings and tour Hardin Optical in Bandon. The House of Representatives recently adjourned for the month of August and DeFazio has visits scheduled throughout the 4th Congressional District. DeFazio will host the following two town hall meetings in the area on Thursday, August 16th: the Port of Umpqua Conference Room at 10:00 a.m., the Coos Bay City Council Chambers at 12:00 p.m., and the Bandon Public Library at 2:30 p.m. DeFazio will tour Hardin Optical in Bandon at 3:45 p.m. Hardin Optical is a family owned and operated business in Bandon with 75 employees, and manufactures precision optical components for the electro-optical and aerospace industries. DeFazio will host three additional town hall meetings on Friday, August 17th: the Chetco Community Library in Brookings at 10:30 a.m., the Curry County Annex at 12:30 p.m., and the Port Orford City Council Chambers at 3:00 p.m. DeFazio will also meet with public officials in Brookings at 8:30 a.m. DeFazio plans to discuss current issues before Congress, like passage of legislation to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations, the College Cost Reduction Act which is the largest investment in financial aid in 60 years, legislation to extend health care coverage to children and seniors, his fight to continue the vital county payments program, new forest thinning legislation, and the ongoing war in Iraq. The meetings will give DeFazio an opportunity to hear concerns and answer questions about federal issues. Thursday, August 16, 2007 10:00-11:00 AM Reedsport Town Hall Meeting Port of Umpqua Conference Room 364 North 4th Street Reedsport 12:00 - 1:00 PM Coos Bay Town Hall Meeting Coos Bay City Council Chambers 500 Central Coos Bay 2:30-3:30 PM Bandon Town Hall Meeting Sprague Community Room Bandon Public Library 1204 11th Street, SW Bandon 3:45-4:30 PM Tour Hardin Optical 87679 Kehl Lane Bandon Friday, August 17, 2007 8:30-9:30 AM Breakfast with Curry County Elected Officials Smuggler's Cove (meeting room) 16011 Boat Basin Road Brookings 10:30-11:30 AM Brookings Town Hall Meeting Community Room Chetco Community Library 405 Alder Street Brookings 12:30-1:30 PM Gold Beach Town Hall Meeting Curry County Annex - Blue Room 94235 Moore Street Gold Beach 3:00-4:00 PM Port Orford Town Hall Meeting Port Orford City Council Chambers 555 West 20th Street Port Orford
08.06.2007	August 5, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC— Early Sunday morning, U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) voted in favor of H.R. 3222, the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense (DOD) appropriations bill. The appropriations bill includes money for a variety of important benefits for our troops, equipment, weapons systems and research and development programs. It does not contain any funding for the ongoing U.S military campaign in Iraq. Congress may consider a separate Iraq-related spending bill in September. "With this bill, Congress is beginning to meet the needs of our military personnel past, present and future," said DeFazio. "Among many good provisions, H.R. 3222 will ensure our National Guard personnel have the equipment they need, improve compensation for all our military personnel, and grow the size of our armed forces to relieve the burden on our overstretched forces." "I am also gratified that the bill includes funding for several projects in Oregon that will improve our nation's defense manufacturing base, provide protective equipment for our troops and research defense technologies of the future," continued DeFazio. H.R. 3222 includes several provisions to improve benefits for our troops and military retirees, such as: A 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise, higher than proposed by the President, plus additional money for targeted bonuses. $22.957 billion for the defense health program, $416 million above the President's request. Among other things, this funding will help improve the Pentagon's electronic medical records and foster better coordination between the DOD and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Blocks the $1.9 billion in fee increases proposed by the President to shift more of the cost of health care services onto the backs of active duty and retired military personnel. $1 million for state-of-the-art Ballistic Helmet Liner Kits for Army National Guard made by an Oregon-based company. This funding was requested by DeFazio and other members of the Oregon delegation. H.R. 3222 includes funding guidelines for critical equipment and programs, such as: $925 million to address equipment shortfalls in the National Guard and Reserves. This amount meets the requirements identified by the National Guard Bureau Chief. $4 billion to cover the equipment costs of growing the Army by 7,000 new members in FY08, in order to help relieve the burden on active duty and reserve forces. $2 billion to cover the equipment costs of growing the Marines by 5,000 new members in FY08. H.R. 3222 includes funds for important projects in Oregon requested by Representative DeFazio, including: $2 million for the Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI) Tactical Energy Systems. ONAMI is a collaboration between government, industry and higher education and is located on the campuses of and combines the strengths of Oregon's major research universities: Oregon State University, Portland State University and the University of Oregon. This funding will be used to continue a project with the Army to conduct research and product development that will provide miniaturized tactical energy systems for a range of Army applications. Such man-portable energy systems minimize the logistics requirements of field operations. $1 million for the ONAMI Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative, which will be used for research focused on developing methods and techniques for work on the nanoscale that are needed for both the fabrication of electronic and photonic devices and circuits as well as for tracking their reliability under operating conditions, especially under the harsh environments endured in military applications. $2 million for the ONAMI Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing Program, which will be used to develop nanomaterials and nanomanufacturing methods that simultaneously meet the military's need for high performance materials, protect human health, and minimize harm to the environment. $1 million for the Northwest Manufacturing Initiative, which will help enhance our domestic industrial base to ensure that future defense projects can be sourced to companies here at home rather than overseas. The program will develop innovative and cost effective approaches to the repair, manufacture and improvement of parts, components and products as well as train a new generation of defense workers. H.R. 3222 also: Prohibits the establishment of permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq. Prohibits military and intelligence personnel from engaging in torture. Increases funding for key DOD contractor oversight agencies in order to crack down on the widespread waste, fraud, and abuse in defense contracting.
08.06.2007	August 6, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC— Late Saturday night, Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) voted against legislation that represents the broadest legislative attack on the civil liberties of American citizens since passage of the USA PATRIOT Act in 2001. The House followed the Senate in adopting a broad rewrite of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) demanded by the President just days ago. The bill will allow the widespread wiretapping of American citizens without a warrant and with little oversight by the special FISA court. The bill actually authorizes powers that go beyond those the administration claimed for itself under the warrantless wiretapping program revealed in the media. "I attended a classified briefing by the Director of National Intelligence, Mike McConnell earlier this week," DeFazio said. "I fully support spying on suspected terrorists, and I agree that new communication technologies have created a gap in our foreign surveillance program." Friday evening, DeFazio voted in favor of a narrower House bill that was designed to address the loophole that had arisen that restricted the ability of the National Security Agency (NSA) to spy on foreign communications that are routed through the U.S. telecommunications infrastructure. A gap publicly revealed by the House Republican Minority Leader on Tuesday. "Unfortunately, rather than considering narrowly drawn legislation to close this gap, the administration once again overreached, demanding more power than necessary to protect our country and refusing to be subject to any independent oversight," DeFazio continued. "I could not support such a sweeping and unaccountable grant of authority, particularly to an administration that has done little to earn the trust of the American people or cooperate with congressional or judicial oversight." While the House bill was approved by a majority, it was brought up under rules that required 2/3rds support to pass. After failure of the House bill, the House leadership brought up the Senate bill and passed it without amendment. The bill has already been signed by the President.
08.04.2007	August 3, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC— Today Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) voted in favor of two major energy bills, H.R. 3221, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act, and the tax code focused H.R. 2776, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act. These bills were approved 241-172 and 221-189. "This legislation will help move America toward a sustainable energy future with less reliance on foreign oil. A future that prioritizes domestic sources of energy like biofuels and wind, solar and ocean power over foreign sources of energy. A future that prioritizes clean, renewable sources of energy over polluting sources of energy," said DeFazio. "Our nation and our planet can no longer afford the dig, drill, build and burn energy policy pushed by the President, his allies in Congress and big oil companies. The sustained focus on clean energy provided by this legislation will create new industries and jobs here at home, combat global warming and begin to free our country from the strangle of foreign energy." Importantly, H.R. 3221 included a provision drafted by DeFazio that opens the door to a long term extension of the county payments program when a conference committee is created this fall to iron out the differences between the House and Senate passed energy bills. "I opposed the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which was pushed by President Bush, Dick Cheney and the fossil fuel industry. That legislation provided billions in taxpayer funded subsidies to the coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear industries. It also increased our reliance on OPEC and other foreign producers of oil." The energy bills passed today include a variety of provisions to expand production of renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel. Oregon is well positioned to become a major producer of these alternative fuels from our farms and forests. The bill contains a biomass provision crafted by DeFazio that will promote the use of materials thinned for fuel reduction and forest health to create biofuels or electricity. The bill will also improve the energy efficiency of appliances; provide financial aid to improve the energy efficiency of small businesses; bolster research into solar, geothermal and ocean energy; create new incentives to improve the energy efficiency of government buildings and those in the private sector, among many other provisions to promote renewable energy, conservation and energy efficiency. The efficiency standards alone in the bill will remove as much as 10 billion tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by 2030, more than the annual emissions of all of the cars on the road in America today. Importantly, H.R. 2776 extends through 2012 the renewable energy production tax credit (PTC), which has spurred investments in wind, solar, biomass and other renewable technologies that are producing energy today. The bill also makes ocean power eligible for the PTC, which will help promote this renewable resource off the coast of Oregon. The PTC is critical for the economic viability of renewable energy projects. The bill also extends through 2016 the energy tax credit for investment in solar energy and fuel cells.
08.02.2007	August 2, 2007 WASHINGTON, DCB U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that last night the House of Representatives authorized federal funding for several Oregon water projects. The projects were included in H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), at the request of DeFazio, a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which drafted the legislation. The projects were approved as part of a House-Senate conference agreement on WRDA, legislation to authorize funding for the Army Corps of Engineers navigation, flood control and environmental restoration projects. "This legislation is good for the economy and good for the environment," said DeFazio. "Funding for these projects will create much needed jobs and provide a boost to the economy; it will enhance navigation and enable our ports to remain competitive internationally; and it will improve fish habitat and water quality in Oregon's lakes, streams and rivers."Projects authorized under WRDA at the request of DeFazio: $35 million is authorized for the Albany Wastewater Treatment Project,which would expand the City of Albany's treatment plant to minimize the frequency and severity of sanitary sewer overflows into the Willamette River. Federal funds would be used to improve water quality and restore habitat along the Santiam and Willamette Rivers; The legislation lifts the cap on the number of days the federal west coast dredges Essayons and Yaquina can operate. The increased availability of these dredges will help meet the safety and navigation needs of Oregon's coastal ports; Language allowing the Secretary of the Army to treat the work carried out to repair the embankment dam at Fern Ridge Lake as a dam safety project. This will significantly reduce the amount of funding irrigators are required to contribute to the project; The transfer of unused land and three houses from the Corps to the Lowell School District. The school district plans to use the houses as rental properties for families with school age children, and may eventually expand school facilities to the property; A provision allowing the Army Corps of engineers to modify or eliminate deed restrictions on property owned by the City of Lowell and to allow the conveyance of land from the Corps to the City of Lowell, all of which will enable the city to work with St. Vincent dePaul to develop an affordable housing project; $15 million is authorized for studies and ecosystem restoration projects to protect, monitor and restore fish and wildlife habitat for the Upper Willamette River watershed from Albany to the headwaters of the Willamette and tributaries. Priority is to be given to restore the Eugene Mill Race; $5 million is authorized for a study to determine the feasibility of undertaking ecosystem restoration and fish passage improvements on rivers throughout the State of Oregon; The projects authorized under this bill must receive funding through the congressional appropriations process. The Senate must now pass the bill before it goes to the President for his signature.
07.31.2007	July 31, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) attended his first meeting as a member of the United States Air Force Academy Board of Visitors (USAFA BoV) over the weekend. The Board provides oversight of the morale, discipline, social climate, curriculum, instruction, and other matters relating to the Air Force Academy. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi appointed DeFazio to the Board of Visitors last month. DeFazio served in the U.S. Air Force Reserves from June, 1967 - March, 1971 and left with the rank of 2nd Lt. "I am honored to have been selected to serve on the Air Force Academy Board of Visitors," said DeFazio. "As a member of Congress, I have had the privilege to nominate young men and women from my district to attend our military academies. A closer working relationship with the Air Force Academy, in particular, provides me the opportunity to ensure this military academy is forward-looking, innovative and effective, and provides the best climate possible to train cadets." Six of the Board's fifteen members are appointed by the President of the United States, four by the Speaker of the House, three by the Vice President and one each by the Chairmen of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees. The Board discussed diversity, discipline and academic standards at the Academy and members had the opportunity to meet with Cadets.
07.30.2007	July 29, 2007 Washington, DC - Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore) announced that they would support a resolution by Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA) to investigate whether U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales should be impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors. "After careful thought and consideration, I am announcing today that I will cosponsor the resolution to begin an impeachment investigation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez," said Congressman Blumenauer. "I have been carefully monitoring the investigations and reports that have been coming out about this administration, and there are serious allegations of perjury, possible obstruction of justice, and an unwillingness to come clean with the American people and Congress. After reviewing the testimony, I'm convinced that the House should begin to investigate impeachment. I hope that this will serve as a wake-up call to the entire Bush Administration. Its refusal to be completely forthright and open with Congress and the American people has consequences and we will do whatever is necessary to protect and defend our Constitution." "It's time for Attorney General Gonzales to go," said DeFazio. "He has politicized the Department of Justice, possibly beyond repair. He's turned the department into a political arm of the Republican National Committee, rather than a department focused on enforcing the laws of the land and ensuring equal protection under the law. The Attorney General has lost the trust of both parties in Congress and the American people, the only person that still has confidence in him is President Bush. We need closure at the Department of Justice and someone in charge who can return it to an institution loyal to the U.S. Constitution, rather than a particular President."
07.30.2007	July 29, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 2863, legislation that will bring important economic development to North Bend, Oregon. The measure, which was introduced by DeFazio on June 26, 2007, passed the House by unanimous consent. "I am very pleased that I could help North Bend obtain the clearance it needed to turn an industrial eyesore into a productive economic engine for the community," Rep. DeFazio explained. "This is a win-win for everyone involved." At issue is the Nonintercourse Act, an antiquated law signed into law by President George Washington in 1790. Well-meaning at the time, the Nonintercourse Act was designed to prevent settlers from taking advantage of tribes in land speculation deals. However, it prevents the Coquille Tribe, which owns the land in North Bend, from leasing land that they purchased (not tribal reservation land) to other parties. The Coquille Tribe has proposed to develop a 55-acre former Weyerhaeuser mill site in North Bend, with the Home Depot as the anchor tenant for a new waterfront development. In addition to the Home Depot, the project will include mixed-size retail shops, a public gathering area and boardwalk. North Bend is an economically-depressed, former timber-dependent community, and due to its unique geography, has limited options for economic development other than the waterfront area. The project has overwhelming local support. "The total projected investment for this waterfront revitalization project will exceed $50 million and will bring much-needed jobs and economic development to the south coast," Congressman DeFazio noted. "All that stands in the way of this infusion of revenue is the Nonintercourse Act. I am pleased that the House took prompt action on this measure." The Senate must now take up the measure.
07.27.2007	July 27, 2007 WASHIGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted in favor of H.R. 2419, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007. Also known as the Farm Bill, H.R. 2419 sets U.S. agriculture policy for the next five years and provides funding for a variety of safety net programs for farmers and ranchers, as well as nutrition, agriculture research, conservation and rural development programs. The legislation passed the House, by a vote of 231 to 191. "I have generally voted against Farm Bills because they perpetuated a bloated system of handouts to wealthy agribusiness interests," DeFazio explained. "This bill, however, took major strides in reforming farm subsidies, targeting money to working family farmers and ensuring that organic crops and specialty crops so common in Oregon are a priority for the Department of Agriculture." The Farm Bill included major increases in funding for conservation programs, organic food production, marketing and research, small specialty crops like fruits and vegetables, school nutrition programs, food stamps, rural economic development, renewable energy, and agricultural research. It also limited subsidies to family farmers by prohibiting payments to large corporate farmers with incomes above $1 million. DeFazio also noted that the Farm Bill addresses several issues of long-standing interest. "I have been greatly concerned about the recent food safety scares involving foods imported from China and elsewhere that sickened many across this country. This requires country of origin labeling for beef, pork, lamb and goat meat, to help consumers make smart food choices," he explained. "In addition, this legislation expands renewable fuel production needed to promote American energy independence and protect our environment." Rep. DeFazio also voted for several amendments to the Farm Bill in an effort to further reform subsidies granted to farmers of corn, cotton and other traditional row crops. For example, DeFazio voted for an amendment offered by Rep. Kind (D-WI), Rep. Flake (R-AZ) and fellow Oregonian Rep. Blumenauer that would have reformed these subsidies while increasing funding for nutrition, conservation, organic and specialty crop programs. The amendment was supported by an unusual coalition of environmental groups and conservative think tanks. It would have provided more money to Oregon farmers than the final version of the bill. Unfortunately, that amendment failed by a vote of 309 to 117 The Senate must now act on the Farm Bill.
07.26.2007	July 25, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives approved $100,000 for the South Coast Interagency Narcotics Task Force (SCINT), $350,000 for Lane County Meth Abatement Initiative, and $100,000 for Lane County Adult Corrections Mental Health Recidivism Project. The funding, which was requested by DeFazio earlier this year, was included in the fiscal year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill was passed by a vote of 281-142. AMethamphetamine has devastated the lives of too many Oregonians and their families," DeFazio said. "Communities throughout Oregon and the U.S. will face untold costs in responding to the human, environmental and health consequences of this scourge for years to come. I'm pleased I was able to get funding for these important programs to help fight this growing epidemic." The South Coast Interagency Narcotics Team (SCINT) was formed in 1988. It is a multi-jurisdictional narcotics task force comprised of each city police department, county sheriff's office, district attorney's office and members of the Oregon State Police in Coos, Curry and Western Douglas Counties. SCINT allows these law enforcement agencies to be more effective and efficient in thwarting illegal drug trafficking by pooling their resources. The $100,000 in federal assistance will help the team continue to conduct aggressive methamphetamine investigations, gather intelligence and take enforcement actions to stop trafficking, distribution and use of methamphetamines along the south coast. The Lane County Methamphetamine Abatement Initiative is a public-private partnership designed to develop and provide comprehensive strategies for methamphetamine treatment, prevention, prosecution and environmental rehabilitation. Methamphetamine abuse is a widespread problem in Oregon. The state treats more people per capita for methamphetamine addiction than any other state in the country and is consistently ranked in the top 10 states nationally for meth lab seizures. Within Oregon, Lane County ranks second for meth seizures. In 2004, 2,062 Lane County adults and 160 youth entered treatment for methamphetamine addiction. This epidemic has had a tremendous economic impact on the county. The $350,000 included in the bill will help support the law enforcement and drug treatment components of this important program. The Lane County Adult Corrections Mental Health Recidivism program is intended to help adult offenders with low-level criminality and mental illness stay out of jail. The $100,000 in federal assistance will be used in conjunction with the existing defendant and offender management program, and specifically target inmates with diagnosable mental illnesses. The goal is to reduce the number of mentally ill people in the Lane County Jail and to keep the mentally ill from re-offending. The Senate must now take up the fiscal year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
07.24.2007	July 23, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today offered an amendment to prohibit the use of federal funds to implement the Administration's cross-border pilot program to allow Mexican-domiciled trucks into the U.S. The amendment was offered to the 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Act and was approved by a voice vote. "Mexican trucks pose a serious threat to the safety of our highways and the security of our country," DeFazio said. "This Administration is hell-bent on opening up our borders but they have failed to require that Mexican drivers and trucks meet the same safety and security standards as US drivers and trucks. That's simply unacceptable. This amendment will move us away from the Administration's current faith-based program to one based on the rule of law and regulation." Earlier this year, Secretary of Transportation Peters announced the Administration's intent to implement a one-year pilot program to allow up to 100 trucking companies from Mexico full access to U.S. highways. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) made clear that at the conclusion of the one-year pilot program, the US-Mexico border would be permanently open to Mexican trucks without any analysis of the impacts of the program. In May, the House voted overwhelmingly, 411-3, to pass H.R. 1773, the Safe American Roads Act of 2007, legislation which would extend the pilot program to three years and ensure that DOT establishes a process to analyze the impact of allowing Mexican trucks on our nation's roadways, before the border is completely opened. Provisions were also included in the FY 2007 Iraq War Supplemental spending bill to impose strict measures to ensure that the pilot program adheres to safety and security guidelines and that its progress is assessed by an independent panel. Federal law states that the Administration cannot jeopardize or degrade the safety of the American public by circumventing truck safety standards or congressional oversight in implementing this pilot program. Congress enacted these provisions after growing frustration with the Administration's clear desire to open the border at any cost, without regard for the safety of the traveling public. DeFazio's amendment is intended to slow down the process to ensure that the DOT places a priority on ensuring the safety and security of our nation's roadways before they give Mexican trucks unfettered access to our highways. The pilot program does not ensure that Mexican trucking companies meet U.S. safety standards such as regulating hours of service, vehicle safety, driver training and licensing, and drug testing. Mexican drivers are often forced to drive up to 72 hours at a time and freely admit that they have to take drugs in order to do it.
07.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC (18 July 2007) - Campaigning took on a whole new meaning during June as five House Members squared off, not over control of the House, but over collecting old sneakers. Participating in Nike and the National Recycling Coalition's Capitol Hill Reuse-A-Shoe Challenge, the Oregon House delegation competed to collect as many worn-out athletic shoes as possible. These shoes will be recycled and turned into sports and play surfaces around the world. Congressman Peter DeFazio was this year's winner, with his office collecting a record number of nearly 689 pairs of sneakers. Congressman DeFazio received a donation in his name that will go to a nonprofit organization of his choice to help get kids more physically active. The runner-up this year was the office of Congressman Greg Walden, with 473 pairs of shoes. "Reuse-A-Shoe connects our long-term commitments of developing innovative ways of eliminating waste and promoting the physical activity of young people," said Orson Porter, Deputy Director of Government Relations, Nike. "Capitol Hill has proven to be an excellent partner in our efforts to create new places for kids to play and be active. We thank the Oregon delegation for leading this effort." "I'm proud that the 4th congressional district has regained its title in this year's Reuse-a-Shoe Challenge," DeFazio said. "It's tough work collecting, sorting and boxing ripe, well-used shoes in the heat of summer, but the staff and the community just ran with it. We hope to have the office aired out soon." "I want to thank Nike and the National Recycling Coalition for organizing the Reuse-a-Shoe Challenge," DeFazio continued. "This program is a great example of where the rubber meets the road in promoting both physical fitness and recycling. Nike will process the shoes into Nike Grind which will be used to create high-quality sport surfaces of many different kinds. Nike will donate athletic equipment to encourage kids in the 4th Congressional District to be physically active." The drive brought out the full participation from all members of the Oregon House Delegation with Rep. Peter DeFazio, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Rep. Darlene Hooley, Rep. Greg Walden and Rep. David Wu breaking last year's record, collecting over 1,300 pairs of shoes this year. Congressional offices employed grassroots tactics, offering cookies, doughnuts and cheers of support in recognition of shoe donations. "The National Recycling Coalition has collected nearly a quarter of a million shoes for Nike's Reuse-A-Shoe program - deriving enough Nike Grind material to create more than 20 tracks. Our partnership with Nike gives NRC members the opportunity to expand what can be collected through community recycling programs," said Kate Krebs, executive director of the National Recycling Coalition. "I'm proud to report that Reuse-A-Shoe collection sites are now located within 15 miles of 37 percent of the U.S. population." About National Recycling Coalition Founded in 1978, the National Recycling Coalition, Inc. (NRC) is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization representing all the diverse interests committed to the common goal of maximizing recycling to achieve the benefits of resource conservation, solid waste reduction, environmental protection, energy conservation, and social and economic development. Its 4,000 members include recycling and environmental organizations; large and small businesses; federal, state and local governments; and individuals. The NRC is dedicated to the advancement and improvement of recycling, and also source reduction, composting and reuse, by providing technical information, education, training, outreach and advocacy services to its members in order to conserve resources and benefit the environment. For additional information about the NRC, please visit www.nrc-recycle.org. About Nike Reuse-A-Shoe Reuse-A-Shoe is an integral part of Nike's community investment program called Let Me Play, which is helping to unleash young people's potential through sport. . Since the Reuse-A-Shoe program began in 1993, Nike has recycled more than 19 million pairs of athletic shoes and helped donate more than 250 sport surfaces to communities around the world. The surfaces use Nike Grind material as a component of the total surface composition, representing an approximate number of recycled shoes in each surface. Kids win because many of these sports surfaces are donated in communities where they wouldn't otherwise have access to high-performance sports surfaces. It's also a win for the environment, as thousands of pairs of athletic shoe material are diverted from landfills. For more information about Nike Reuse-A-Shoe, including a list of organizations participating in the Nike Reuse-A-Shoe program, visit - www.nikereuseashoe.com. NIKE, Inc. based in Beaverton, Oregon is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities.
07.17.2007	July 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced House approval of funding for dredging south coast ports and $1.250 million for a wave power project in Reedsport. The funding, requested by DeFazio earlier this year, was included in the fiscal year 2008 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill passed by a vote of 312-112. In addition to the dredging funding, the bill included $1,250,000 for a wave power demonstration project in Reedsport. As the first utility scale wave power project in the US, the Wave Power Demonstration Project at Reedsport, OR, would install a 2 MW power station 2.5 miles off the coast of Reedsport. Wave power is converted to electricity through a buoy in the water, using the rise and fall of waves to move the buoy up and down (mechanical stroking) which drives an electric generator. The federal funding will be leveraged with funding from private sources, regional utilities and potentially the State of Oregon. Included in the bill approved today is funding for dredging, maintenance and associated operations at the following ports: Port of Siuslaw: $739,000 Port of Umpqua: $2,218,000 Port of Coos Bay: $6,967,000 Port of Bandon: $275,000 Port of Port Orford: $333,000 Port of Gold Beach: $462,000 Port of Brookings Harbor: $443,000 In order to address additional needs at several South Coast ports, DeFazio was able to secure funding for the Port of Siuslaw, the Port of Coos Bay, and the Port of Umpqua at levels higher than requested by the President. "Despite the tight budget year, I am pleased I was able to secure funding for dredging operations at each of Oregon's south coast ports," DeFazio said. "I was even able to secure increases for a few ports, but funding still falls short of what is needed to adequately maintain safe and navigable channels at each of these ports. Dredging plays a crucial role in the economic livelihood of the region. I will work with my colleagues in the Senate to attempt to increase the funding for dredging operations on the Oregon coast." Oregon's coastal channels are heavily used by recreational boaters and commercial fisherman. The coastal channels have become the mainstays of communities dealing with declining employment in natural resource industries. The Senate must now take up the Energy and Water Appropriations bill.
07.17.2007	House-Senate conferees to work out differences on recommendations of 9/11 Commission July 16, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi today appointed U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) as a conferee on H.R. 1, legislation to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. DeFazio is a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, both committees have jurisdiction over H.R. 1. H.R. 1 was the first bill passed by the House this year after the Democrats took control of Congress. The bill would implement the recommendations of the 9/11 commission. The House passed H.R. 1 by a bipartisan vote of 299-128 in early January. The Senate passed its version of the bill (S. 4) by a vote of 60-38 in March. Several recent events indicate the need to strengthen our anti-terror efforts. Earlier today, the unclassified version of the new National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) was released which states that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network has been able to restore key capabilities it would need to launch an attack on U.S. soil. And last week several top U.S. intelligence officials testified before Congress that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network poses the most serious threat since 9/11. Both the House and Senate bills contain strong provisions to better protect America from terrorism, prevent terrorists from acquiring WMD, and authorize strategies for curbing the appeal of extremism around the world. The following provisions are some of the key provisions in the House-passed bill. · Improves the explosive screening of checked baggage at airports, by requiring the rapid installation of the latest in-line explosive detection systems at airports. · Expands the screening of cargo on passenger aircraft, by establishing a system for phasing in the inspection of 100% of cargo carried on passenger aircraft over the next three years. · Beefs up efforts to prevent the proliferation of WMD, including strengthening the Defense Department's Nunn-Lugar program, strengthening the Energy Department's Global Threat Reduction Initiative, and creating a Coordinator for the Prevention of WMD Proliferation, who would serve as a presidential advisor. · Cracks down on the transfer of nuclear technology, by requiring the President to impose sanctions on any person who trades nuclear enrichment technology to a non-nuclear weapons state. · Enhances communications interoperability for first responders, by establishing a stand-alone communications interoperability grant program. · Strengthens efforts to prevent terrorist travel, including by authorizing the hiring of additional experienced intelligence analysts who are specialists in the field of terrorist travel. · Improves intelligence and information sharing between state, local and federal law enforcement, by taking such steps as strengthening intelligence fusion centers and providing local law enforcement with a presence at the National Counter Terrorism Center. · Strengthens public diplomacy and other efforts to reduce the appeal of extremism, including beefing up U.S. educational, economic development and other aid programs overseas. Once the Conference Committee works out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the anti-terror legislation, both chambers will have to approve the final compromise bill before it goes to the President for his signature.
07.17.2007	July 16, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi today appointed U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) as a conferee on H.R. 1, legislation to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. DeFazio is a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, both committees have jurisdiction over H.R. 1. H.R. 1 was the first bill passed by the House this year after the Democrats took control of Congress. The bill would implement the recommendations of the 9/11 commission. The House passed H.R. 1 by a bipartisan vote of 299-128 in early January. The Senate passed its version of the bill (S. 4) by a vote of 60-38 in March. Several recent events indicate the need to strengthen our anti-terror efforts. Earlier today, the unclassified version of the new National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) was released which states that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network has been able to restore key capabilities it would need to launch an attack on U.S. soil. And last week several top U.S. intelligence officials testified before Congress that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network poses the most serious threat since 9/11. Both the House and Senate bills contain strong provisions to better protect America from terrorism, prevent terrorists from acquiring WMD, and authorize strategies for curbing the appeal of extremism around the world. The following provisions are some of the key provisions in the House-passed bill. · Improves the explosive screening of checked baggage at airports, by requiring the rapid installation of the latest in-line explosive detection systems at airports. · Expands the screening of cargo on passenger aircraft, by establishing a system for phasing in the inspection of 100% of cargo carried on passenger aircraft over the next three years. · Beefs up efforts to prevent the proliferation of WMD, including strengthening the Defense Department's Nunn-Lugar program, strengthening the Energy Department's Global Threat Reduction Initiative, and creating a Coordinator for the Prevention of WMD Proliferation, who would serve as a presidential advisor. · Cracks down on the transfer of nuclear technology, by requiring the President to impose sanctions on any person who trades nuclear enrichment technology to a non-nuclear weapons state. · Enhances communications interoperability for first responders, by establishing a stand-alone communications interoperability grant program. · Strengthens efforts to prevent terrorist travel, including by authorizing the hiring of additional experienced intelligence analysts who are specialists in the field of terrorist travel. · Improves intelligence and information sharing between state, local and federal law enforcement, by taking such steps as strengthening intelligence fusion centers and providing local law enforcement with a presence at the National Counter Terrorism Center. · Strengthens public diplomacy and other efforts to reduce the appeal of extremism, including beefing up U.S. educational, economic development and other aid programs overseas. Once the Conference Committee works out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the anti-terror legislation, both chambers will have to approve the final compromise bill before it goes to the President for his signature.
07.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC-Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today sent a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez requesting an investigation into potential voting irregularities in the recent Springfield Challenge, a contest to select a Springfield for the home of The Simpsons. The competition was conducted by 20th Century Fox. Thirteen towns named Springfield competed, and Springfield, Vermont was recently announced the winner. A copy of DeFazio's letter is below. July 13th, 2007 Alberto R. Gonzalez Attorney General Office of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy Building 950 Pennsylvania, N.W. Washington D.C. 20530-2000 Heidely Ho Attorney General Gonzales: I write to you to express the outrage that I, and all Oregonians, feel regarding a recent event. I know there is a strong possibility that you may come back and say that you "don't recall" to what I am referring, so let me refresh your memory. Recently, 20th Century Fox launched The Simpson's Movie Springfield Challenge where people could vote on the real-life location of the home of The Simpsons. Naturally, most Oregonians felt confident that we would win, since it is obvious to everyone that Simpson's creator Matt Groening, who was raised in Oregon, modeled Springfield after his childhood home. Oregon has over 363 miles of the most beautiful coastline in America, the Cascade Mountains, and is the grass seed capital of the world. What does Vermont have? Maple syrup. This travesty must not stand. Springfield, Vermont is a town of only nine thousand people; yet this community received over fifteen thousand votes. Unless they passed a law giving cows the right to vote, this smacks of election fraud. It also once again highlights the need for electronic voting with a valid paper trail. Was Diebold in any way involved in tabulating the results? Additionally, it's my understanding that Springfield, Vermont entered the competition after the deadline. That's clearly an election violation since they should not have been listed on the ballot in the first place. Some people will say that we were rolled by the giant pink doughnut, but I believe there were significant voting irregularities. Knowing how passionately the Bush Administration feels about counting every vote, I'm sure you will want to investigate this matter. Additionally, I urge you to petition the Supreme Court to review the facts and consider whether or not this election should be set aside. Given the Court's recent rulings on election proceedings, I'm sure they will be eager to review the case. I demand that you investigate this miscarriage of justice and restore Oregon as the definitive home of The Simpsons. Okiliydokily, PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress P.S. Also, to see proof beyond a shadow of a doubt where the real Simpsons are live, go to https://www.defazio.house.gov/sites/defazio.house.gov/files/migrated/images/zoom/LGKSWV/simpsonspad.jpg and see for yourself. Photos don't lie. P.P.S. Vote Quimby!
07.12.2007	July 27, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the House Appropriations Committee has approved $29,590,000 for Lane Transit District (LTD) Pioneer Parkway EmX Corridor and $250,000 for LTD's alternatives analysis for a third EmX Corridor. DeFazio requested funding for both projects. The funding was included in the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. $29,590,000 for Lane Transit District, Pioneer Parkway EmX Corridor EmX is the name given to LTD's bus rapid transit system. It is a rubber-tired system that uses exclusive transit lanes, signal priority, off-board fare collection, special vehicles, and other transit priority techniques to emulate light rail. The Pioneer Parkway EmX service will connect downtown Springfield with the rapidly developing Gateway/RiverBend area to the north. Pioneer Parkway will be the second EmX corridor in LTD's system. Planning for the corridor has proceeded through initial conceptual design development, and preliminary environmental screening and alternatives analysis. $250,000 for LTD's alternatives analysis for the Third EmX Corridor EmX is the name given to LTD's bus rapid transit system. The first EmX line, the Franklin EmX, is in service. Pioneer Parkway EmX, a Springfield extension of the Franklin EmX, is expected to be in service in 2010. The third EmX corridor, which is expected to serve West Eugene, could be in service in 2015. EmX planning in this corridor will be part of a broader study of possible transportation improvements for West Eugene. The Transportation Appropriations bill is expected to be considered by the full House of Representatives next week.
07.12.2007	July 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today announced that the House Appropriations Committee approved $150,000 for dock renovation at the Port of Gold Beach. DeFazio requested funding for the project. The funding was included in the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The Gold Beach High Dock is over 30 years old and has a steel base that is showing visible signs of deterioration. This has created an urgent need to renovate the structure and ensure its safety and utility in the future. Restoration and repair of the high dock is essential for the port to maintain the current fishing fleet and attract additional economic development. The funding will be used to assist the port in making much-needed improvements. The Transportation Appropriations bill is expected to be considered by the full House next week.
07.12.2007	July 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - Today the White House released a congressionally mandated report assessing progress in Iraq, or lack thereof, against 18 benchmarks established by Congress and signed into law by the President in late May 2007. To follow is Representative Peter DeFazio's statement on the report: "Although you have to carefully read between the lines of status quo, stay-the-course happy-talk in the administration's report to actually comprehend the reality in Iraq, the ultimate conclusion of the report is clear - the political progress and national reconciliation that are necessary to bring about stability in Iraq are non-existent," said DeFazio. "Our generals agree - there is no military solution to the violence in Iraq. If the Iraqi leaders do not want to make the political compromises necessary to live in peace, then no amount of U.S. firepower or fierce determination by our troops can create stability." "And while our troops remain bogged down in Iraq fighting two sides of a civil war as well as a handful of foreign terrorists, al-Qaeda's leaders continue to strengthen the organization and plan attacks against the United States from their safe haven along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border," DeFazio warned. "Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Democracy and stability cannot be imposed on unwilling parties. The U.S. needs to establish a timeline to bring our troops home soon. Being confronted with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal should force the Iraqi factions to reach the compromises necessary to move their country forward. If not, there is no reason to prolong the U.S. involvement in Iraq if we want a stable country more than the Iraqi people and their elected leaders do," DeFazio concluded.
07.12.2007	July 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC BRep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today introduced legislation to require drug companies to annually disclose the value, nature and purpose of any marketing or promotional gift over $50 given to health professionals. Under the bill, the information would be made available to the public on the Food and Drug Administration's web site. "Americans are being gouged by pharmaceutical companies that spend more on marketing than they do on research and development," said DeFazio. "They enjoy generous subsidies from the government, but have no accountability when it comes to the billions of dollars they spend promoting high priced drugs." A recent article in the New York Times detailed how two of the world's largest drug companies, Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, paid doctors hundreds of millions of dollars in return for giving their patients anemia medicines, which federal regulators now say may be unsafe at commonly used doses. "If the billions of dollars drug companies spend taking doctors on trips to the Caribbean and to expensive dinners at the country's finest restaurants are above-board, then the pharmaceutical industry should support my legislation," continued DeFazio. "There's a difference between educating doctors on the uses and effects of new drugs, and enticing healthcare professionals with lavish gifts. This bill will keep the pharmaceutical industry honest." DeFazio's legislation, the "Drug Company Gift Disclosure Act", amends the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act to require each pharmaceutical manufacturer, packer and distributor to disclose any marketing and promotional gift over $50 given to a health professional, including HMO pharmaceutical benefit managers. Under the bill, health professionals include physicians, nurses, hospitals, nursing homes, pharmacists, HMOs, or any other person authorized to prescribe or dispense drugs. The bill exempts free drug samples and scholarships for medical students.
07.11.2007	July 10, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that the House Appropriations committee approved legislation which included $100,000 for the Springfield School District's Academy of Arts and Academics. The funding was included in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. The Springfield Public Schools (SPS) Academy of Arts and Academics (A3) is a small, academically rigorous high school with an emphasis on the arts. A3’s curriculum blends rigorous academics with professional-level media, theater arts, and visual arts. The school uses arts-based projects that connect academic content and real-world issues, woven around core skills in math, science, and the humanities. Literacy is a centerpiece of the curriculum. Federal funding will enable the school to expand from its current enrollment of 90 9th- and 10th-graders to a rigorous arts-based small high school serving up to 250 9th- through 12th-grade students. The school targets traditionally underserved students. Early reports indicate retention levels that far surpass those of larger more traditional high schools. "Springfield's innovative efforts to reach underserved students with a school blending traditional academic content with the arts shows great promise to make a difference in the lives of many students," said DeFazio. "Federal support is critical to ensuring that this program can reach its full potential." The LHHS-ED spending bill will be considered on the House floor next week.
07.11.2007	July 10, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives today approved H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, legislation that would make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, helping millions of students and families pay for college – and doing so at no new cost to U.S. taxpayers. The bill passed by a vote of 273-149. Approximately 40,000 Oregon students take out need based student loans each year. The average Oregon college student accumulates $19,000 in college debt. This legislation will provide $194 million for Oregon students over the next 5 years and will save students almost $5,000 in interest on their loans. “Passage of this legislation is great news for Oregon students," DeFazio said. "Tuition and fees at four-year public colleges and universities have risen 41 percent in six years. We must ensure that a good education is within the grasp of every American. Reducing interest rates on subsidized student loans and increasing funding for Pell Grants will help reduce the financial barriers to a college education." Under H.R. 2669, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $500 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant would reach $4,900 in 2008 and $5,200 in 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006, thus restoring the Pell’s purchasing power. About 6 million low- and moderate-income students would benefit from this increase. The legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. About 6.8 million students take out need-based loans each year. The legislation would also prevent student borrowers from facing unmanageable levels of federal student debt by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments and by allowing borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 20 years. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; Loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions; Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; The Senate is expected to vote on similar legislation later this month.
07.11.2007	July 10, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) announced today that the House Appropriations Committee approved legislation which included $300,000 for equipment for the new Linn-Benton Community College Science Lab. The funding was included in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. The bill includes $300,000 to purchase new science lab equipment for Linn-Benton Community College. LBCC's science labs are 35 years old and have never been refurbished. They are in a constant state of use due to a steep increase in the number of health career and engineering preparation students. LBCC delivers significant lower division science instruction for Oregon State University transfer students as part of their dual enrollment program, but the labs are not consistent with the quality of modern day collegiate science labs. This funding will be used to buy new laboratory equipment for their new 20,000 square foot science and health building and renovated existing science labs. "I am pleased that that House Appropriations Committee recognized the importance of enhancing LBCC's ability to train the future health care providers and engineers our state and our country need," said DeFazio. The LHHS-ED spending bill will be considered on the House floor next week.
07.07.2007	July 6, 2007 WASHINGTON – During a meeting today with Rep. DeFazio and other coastal members, NOAA Fisheries Service Director Dr. Bill Hogarth announced that the $60.4 million in relief funds for fishermen, tribes and businesses affected by the salmon disaster will be distributed over the summer. During the meeting, Hogarth informed members that the funds will be distributed through the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission. Before receiving the funds, the Commission must submit a proposal to NOAA Fisheries on how the funds will be distributed. The Commission plan will be based on the proposals developed separately by the Oregon Salmon Commission and the California Salmon Council. Within each state, distribution to fishermen and others will be based solely on the plan approved by that state's salmon commission or council. After the Commission submits the final proposal to the federal government, which is expected to happen during the week of June 11th, NOAA Fisheries will take four to six weeks for review. Upon approval, the $60.4 million in funds will be released to the Commission for distribution to the fishermen, tribes and businesses. "This disaster aid cannot come too soon for many struggling fishing families, businesses and communities. It has been a long fight to get my colleagues in Congress and the President to approve this assistance. I will continue to work to ensure that this money ends up in the pockets of those who need it most as soon as possible," said DeFazio. The $60.4 million in disaster relief was passed by Congress and signed by the president at the end of May. The funding provision was based on a bill introduced by DeFazio and others in January. The salmon fisheries disaster was due to irresponsible federal management of the Klamath River, which caused 80,000 adult salmon to die in 2002. Since then, the salmon population has continued to deteriorate, forcing the Pacific Fisheries Management Council to sizably reduce the fishing seasons in 2005 and 2006. As a result, the commercial fishing season was cut by more than 90 percent last year, costing fishing families and associated fishing businesses more than $60 million.
06.26.2007	June 25, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced today that the House approved $500,000 to help construct a wastewater system for the City of Coburg. The funding was included in H.R. 2643, the Interior-Environment Appropriations funding bill for fiscal year 2008. The bill also includes $1.9 billion for wildland firefighting and $252 million. At the request of DeFazio the bill includes a $500,000 State and Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG) to help construct a wastewater system in the City of Coburg to protect and improve the region's groundwater. With more than 1,000 residents, Coburg is one of the few cities of its size in Oregon that still lacks a city wastewater system. The city currently operates on a septic system that is near capacity. In recent years, Coburg has successfully attracted several recreational vehicle manufacturers, but lack of a wastewater reclamation facility has hindered the community's ability to expand its economic development activities. The total cost of the project is estimated at $16 million. The city will borrow part of the funding and will receive additional funding from the State of Oregon and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Monthly fees for the average residence could exceed $100 a month. This grant funding will help offset those monthly fees. AI am pleased I was able to help secure this funding for Coburg's wastewater system," DeFazio said. "Water infrastructure and water quality are important to fortifying the long-term economic viability of our communities. This funding will help Coburg to build the necessary infrastructure that helps attract new businesses, create jobs and improve the economy." The bill also included $1.9 billion for wildfire management, which is an increase of $106 million over what the President requested. “After years of short changing public lands needs under the Bush Administration, the Democratic House voted to restore critical funding for rural communities," DeFazio explained. “I am pleased that we are finally providing real funding for important issues such as hazardous fuels reduction, wildland fire management, and our national parks.” DeFazio also supported an amendment that increased funding for the payments-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILT) program by $20 million, for a total of $252 million. “Increased PILT payments will help the counties in southwest Oregon provide such services as search and rescue, law enforcement, health services, and libraries.”
06.15.2007	June 14, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC— Today, U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) voted in favor of H.R. 2642, the fiscal year 2008 spending bill for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and military construction projects. This legislation provides the largest increase in funding for veterans' health care in the VA's 77-year history. Importantly, unlike the President's budget, which proposed doubling the prescription drug co-payment for veterans and imposing an annual enrollment fee of up to $750, this increased funding will not shift costs for services onto the backs of veterans. "With this bill, the Democratic-led Congress is making an unprecedented commitment to those who serve our country in the military," said DeFazio. "The federal government must do more than provide rhetorical support for our troops. This bill provides the actual dollars necessary to improve the delivery of health care services, meet the increasingly complex health care needs of veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and reduce the disgraceful massive backlog of disability claims." H.R. 2642 includes $43.2 billion for the VA, $3.8 billion above the President's request and $6.7 billion above the 2007 level. This funding will improve the delivery of health care services to veterans, add over 1,000 new claims processors to reduce the backlog of 400,000 disability claims, and fund new initiatives to better address post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), mental health needs, polytraumas, and substance abuse among veterans. This funding includes: $28.9 billion for veterans' medical services, $1.7 billion above the President's request and $3.4 billion above the 2007 level; $600 million to establish five Level I Polytrauma Centers and three Centers of Excellence for Mental Health and PTSD to improve the delivery of health care services to veterans, particularly those with multiple injuries and mental health problems; $2.9 billion for specialty mental health care, equal to the President's request and $100 million over the 2007 level; $4.1 billion for VA medical facilities, $508 million above the President's request and $530 million above the 2007 level to address ongoing maintenance and renovation needs (the Department estimates a maintenance backlog of over $5 billion); $480 million for VA medical and prosthetic research, $69 million above the President's request and $66 million above the 2007 level; $429 million for the VA substance abuse program, $70 million above the President's request and $72 million above the 2007 amount; $130 million to assist homeless veterans, $23 million above the President's request and $38 million over the 2007 level; "At a time when millions of Americans are rotating in and out of combat zones, often multiple times, it is even more important that Congress fulfill the government's promises to veterans. After all, how we treat our veterans today will play a large role in whether enough Americans will volunteer to protect and defend our country in the future. I am proud of the service of our men and women in the military, and I am pleased that Congress is finally stepping up with the funding levels necessary to fully honor that commitment," continued DeFazio.
06.07.2007	June 7, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-The House Natural Resources Committee approved an amendment offered by Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) that would allow for increased removal of biomass from overstocked federal forests. Biomass, made from small trees and brush, can be converted into fuel and help decrease the country's dependence on foreign oil. The amendment was approved as part of H.R. 2337, the Energy Policy Reform and Revitalization Act of 2007, legislation to promote alternative energy, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation. As introduced, H.R. 2337 would have precluded biomass removal from millions of acres of federal forest land in the Pacific Northwest. However, scientists agree that careful forest management of these areas can be beneficial, provided that the old growth forest structure is maintained, and other ecological considerations are met. An estimated 5 jobs are created for every megawatt of energy produced from biomass. "Things are different in my district," DeFazio explained. "There are many areas of old growth forest where small trees have grown up into the old growth canopy as a result of fire suppression and previous management. My amendment would protect old growth trees, but also allow biomass removal to protect the remaining old growth characteristics in our forests." Congressman DeFazio supported the remainder of the biomass provisions in H.R. 2337, which would establish pilot projects to stimulate biomass utilization on federal lands. "Biomass utilization is an important component of energy independence," he said. "There are many innovative companies that are actively developing new biomass technology. This provision and my amendment will ensure that we take an environmentally sensitive and yet active approach towards stewardship of our federal forest lands and biomass development." DeFazio also worked with Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA) to change the wind provisions in the bill to better protect this growing clean, renewable energy resource. As introduced, H.R. 2337 would have imposed new federal mandates for the siting and operation of wind projects. Currently, wind projects are sited by state and local officials. In Oregon, such officials are also responsible for monitoring and mitigating the impact of wind turbines on wildlife. DeFazio warned that the proposed federal mandates would stifle wind power development at a time when we should be promoting investment in this clean, renewable energy source. The amendment worked out by DeFazio, Markey and Chairman Rahall replaced the federal regulatory control provisions with an advisory committee that would make recommendations to Congress and the Secretary of the Interior on how to improve the siting, operation, and monitoring of wind projects in order to minimize the impact on wildlife. The amendment also authorizes $2 million a year for additional research into minimizing wildlife impacts from wind projects. "Wind power is growing in importance in the Northwest both as a non-polluting energy resource as well as an economic development driver. The original bill would have been devastating to wind energy. I am pleased we were able to better protect the ability of our region to develop much-needed wind projects while protecting wildlife," said DeFazio.
05.24.2007	May 23, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) voted against the most recent version of the supplemental spending bill for the war in Iraq because, unlike earlier versions considered in the House this year, today's bill negotiated with the White House included no enforceable benchmarks for the Iraqi government and abandoned binding timelines for redeploying U.S. troops out of Iraq. "The Iraqi people have repeatedly indicated their support for a U.S. withdrawal. A majority of the American people want U.S. troops to come home. And the Iraqi parliament is reportedly weighing a resolution calling for a timeline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It seems that only the President, his allies in Congress, and the leaders of Iran want the U.S. to remain mired in the civil war in Iraq, which is sapping our military and diplomatic strength," DeFazio warned. DeFazio continued, "The president and his allies justify the continuing U.S. presence in Iraq by trotting out the tired phrase that if we don't fight there, we'll have to fight here at home. However, the Iraqi Sunnis and Shias, who combined make up the vast bulk of the insurgents and militias committing violence in Iraq, just want U.S. military forces out of their own country. They have no capability to attack Americans here at home." "It is also misleading to say that if the U.S. leaves, Osama bin Laden will take control and have a safe haven in Iraq. There is no chance that the Shia and the Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of Iraq's population, will allow foreign terrorist elements to take control of the country. Even the majority of Sunnis have grown tired of foreign terrorists operating in Iraq and are fighting back," DeFazio concluded. The Senate will now consider the final version of H.R. 2206. It is expected that the bill will be sent to the President for his signature by the end of this week.
05.23.2007	May 22, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today voted in favor five different bills to expand and improve benefits available to veterans. "As we prepare to celebrate Memorial Day and honor those who have selflessly served our country in uniform in the past as well as those serving today, I am pleased that the House is taking critical steps to improve and expand the health care services available to veterans," said DeFazio. "How we treat those who have served and are serving will directly impact our ability to find volunteers to protect our country in the future. Too often only lip service is paid to supporting our troops. The legislation approved today will provide real benefits for our troops and veterans and help ensure they receive the benefits and resources they have earned and deserve when they come home." The bills approved include: H.R. 67, the Veterans Outreach Improvement Act, legislation to establish a grant program for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide money to states for outreach activities to veterans and their families about benefits and programs for which they are eligible and to help veterans apply for such benefits and programs. H.R. 2199, the Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support Act, legislation to establish new research centers for TBI across the country, a screening program for veterans for TBI, a comprehensive program of long-term care for TBI rehabilitation, a TBI Veterans Health Registry, and a pilot program of mobile VA centers to improve access to veterans' readjustment benefits and mental health services in rural areas. These mobile centers would also help veterans file disability claims. H.R. 612, the Returning Servicemember VA Health Care Insurance Act, legislation to extend from two years to five years following discharge for a veteran who served in combat during or after the Persian Gulf War to access care through the VA. It also provides three additional years of eligibility for veterans discharged more than five years before the enactment of this bill and who had not been previously enrolled in the VA. This legislation is necessary to allow those with injuries, such as post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury, which might not be readily apparent until years after discharge, from getting treatment for these injuries through the VA. H.R. 1470, legislation to expand chiropractic care to all veterans' medical centers over the next four years. H.R. 2239, the Early Access to Vocational Rehabilitation Benefits, legislation to extend eligibility for Voc Rehab benefits to current members of the Armed Forces who are hospitalized or are receiving outpatient medical care and have a disability that is likely to result in discharge. Currently, veterans are not eligible for such services until they have actually been discharged. In addition, earlier this year, the House of Representatives, with DeFazio's support, rejected the President's proposals to shift more of the cost for care onto the backs of veterans via higher co-payments and annual fees. For fiscal year 2007, Congress boosted funding for veterans programs $3.6 billion above the 2006 level. And in the budget just adopted by the House for fiscal year 2008, the Democratic leadership included $3.5 billion (9 percent) more for veterans' services than the President requested.
05.23.2007	May 22, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) today voted in favor of H.R. 1252, the Federal Price Gouging Prevention Act, legislation to prohibit price gouging for gasoline at the wholesale or retail level. DeFazio was an original cosponsor of H.R. 1252. The bill was approved 284-141. "While oil companies are enjoying record profits and executives are earning massive pay packages, Oregonians are suffering. Gas prices are skyrocketing despite the fact that crude oil prices are lower than this time last year and despite the fact there have been no major supply disruptions. The major oil companies have shut down hundreds of refineries over the last decade in order to restrict supplies and drive up prices. What Enron did to Californians, the oil companies are doing to consumers across the country, " said DeFazio. Under the bill, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) can seek civil penalties of up to three times the amount of profits or $3 million for charging unconscionable prices, and up to $1 million for providing false information to federal agencies. The bill prioritizes enforcement actions against large oil companies with annual sales of $500 million or more. This legislation is necessary because currently, gouging is only illegal if there's collusion between two or more entities, which is notoriously hard to prove. In addition, yesterday, DeFazio supported legislation authorizing the Department of Justice to bring a case against OPEC for violating U.S. anti-trust laws. The bill was approved 345-72. Finally, earlier this year, DeFazio re-introduced his own gas price stabilization legislation, H.R. 1500, which provides both short and long-term strategies to protect consumers and reduce our nation's reliance on oil. The bill: 1. Requires the President to file a trade complaint with the WTO against OPEC for illegally colluding to raise oil prices, which violates global trade rules. 2. Imposes a windfall profits tax on oil companies to decrease the incentive to gouge consumers 3. Authorizes the use of the strategic petroleum reserve (a federal reserve of 700 million barrels of oil), as needed, to combat market manipulation and supply problems. Releasing oil from the federal stockpile will help ensure that supply disruptions (whether artificial or real) don't lead to price spikes 4. Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to establish minimum inventory levels for producers, refiners, and marketers of crude oil and petroleum products in order to limit the impact unexpected supply disruptions have on prices. 5. Reinstates the ban on exporting oil from Alaska. 6. Puts a moratorium on oil company mergers (the non-partisan General Accounting Office reported 2,600 mergers in the U.S. petroleum industry since the mid-1990s - by one measure, four companies control 74 percent of the gasoline market in Oregon). It also creates a commission to investigate the impact mergers are having on prices and to make recommendations to restore competition in the petroleum industry. 7. Establishes a commission to study and report on the concentration of ownership of all aspects of exploring, refining, distributing and selling crude oil and petroleum products. 8. Mandates the average fuel economy standards to be increased to 37 mpg by 2017 and 40 mpg by 2022. 9. Requires the federal fleet of vehicles achieve an average fuel economy that is higher than the baseline average. The federal fleet would have to achieve a fuel economy of 3 miles per gallon higher than the average by 2010, and 6 miles per gallon higher than the average by 2013.
05.18.2007	May 17, 2007 EUGENE, OR—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce that Lane Transit District's (LTD) Pioneer Parkway Emerald Express (EmX) BRT will receive $14.8 million in fiscal year 2007, one year earlier than expected. The Department of Transportation (DOT) approved the funding today for the LTD project through a new “Small Starts” program. The Small Starts program, a new transit program, was created in the 2005 highway and transit reauthorization bill, SAFETEA-LU to help level the playing field for transit projects in smaller communities. DeFazio and several other representatives worked to establish the Small Starts Program, and the Pioneer Parkway EmX extension is one of the first projects funded through the program. "The Pioneer Parkway EmX extension, which will link downtown Springfield with the RiverBend Hospital and the Gateway area, will be a great addition to the newly opened Franklin line connecting downtown Eugene and Springfield," DeFazio said. "I am proud that it's the first project approved for the Small Starts program, which I helped create. EmX represents the type of project Small Starts was created to fund—a meaningful, yet affordable transit project that works for a smaller community."Springfield Mayor Sid Leiken commented, “The EmX Pioneer Parkway extension will improve transportation options to Gateway area of Springfield, providing better access to our major employment centers. This is yet another example of government partnerships delivering for our citizens.”The project is expected to cost $36.99 million. The extension will serve an anticipated 3,700 daily passengers when it is scheduled to open in 2010.
05.17.2007	May 16, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) today voted in favor of H.R. 1585, the fiscal year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act. The authorization bill sets Pentagon personnel and weapons policies for next year and provides guidance to congressional appropriators on funding levels for a variety of procurement, research and development programs. "The Bush administration has allowed our military forces to become over-stretched and under-equipped, which harms our national security and puts individual troops at risk," said DeFazio. "This legislation will begin to the reverse the hollowing out of our forces that has happened on the President's watch." H.R. 1585 includes several provisions to improve benefits for our troops and military retirees: A 3.5% across-the-board pay raise, higher than proposed by the President, plus additional money for targeted bonuses; Prohibits the TRICARE military health care and pharmacy fee increases proposed by the President that would have shifted $1.86 billion in health care costs onto the backs of service members and their families; Responds to the problems found at Walter Reed and other facilities by incorporating the provisions of the Wounded Warriors bill. The Wounded Warriors bill cuts bureaucratic red tape; improves the transition of service members from the DOD to the VA; creates a new system of case managers, advocates and counselors for wounded service members to monitor progress, track cases and ensure proper care; and establishes a toll-free hotline for service personnel and family members to report problems with care of facilities, among other provisions; Establishes a Traumatic Brain Injury Initiative to improve prevention, identification and treatment of this growing injury associated with the war in Iraq; Authorizes an increase in the size of the Army by 36,000, Marines by 9,000, and the Army National Guard by 1,300 in order to reduce the stress on existing forces. H.R. 1585 also includes funding guidelines for critical equipment and programs: $4.1 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) armored vehicles, $1.55 billion more than requested by the President; $1.2 billion for individual body armor; $2.5 billion for up-armored Humvees; $4.5 billion to fund efforts to jam and protect against roadside bombs; $13.6 billion to fully address equipment repair and replacement needs for the Army and $8.2 billion to reset equipment for Marines; $1 billion for National Guard equipment shortfalls; Increases funding for nuclear non-proliferation programs at both the Department of Energy and the Department of Defense; And the bill reduces funding for questionable administration priorities: Reduces overall funding for national missile defense by $764.2 million and blocks construction of a third missile defense site in Eastern Europe. Reduces funding for the Reliable Replacement Warhead (RRW) program by $45 million (nearly 40%), the administration's initiative to create a new nuclear weapon
05.17.2007	May 16, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon) today voted in favor of S.Con.Res. 21, the federal budget resolution for fiscal year 2008. The budget was approved by the House 214-209. "For six years, the President and his allies in Congress put our country on the path to bankruptcy. The borrow-and-spend policies of the President and Republicans in Congress led to record federal debt and put our nation in hock to foreign investors. The budget adopted today will begin the difficult and slow process of reversing the damage caused by the fiscal irresponsibility of the last six years," said DeFazio. DeFazio continued, "This budget reflects the priorities of the American people. It is fiscally responsible and will restore the budget to balance in just five years. It protects working families from tax increases and makes the tough choices necessary to be able to afford to boost investments in critical areas like education, children's health care, and fulfilling our promises to veterans." The budget sets a cap on overall discretionary spending of $954.1 billion, two percent more than the President proposed. Despite the additional spending for veterans, education, health care and similar priorities, the federal budget will achieve balanced by 2012. The budget protects middle-class tax cuts including the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and the new, lower 10% tax bracket. It also protects middle-income taxpayers from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). The budget provides for the President's request of $503.8 billion for the Pentagon in FY08 and rejects the President's proposal to impose new health care and prescription drug fees on active duty troops and military retirees. The budget increases funding for veterans' programs by $3.5 billion (9%) more than the President proposed and rejects the President's proposal to impose new enrollment fees and co-pays on veterans. The budget specifically rejects the significant cuts in education programs, job training programs and the Community Services Block Grant and the Social Services Block Grant proposed by the President. The budget increases funding for education, job training, and social service programs by $7.5 billion (10%) above the levels proposed by the President. The budget sets aside $50 billion to expand coverage under the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). And, importantly, the budget begins the process of restoring fiscal responsibility by re-instating pay-as-you-go rules. PAYGO rules require that any tax cuts or mandatory spending increases by offset by tax increases or spending cuts elsewhere in the budget so the budget deficit does not increase.
05.16.2007	May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today offered an amendment to H.R. 1585, the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense Authorization Bill, to prohibit the President from going to war with Iran without Congressional authorization. The DeFazio amendment clarifies that no previously enacted law authorizes military action against Iran. It also prohibits funding authorized by the bill or in any other act from being used to take military action against Iran without specific authorization from Congress unless there is a "national emergency created by an attack by Iran upon the United States, its territories or possessions or its armed forces." The amendment was defeated by a vote of 136-288. "The Constitution very clearly gives the authority to declare war to Congress, not the President," said DeFazio. "Unfortunately, the President believes otherwise. My amendment was simply about whether or not Congress will stand up and defend the war powers granted to this body in the Constitution by our nation's founders. With the defeat of my amendment, Congress has undermined the Constitution and endorsed a policy of unchecked executive power to wage war. That is a very, very dangerous result." "The march to war with Iran is disturbingly similar to the march to war with Iraq," DeFazio continued, "Regretably, Congress seems not to have learned any lessons from that prior failure. Congress had a chance today to stand up for the Constitution, to stand up for an overburdened military, and to stand up on behalf of the millions of Americans concerned about the looming possibility of a third war. Congress failed." Background Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution grants Congress the power “to declare war”, and to lay and collect taxes “to provide for the common defense,” “to raise and support armies,” to provide and maintain a navy,” “to make rules for the regulation for the land and naval forces,” to “provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions,” and to “provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia." The Constitution also gives Congress the power of the purse, “No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law.” By contrast, the sole war power granted to the Executive Branch can be found in Article II, Section 2, which states, “The President shall be the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into actual service of the United States…” The founders intended this power to allow the President “to repel sudden attacks,” not to launch offensive military actions in foreign countries without a vote in Congress. James Madison wrote, “In no part of the constitution is more wisdom to be found, than in the clause which confides the question of war or peace to the legislative, and not to the executive department.”
05.10.2007	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) is pleased to announce today that a one-year reauthorization of the vital county payments program has been included in the Agriculture Disaster Assistance and Western States Emergency Supplemental spending bill. The bill was approved by an overwhelming vote of 302-120. "For the second time in three weeks, the House has demonstrated its determination to provide emergency assistance to rural communities by continuing the Secure Rural Schools Act, this time by separating this critical funding from the continuing controversy around the Iraq war funding," DeFazio said. The House approved a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program in the Emergency Supplement funding bill for Iraq war a few weeks ago. The President vetoed that bill primarily due to concerns about conditions placed on the Iraq war funding. In response, the House leadership decided to put the county payments funding - along with assistance for agriculture, coastal Oregon and California salmon fishermen and fishing communities hurt by the virtual shut-down of last year's fishing season, and wildfire suppression - in a separate emergency supplemental funding bill and separate it from the ongoing controversy surrounding funding for the Iraq war. Unfortunately, earlier today, the White House announced that the President intends to veto the Agriculture Disaster Assistance and Western States Emergency Supplemental spending bill because expiration of county payments "does not meet any reasonable definition of emergency." "President Bush lives a sheltered life. He travels around the world in a jumbo jet and is surrounded by secret service day and night at taxpayer expense. For him to say to the tens of thousands of Oregonians and others who have, or on the verge of, losing jobs, and vital services like law enforcement and health care as well as educational opportunities for their children, that's not an emergency, shows how out of touch he is with the needs of average citizens," DeFazio said. "The Secure Rural Schools Act expired on President Bush's watch with a Republican controlled Congress. Despite his veto threats, the Democrats are attempting to ensure that rural communities don't have to undergo devastating cuts in services in July." Last year, the county payments program provided nearly $280 million to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. The President also threatened to veto the bill because of the aid for Oregon and California salmon fishermen and fishing communities. He called the aid "unwarranted." "Many fishing families and their local communities have been financially devastated by last year's virtual closure of the coastal salmon fishing season. The President's administration declared a disaster, but now he refuses to support the actual dollars needed to aid these individuals. These families and communities cannot put food on the table and pay bills with the President's rhetoric. They need actual dollars. It is unconscionable that the President would threaten to veto financial aid for salmon fishermen and their local communities for a disaster that he long ago acknowledged," said DeFazio.
05.10.2007	May 9, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted in favor of H.R. 1873, the Small Business Fairness in Contracting Act. The bill was approved 409-13. "Small businesses are the backbone of the Oregon economy and our national economy. They are the primary drivers of job creation, innovation, and economic growth. Expanding federal contracting opportunities for small businesses is a huge win for main street businesses that create jobs here at home and have roots in local communities," said DeFazio. H.R. 1873 makes several changes to federal contacting procedures to benefit small businesses. The bill will: (1) Increase the government-wide small business procurement goal to 30% from the current level of 23%; (2) Require each federal agency to submit to the Small Business Administration (SBA) and Congress a detailed plan for meeting this contracting goal; (3) Extend small business contracting goals to overseas contracts; (4) Limit the ability of federal agencies to bundle several small projects into a single contract too large for a small business to win; (5) Improve SBA outreach to ensure small businesses registered to do bushiness with the federal government are notified about contracting opportunities; (6) Improve SBA oversight to ensure that larger companies are not qualifying as small businesses and taking away contracting opportunities for truly small businesses; and (7) Create a 5% procurement goal for the federal government to contract with environmentally friendly ("green") small businesses. "Small businesses fuel big ideas. Some of America's largest companies were originally started in the garage of an entrepreneur. I am committed to supporting federal policies that promote the establishment and growth of small businesses," continued DeFazio. The federal government spent more than $400 billion on goods and services through over 8 million contracts in 2006, of which small businesses were awarded about $80 billion (22%).
05.10.2007	May 9, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted in favor of two important bills that would move our country closer to bringing our troops home from policing the civil war in Iraq and refocus our military and intelligence resources on the real threat to our national security: al-Qaeda. The first bill, H.R. 2237, would require the redeployment of U.S. troops and defense contractors out of Iraq beginning within 90 days of enactment and to be completed within 180 days. These forces, or a portion thereof, could then be redirected to Afghanistan to finish off the resurgent al-Qaeda fighters and to pursue the al-Qaeda leadership along the Afghan-Pakistan border. Unfortunately, this bill was defeated 171-255. "Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. They won the war. They defeated Saddam Hussein and his allies. There is no threat from weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. There is no reason for our troops to continue to be stuck in the middle of a civil war in Iraq in which they are under attack by two sides of the three-sided civil war. It is time for our troops to come home with the honor they have earned, a goal I will continue working to achieve," said DeFazio. The second bill, H.R. 2206, provides the President with funding to continue the war only through July 2007. It then requires the President to report by July 13, 2007 on progress (or lack thereof) on achieving a variety of specific benchmarks and goals in Iraq. After receiving the report, the House would be guaranteed two additional votes in July on whether or not to redeploy U.S. troops out of Iraq. The first vote would be on an amendment to require the redeployment of U.S. troops to begin within six months. The second vote would be on whether or not to release additional money to fund the war through September 2007. H.R. 2206 was approved 221-205. "Congress is sending the important message that the President's open-ended, stay-the-course, status quo policy in Iraq will not continue. Being confronted with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal should force Iraqi factions to reach the political compromises necessary to move their country forward and begin to end the mindless sectarian strife," DeFazio said. "If not, there is no reason to prolong the U.S. involvement in Iraq if we want a stable country more than the Iraqi people and their elected leaders do." "The Iraqi people have repeatedly indicated their support for a U.S. withdrawal. A majority of the American people want U.S. troops to leave. And the Iraqi parliament is reportedly weighing a resolution calling for a timeline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It seems that only the President, his allies in Congress, and the leaders of al-Qaeda and Iran want the U.S. to remain mired in the civil war in Iraq, which is sapping our military and diplomatic strength," DeFazio warned. DeFazio continued, "The president and his allies justify the continuing U.S. presence in Iraq by trotting out the tired phrase that if we don't fight there, we'll have to fight here at home. However, the Iraqi Sunnis and Shias, who combined make up the vast bulk of the insurgents and militias committing violence in Iraq, just want U.S. military forces out of their own country. They have no capability to attack Americans here at home." "It is also misleading to say that if the U.S. leaves, Osama bin Laden will take control and have a safe haven in Iraq. There is no chance that the Shia and the Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of Iraq's population, will allow foreign terrorist elements to take control of the country. Even the majority of Sunnis have grown tired of foreign terrorists operating in Iraq and are fighting back," DeFazio concluded. The Senate will now consider its version of H.R. 2206. And then the House and Senate will negotiate a final version of the bill to be sent to the President for his signature into law or veto.
04.24.2007	April 24, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted in favor of the conference report on H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007. "For the first time in more than four years, Congress is exercising its constitutional responsibilities over issues of war and peace and challenging the President's stay-the-course, open-ended military commitment to Iraq," said DeFazio. "This bill will begin the long overdue redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq and refocus our military and intelligence resources where they belong: on al-Qaeda and other international terrorist threats, not policing a civil war in Iraq." H.R. 1591 includes a number of benchmarks the Iraqi government must achieve. If the Iraqi government fails to make progress on several issues originally identified by President Bush in a January speech such as disarming sectarian militias, delivering requested security forces, and moving toward political reconciliation among Sunni, Shias and Kurds, then U.S. troops would be required to begin withdrawing on July 1, 2007. If the President certifies that progress is being made on these issues by July 1st, then the withdrawal of U.S. troops would not be required to begin until October 1, 2007 with the goal of completing the withdrawal by March 31, 2008. "The President has always set timelines for political developments in Iraq - for holding elections, for the drafting of the constitution - with the reasoning that timelines were necessary to get Iraqi political leaders to make the compromises necessary to move their country forward. The same leverage should be used on the military side," DeFazio argued. "Being confronted with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal should force Iraqi factions to reach the political compromises necessary to move their country forward and begin to end the mindless sectarian strife," DeFazio continued. "If not, there is no reason to prolong the U.S. involvement in Iraq if we want a stable country more than the Iraqi people and their elected leaders do." H.R. 1591 includes $95.5 billion for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, including $3 billion to deploy the latest in mine-resistant vehicles; More than $5 billion to ensure returning troops and veterans receive the timely and comprehensive health care services they have earned, including improved identification and treatment of mental health problems and brain injuries; $2.25 billion to address long-standing gaps in aviation, border, port and transit security; $425 million to extend for one year payments under the Secure Rural Schools program; $60.4 million in disaster aid for salmon fisherman impacted by the virtual closure of salmon fishing off the coasts of Oregon and California last year; and, $6.9 billion to continue to assist victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. "Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. They won the war. They defeated Saddam Hussein and his military. There is no threat from weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. There is no reason for our troops to continue to be stuck in the middle of a civil war in Iraq in which they are under attack by two sides of the three-sided civil war. It is time for our troops to come home with the honor they have earned." The bill was approved 218-208. The Senate is expected to vote on the bill Thursday. It will then be sent to the President for his signature or veto.
04.22.2007	April 22, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today commented on the release of the annual Social Security and Medicare Trustees report, which found that Social Security will be able to pay full benefits to American workers for at least the next 34 years with no changes whatsoever. Following is DeFazio’s statement: “Where’s the crisis? The report released today shows that Social Security will be able to pay 100 percent of promised benefits until at least 2041. And after that date, Social Security will still be able to cover 75 percent of promised benefits without any changes whatsoever. Covering that 25 percent gap is a manageable challenge, and with a few modest changes to the system, we can maintain Social Security on sound footing for the next seven decades and beyond. I have a plan to do just that that I will reintroduce later this year. “It is also important to note that the president’s so-called ‘solution’ to this issue is privatizing Social Security, which actually makes the program’s financial situation worse, not better, and puts at-risk the one guaranteed retirement plan on which all American families can rely. “But most importantly we have to put the projections in this report into perspective. It is difficult to project with any real accuracy, what will happen 75 years from now. Yet that is exactly what the Trustees are asked to do. These projections should be taken for what they are: educated guesses. If the actuaries' 75 year projections on wages, economic growth, inflation, life expectancy, birth rates or any other of the many economic and demographic projections they make, then the long-term financial status of Social Security could be even better. There is no reason to radically overhaul Social Security as the President has proposed based on today's projections. DeFazio has prepared a plan to protect and stabilize Social Security. The three main highlights of the DeFazio plan are 1) lifting the cap on wages subject to the Social Security payroll tax (currently at $97,500) so millionaires would pay the same percentage of their salary to Social Security as the average American worker; 2) providing an exemption from the payroll tax on the first $4,000 of wages, so everyone earning less than $101,500 a year would receive a tax cut; and 3) investing, in aggregate, a portion of the trust fund in diversified stocks.
04.19.2007	April 19, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representative Peter DeFazio voted in favor of legislation to require publicly held companies to allow shareholders to vote on whether a CEO pay package is justified. The bill, H.R. 1257, the Shareholder Vote on Executive Compensation Act, was approved 269-134. DeFazio was also an original cosponsor of the bill. The pay of top executives has been skyrocketing while the pay for average workers has largely been stagnant. In 2005, median CEO compensation was $13.51 million, up 16 percent from 2004 and following increases of 30 percent in 2003, 15 percent in 2002 and 9.5 percent in 2001. The ratio of CEO pay to average worker pay was 411:1 in 2005, nearly 10 times as large as the 1980 ratio of 42:1. The ratio in 1965 was 24:1 ratio. Average executive compensation has gone up almost 300 percent since 1990, after adjusting for inflation. The average worker has seen only a 5 percent increase the same period. Minimum wage workers have seen their pay drop 9 percent in real terms since 1990. "At a time when most families struggle just to get from paycheck to paycheck, corporate executives and corporate boards have scratched each others backs in a never-ending cycle of multi-million dollar pay increases for the top brass," said DeFazio. "Even worse, these pay packages have often been divorced from performance, with executives who run their companies into the ground and get their walking papers being showered with tens or hundreds of millions of dollars to cushion the blow." H.R. 1257 requires public companies to ensure that shareholders have an annual non-binding advisory vote on their company's executive compensation plans. It also requires an additional non-binding advisory vote if the company awards a new golden parachute package to an executive while simultaneously negotiating the purchase or sale of the company. "Corporations are owned by the stockholders. They should not be the private piggy banks of executives or corporate board members. This legislation will begin to shift the power out of corporate board rooms and back into the hands of the shareholders who own the company," DeFazio continued. CEO pay has also risen faster than the stock market and corporate profits. Since 1990, the S&P 500 is up 261 percent and corporate profits are up 106 percent. In 1993, the aggregate compensation paid to the top 5 executives of U.S. public companies represented 5 percent of company profits, by 2003, the ratio had more than doubled to 10 percent.
03.29.2007	March 29, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—A bill to place restrictions on the Department of Transportation’s proposed pilot program for Mexico-domiciled trucks has won the support of the two key leaders of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Committee Chairman James L. Oberstar (Minn.), and Highways and Transit Subcommittee Chairman Peter A. DeFazio (Ore.), have signed on to cosponsor the Safe American Roads Act of 2007. The bill is sponsored by Rep. Nancy Boyda of Kansas. Oberstar said his support stems from concerns that the Mexican trucking industry, and that country’s regulatory regime for motor carriers, still has not reached the point at which we can be assured that trucks crossing the international border can operate safely in this country. “The Safe American Roads Act of 2007 will restore accountability and fairness to the process of opening the border, and ensure that the U.S. proceeds with caution while outstanding safety issues are verified,” Oberstar said. “Several unanswered questions remain about whether the necessary systems are in place today to hold Mexico-domiciled motor carriers to the same strict federal standards that govern U.S. commercial truck operations, including hours of service, drug testing, and criminal background checks for drivers hauling hazardous materials.” "I have serious concerns about the Department of Transportation’s proposed pilot program and its potential to compromise safety on U.S. highways," DeFazio said. "That’s why I’m cosponsoring legislation that will require additional safety measures and require public notification and comment in developing the details of the program prior to any opening of our border. In addition, the legislation will prevent Mexico-domiciled motor carriers from accessing U.S. highways until U.S. based trucking companies are given comparable access in Mexico. We must ensure that the DOT does not rush to open the border without proper protections in place. The safety of the American public is at stake." “Today, trucks registered in Mexico can drive only inside narrow border zones in the United States before their cargoes are transferred to an American vehicle. That’s a good system; it’s working. It keeps America’s highways safe from poorly regulated Mexican traffic, prevents drug smuggling and illegal immigration, and protects American transportation jobs,” said Boyda. “But now the Department of Transportation is proposing a pilot program to allow Mexican trucks to drive far, far into the heartland of America. Today I introduced legislation to ensure that the DOT fully respects America’s laws and our safety. This administration’s mad rush toward unrestricted trade should never endanger America’s citizens or their jobs. It just shouldn’t.” Specifically, the bill: Prohibits DOT from granting authority to Mexico-domiciled motor carriers to operate beyond the commercial zones on the U.S.-Mexico border, except under a pilot program that meets the requirements set out in the bill; Requires the DOT cross-border pilot program to comply with all 22 requirements of the FY 2002 Department of Transportation Appropriations Act and all requirements set forth under TEA 21 relating to pilot programs; Prohibits the Secretary from initiating a pilot program until U.S. motor carrier companies are allowed to begin comparable operations in Mexico; Requires DOT, prior to initiation of the pilot program, to provide notice and opportunity for public comment on the details of the program, including the measures in place to protect the health and safety of the public, enforcement measures, penalties for non-compliance, and safety metrics used to evaluate the program; Restricts the timeframe for a pilot program and requires termination no later than one year after enactment of the bill; Requires an Inspector General review of the pilot program to determine whether Mexico-domiciled motor carriers participating in the pilot program are in full compliance with U.S. motor carrier safety laws, including the provisions detailed in Section 350, and a report to Congress within 90 days of completion of the pilot program; and Requires DOT to submit a report to Congress on the results of the pilot program within 60 days of completion of the pilot program.
03.27.2007	March 28, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today voted in favor of a bill that streamlines and improves the military health care system so that wounded returning veterans receive the care they deserve. The bill, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, was introduced in response to the appalling conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center that were recently brought to light. The bill, H.R. 1538, passed today by a unanimous vote. "Ensuring the health and well-being of those who risk their lives on a daily basis in service of their country is a top priority," DeFazio said. "The conditions that our men and women in uniform faced at Walter Reed were totally unacceptable. But the problems go beyond just Walter Reed, and that's why I am pleased this bill takes a comprehensive approach to reducing bureaucracy and improving all aspects of the care our wounded veterans receive upon returning home." The bill would: Improve access to quality medical care for wounded service members who are outpatients at military health care facilities; Begin the process of restoring the integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system and taking other steps to cut bureaucratic red tape; Improve the transition of wounded service members from the Armed Forces to the VA system; Create a new system of case managers, advocates and counselors for wounded service members to monitor progress, track cases and ensure proper care; Establish a toll-free hotline for service personnel and family members to report problems with care of facilities; Include an amendment introduced by Rep. Darlene Hooley that ensures wounded members of the National Guard and Reserves can receive medical care at the military treatment facility closest to their home rather than the base they deployed from, which can be thousands of miles from home; Improve mental health care services; and Increase the reimbursement for veterans who have to travel to receive medical care.
03.27.2007	March 28, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today praised the passage of an amendment that would continue payments to counties under the Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination Act through 2011. The amendment was added to the Senate version of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act, also known as the Emergency Supplemental bill. DeFazio was instrumental in getting a one-year extension of the payments included in the House Emergency Supplemental funding bill. "Today, the Senate finished the work we started in the House," DeFazio said. "The five-year funding extension that the Senate passed today built upon the one-year reauthorization that my colleagues and I fought so hard to get included on the House side. Thanks to Senator Reid's and Speaker Pelosi's recognition of the importance of this program to rural timber-dependent communities, counties will continue to be able to pay for essential services like law enforcement, schools, and road maintenance."
03.25.2007	The Register Guard March 25, 2007 By Peter DeFazio I recently voted to oppose the president's plan to escalate the Iraq war, just as I voted against the original authorization for the war in 2002. I first proposed my own plan for a timeline to bring our troops home in February of 2005, and I am currently a co-sponsor of three different bills to redeploy out of Iraq within six months to a year. Given my long record of vocal opposition to this war, I've been asked why I voted Friday to support the emergency supplemental spending bill that includes funds for troops in Iraq. For the first time since the war began four years ago - and less than three months since the change in control of Congress - Democrats are beginning to impose accountability on the Bush administration's open-ended commitment of American troops and treasure to Iraq. Put simply, this bill will end the war. It sets a binding deadline to bring our troops home. Under the bill, our troops could be home as early as the end of this year - and would be required to be home no later than mid-2008. While I personally could support and justify an earlier deadline for withdrawal, there is nowhere near majority support in Congress for that. Of the dozen bills introduced to end the war this year, none has more than 102 co-sponsors, fewer than half the number necessary to win a vote in the House. Some have suggested that defeating this bill would have caused the war to end, simply for lack of money. The reality is, Pentagon leaders have said they would just shift money around to continue the war by shortchanging readiness and repairs, and delaying reinforcements for our troops already in Afghanistan - including 800 members of the Oregon National Guard. Without the binding deadline in the bill, Republicans and a large number of conservative Democrats would just pass a ''clean'' spending bill that continues to fund an open-ended war without any accountability provisions. The choice was between funding the war without strings attached or passing a bill that, for the first time ever, will end the war. As the national peace group Council for a Livable World wrote, ''The alternative to passing the supplemental is not the passage of legislation with a tighter timeline. Rather, defeat of the supplemental will hand President Bush the policy and political victory he longs for by enabling the passage of a funding bill with no restrictions or timeline for withdrawal at all. That would be an irresponsible and tragic outcome.'' I also supported the bill because it contains $4.5 billion to improve health care for military personnel. This money will be used to improve identification and treatment for post-traumatic stress syndrome and traumatic brain injury, to address maintenance and staffing deficiencies such as those that contributed to the shameful conditions at Walter Reed Hospital, speed claims processing, and ensure that care can be provided for the growing number of injured veterans. Importantly, the bill prohibits the United States from maintaining permanent military bases in Iraq and any U.S. control over Iraqi oil. The bill also prohibits U.S. personnel from engaging in torture. I was also pleased that the bill refocuses the fight against al-Qaeda in Afghanistan by providing an additional $1 billion and reinforcements for that effort. There is widespread agreement that al-Qaeda and the Taliban are resurgent in Afghanistan. The diversion of military and intelligence assets to an unnecessary war in Iraq undermined the fight against al-Qaeda. This bill will begin to reverse that. The bill includes several important provisions to crack down on the wasteful no-bid contracts the administration has repeatedly awarded to its corporate friends. And it will penalize companies that fail to adequately fulfill contracts. More than 5 1/2 years after the Sept. 11 attacks, our country still has glaring security gaps here at home. The supplemental spending bill includes more than $2 billion to close gaps in aviation security, port security and transit security. Finally, the bill will extend federal funding for Oregon counties under the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, which I requested. Without this funding, counties in southwest Oregon will be forced to lay off workers; cut back on sheriffs; empty jail beds; and reduce public health programs, road and bridge maintenance, and other essential services. I support bringing the Iraq war to a conclusion as soon as possible. By establishing a firm timeline, this legislation advances that goal.
03.23.2007	March 23, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) voted today in favor of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act, also known as the Emergency Supplemental bill. The bill, H.R. 1591, passed the House today by a vote of 218 to 212. "This bill will end the war in Iraq," DeFazio said. "This is the first enforceable challenge to the President's plan to escalate and continue a stay-the-course, open-ended commitment to a war, a war that was launched with massive deception, and an unnecessary war. With the passage of this bill, Democrats are beginning to impose accountability on the Bush administration's open-ended commitment in Iraq. In establishing a binding timeline, this legislation brings us closer to bringing our troops home." Under the bill, U.S. troops would have to be withdrawn beginning no later than March 2008 and be fully withdrawn by August 2008. If the Iraqi government fails to achieve specific benchmarks, U.S. troops would be withdrawn by the end of this year. "This legislation will also refocus the war on terror to Afghanistan, where al-Qaeda and the Taliban are gaining strength," DeFazio said. "The diversion of military and intelligence assets to an unnecessary war in Iraq undermined the fight against al-Qaeda, and this bill will begin to reverse that. It also provides needed funding for health care for military personnel, prevents the U.S. from establishing permanent bases in Iraq, prohibits torture by U.S. personnel, cracks down on wasteful no-bid contracts and closes critical gaps in our defenses here at home." To watch a video of Rep. DeFazio speaking on the House floor about the Emergency Supplemental bill, please click here.
03.19.2007	March 20, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today hailed the agreement reached in the U.S. Senate to continue to fund the county payments program, also known as the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, for an additional four years. DeFazio was instrumental in getting a one-year extension of the payments included in the House Emergency Supplemental funding bill. "I am pleased that an agreement on long-term funding for the successful county payments program has been reached in the Senate," DeFazio said. "Thanks to Senator Ron Wyden's efforts and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's recognition of the importance of this funding, counties will continue to receive the funding they rely on to pay for vital services like law enforcement, schools, and road maintenance. "This agreement would ensure that counties continue to receive funding at a reduced rate for an additional four years beyond the one-year extension of full funding that I was able to get included in the House Emergency Supplemental funding bill."
03.13.2007	March 14, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) announced today that $60.4 million in disaster aid for the commercial salmon fishers and communities hard hit by last year's virtual closure of the coastal salmon fishing season has been included in the Emergency Supplemental funding bill. In January, DeFazio introduced legislation that would have provided this assistance, and sent a letter to House and Senate leadership urging them to provide this assistance via any legislative means possible. He has been fighting for assistance since the fishery closures were announced last year. "This disaster assistance will make a world of difference to members of fishing communities all along the coast, many of whom lost their way of life and main source of income with the widespread fishery closures," DeFazio said. "I am pleased the Democratic leadership heard the calls of my colleagues and me who have been asking for disaster assistance for almost a year. The next step is to find long-term solutions to improve the health of the Klamath River to prevent similar closures in the future, and maintain the fishing way of life." In late June 2006, DeFazio and other coastal members of Congress forced a meeting with Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez to inform him of the dire situation salmon fishers faced, and to press him to declare the West Coast Salmon season a disaster. A week later, Secretary Gutierrez declared a partial disaster declaration for the fishing season. Since then, DeFazio and his colleagues have been urging House and Senate leaders to appropriate funds for disaster assistance, including staging a protest on the House floor last year to force the then-Republican majority to include some disaster assistance in a funding bill.
03.12.2007	March 13, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today announced the reintroduction of legislation to address skyrocketing gas prices. The legislation would increase fuel efficiency standards as well as lower prices by cracking down on price gouging by the OPEC, imposing a windfall profits tax and increasing competition in the oil industry, among other measures. Gas prices in the state of Oregon are currently the fifth highest of any state in the country. DeFazio's legislation, the Gasoline Price Stabilization Act of 2007, is an updated version of legislation he originally introduced in March 2003. "We need both short-term measures to protect consumers and businesses from skyrocketing prices at the pump, and longer-term proposals to reduce our reliance on foreign oil and promote alternative technologies," DeFazio said. "The House recently approved an Energy Bill that would repeal a variety of oil industry giveaways and use that money to significantly boost the federal investment in alternative and renewable fuels, energy efficiency and conservation programs. This is a great start, but we must do more to ensure that oil companies are not gouging consumers at the pump while waiting for these longer-term efforts to bear fruit." The DeFazio legislation includes several short-term and long-term proposals to protect consumers and to reduce our reliance on foreign sources of oil: 1. Requires the President to file a trade complaint with the WTO against OPEC for illegally colluding to raise oil prices, which violates global trade rules. 2. Imposes a windfall profits tax on oil companies to decrease the incentive to gouge consumers. 3. Authorizes the use of the strategic petroleum reserve (a federal reserve of 700 million barrels of oil), as needed, to combat market manipulation and supply problems. Releasing oil from the federal stockpile will help ensure that supply disruptions (whether artificial or real) don't lead to price spikes. 4. Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to establish minimum inventory levels for producers, refiners, and marketers of crude oil and petroleum products in order to limit the impact unexpected supply disruptions have on prices. 5. Reinstates the ban on exporting oil from Alaska. 6. Puts a moratorium on oil company mergers (the non-partisan General Accounting Office reported 2,600 mergers in the U.S. petroleum industry since the mid-1990s - by one measure, four companies control 74 percent of the gasoline market in Oregon). It also creates a commission to investigate the impact mergers are having on prices and to make recommendations to restore competition in the petroleum industry. 7. Establishes a commission to study and report on the concentration of ownership of all aspects of exploring, refining, distributing and selling crude oil and petroleum products. 8. Mandates the average fuel economy standards to be increased to 37 mpg by 2017 and 40 mpg by 2022. 9. Requires the federal fleet of vehicles achieve an average fuel economy that is higher than the baseline average. The federal fleet would have to achieve a fuel economy of 3 miles per gallon higher than the average by 2010, and 6 miles per gallon higher than the average by 2013. DeFazio is also a cosponsor of two other bills to deal with gas prices—H.R. 594, which would regulate currently unregulated oil trading, and H.R. 1252, which would establish a federal prohibition against price gouging enforced by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general.
03.12.2007	March 13, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) held a hearing today to examine the current status of cross-border trucking operations between the United States and Mexico, and to assess the safety issues surrounding a U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) plan to allow 100 Mexico-based trucking companies access to U.S. highways beyond the commercial zone. DeFazio made the following statement after the hearing: "Virtually every member of Congress at the hearing, both Democratic and Republican, expressed serious concerns about this pilot program and the potential for compromised safety on our U.S. highways. I have always opposed NAFTA, and have long been alarmed at the prospect of Mexico-domiciled motor carriers operating beyond the current 20-mile commercial zone at our southern border. I am not confident that Mexican-owned trucking companies will meet U.S. safety and environmental standards. "The next step will be to assess what steps the committee can take to strengthen the proposed pilot program or to delay implementation of the program with the goal of better providing protections for the American traveling public."
03.08.2007	March 8, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) is pleased to announce today that a one-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act has been included in the Emergency Supplemental funding bill. "Today's news comes as a welcome victory in our fight to continue the successful and critical county payments program," DeFazio said. "For months, my sole focus has been finding a way to ensure these payments continue, to keep rural schools open, roads maintained and law enforcement patrolling. "Our hard work paid off today, thanks to the Democratic leadership's understanding of the critical need for this program. This is an important first step, and I will continue to fight to keep this funding in the bill. We still have hurdles to overcome before this short-term reauthorization is a reality. Once we get this funding passed, we will begin to work on a longer-term solution, which will need to be initiated on the Senate side." Last year, the county payments program provided nearly $280 million to 33 Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. DeFazio and Rep. Greg Walden have also introduced a bill that would reauthorize the county payments program for an additional seven years, HR 17. The bill includes $400 million, which will be paid out for the counties' 2007 fiscal year, which begins in July. The last payments to the counties were made in December for fiscal year 2006.
03.05.2007	Ga. bus accident underscores need for increased safety measures on intercity, charter and tour buses March 6, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—In light of the recent bus accident in Georgia which killed six people and injured 29, Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) announced today that the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee will hold a hearing to investigate the need for Congress to increase the safety of motorcoaches, including requiring seatbelts to be installed on intercity, charter and tour buses. DeFazio has long felt seatbelts should be required on buses. "The federal government has a vital and historic role in ensuring our roads and highways remain as safe as possible," DeFazio said. "Mandating seatbelts be installed in our passenger vehicles has proven to be a highly successful safety measure. However, there's no law requiring intercity, charter and tour buses to have seatbelts. "Though we do not know for certain how many injuries or deaths were related to the lack of seatbelts on the charter bus accident in Georgia, we do know that in the past decade, there have been a large number of survivable accidents and preventable injuries that might have been avoided had seatbelts been available to bus passengers. "Last week's tragedy highlights the need for Congress to step in where federal safety regulators have not, and address the overdue need for seatbelts on intercity, charter and tour buses. The European Union and Australia already require seatbelts to be installed in motorcoaches; the U.S. should follow suit." In 1999, the National Transportation Safety Board released a Bus Crash Worthiness Report in which it recommended that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration develop occupant protection systems for motor coach passengers. This recommendation is still on the NTSB's Most Wanted list. The hearing will take place later this month. Exact time and date of the hearing will be announced this week.
03.04.2007	March 5, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio's (D-Ore.) bill to designate a Forest Service trail in the Willamette National Forest in Lane County, Oregon, as the "Jim Weaver Loop Trail," named after former Oregon Congressman Jim Weaver, passed the House today. The trail goes around the world-renowned Waldo Lake, ranked one of the purest bodies of water on Earth and one of Oregon's largest natural lakes. The legislation, H.R. 247, would also designate this 22-mile trail as a national recreational trail under the National Trails System Act. "Naming this trail for Congressman Jim Weaver is a fitting tribute to his legacy as an advocate for outdoor recreation and as a protector of some of Oregon's most treasured natural features," DeFazio said. "During his time in Congress, one of Jim's top priorities was natural resource conservation, including a strong commitment to protecting Waldo Lake and the surrounding area. Generations of Oregonians will benefit from Jim's efforts to keep Waldo Lake pristine and pure. "Congressman Weaver was not only my predecessor as representative of Oregon's Fourth Congressional District, but he was also my boss—both here in Washington, DC, and back home in the district—and is a friend. I am pleased to honor someone who's done so much to protect Oregon's natural resources and wilderness, and to forever associate his name with an area he loves and has worked hard to protect." Congressman Weaver represented Oregon's Fourth District from 1975 to 1987. During his time in Congress, Weaver was a tireless advocate for stronger environmental protections on land and water. The bill is cosponsored by all five members of Oregon's congressional delegation, and is supported by the U.S. Forest Service and a number of local interest groups. In addition to naming the trail, DeFazio's legislation includes the installation and maintenance of a sign at the trailhead to provide information about the life and work of Congressman Weaver.
02.27.2007	March 2, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) voted today to strengthen measures to prevent approval of foreign investments that would endanger national security. The bill would put into place a thorough national security review process for foreign investments, including enhancing the role of Congress and improving the transparency and accountability of these reviews, preventing deals like last year's minimally reviewed and secretively approved Dubai Ports World deal. H.R. 556, the National Security FIRST Act, passed by a vote of 423 to 0 this afternoon. "The rise in foreign ownership of U.S. infrastructure must be accompanied by increased government oversight and review of these deals," DeFazio said. "A prime example of the need for more oversight was last year's Dubai ports proposal, which was approved after little review by mid-level officials, with members of Congress and senior administration officials only finding out about the deal through media reports. Today's legislation is a big step toward strengthening our national security and increasing transparency in the review process for foreign investments." The bill would require the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to conduct a 30-day review of any foreign investment with national security implications or any investment in the U.S. by a foreign government-controlled entity. It would require cabinet officials to vote and sign their names to deals that are approved. And it requires notification of Congress within five days after the CFIUS has made a decision on a deal as well as semi-annual reports on all transactions reviewed by CFIUS during the prior six months. The legislation must now be approved by the Senate.
02.15.2007	February 16, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) voted today for H. Con. Res. 63, which opposes the president's proposal for a troop surge in Iraq. The resolution passed by a 246 to 182 vote. "I voted in favor of today's resolution because I oppose escalation of the president's failing strategy in Iraq," DeFazio said. "Today's bipartisan vote sends a strong signal to the Bush administration that it must seriously rethink its plan for Iraq. "Instead of an escalation, we must announce a timeline negotiated with the Iraqi government to bring our troops home over the next six months to a year. Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The threat from WMDs in Iraq is nonexistent. The war that Congress authorized has been won. Our troops should come home. Congress did not authorize U.S. troops to referee a civil war in Iraq." The full text of the speech is available on Rep. DeFazio's website at https://www.defazio.house.gov/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=264. A video of the floor statement is also available on Rep. DeFazio's website at https://www.defazio.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=117&Itemid.
02.15.2007	February 16, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) made a five-minute speech last night about the House resolution opposing the president's proposal for a troop surge in Iraq, H. Con. Res. 63. Included is an excerpt from his speech. "I rise in support of today's resolution. The Bush administration has saddled our troops with a failed strategy in Iraq, and now proposes to escalate that strategy. Despite outrageous allegations from some on the Republican side, it is that failed strategy that hurts our troops, not the words of those of us who have pointed out the obvious. "In response to the resolution, Republicans have trotted out the tired and thoroughly discredited catchphrase that if we don't fight them there, we will have to fight them here, invoking the specter of Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda. However, U.S. intelligence agencies have refuted the claim that the conflict in Iraq is driven by al-Qaeda. The violence is driven by a 1,400-year-old conflict, primarily between Iraqi Sunnis and Shias, and our troops are caught in the middle. The Iraqi Sunnis and Shias have no interest in or capability to attack the United States. "The Republicans don't want to have a debate over the strategy and are trying to conflate support for the troops with support for the president's failed stay the course strategy dressed up with a little dose of escalation. Supporting the troops does not require supporting the failed policies of the president. "A better strategy is to announce a timeline negotiated with the Iraqi government to bring our troops home over the next six months to a year. Doing so would boost the Iraqi government's legitimacy and claim to self-rule, and force the Iraqi government to take responsibility for itself and its citizens. The U.S. must also engage in robust diplomacy with all factions in Iraq, except the foreign terrorists and domestic al-Qaeda elements, and work with Iraq's neighbors in an effort to bring about political reconciliation among Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds. "Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The threat from WMDs in Iraq is nonexistent. The war that Congress authorized has been won. Our troops should come home. Congress did not authorize U.S. troops to referee a civil war in Iraq." Click here to read the full text of the speech. Click here to view a video of Rep. DeFazio's floor statement.
02.14.2007	February 15, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Bobby Jindal (R-La.) and Gene Taylor (D-Miss.) announced today the introduction of legislation to remove the federal antitrust exemption from the insurance industry. Their bill, the Insurance Industry Competition Act, is companion legislation to a bill that was introduced in the Senate today by Senate Judiciary Committee chair Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Senator Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), and Senator Trent Lott (R-Miss.). Also cosponsoring the bill are Representatives Charlie Melancon (D-La.), Rodney Alexander (R-La.), and Walter Jones (R-NC). "The insurance industry, like Major League Baseball, is exempt from federal anti-trust laws," DeFazio said. "But the insurance industry, unlike Major League Baseball, has a direct impact on the life, health, safety and economic security of all American families. There is no justification for the insurance industry to be exempt from federal anti-trust laws. It is a quirk of history that needs to be corrected." "The insurance industry, as the result of an antiquated law, is currently one of the only consumer industries in the nation that is exempt from anti-trust laws," Jindal said. "This leaves every American at risk to collusion and price fixing by the insurance industry, a practice that is unfair at best, and despicable at worst. So many residents of Louisiana and the Gulf Coast can no longer find insurance coverage, much less affordable coverage, and something must be done to change that. It makes no sense that an industry that is so critical to so many has been given the legal ability to take advantage of its customers. By removing the anti-trust exemption, insurance customers will now not only be protected by their state insurance commissions, but the United States Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission as well. This is a huge step towards ensuring that all the residents of Louisiana, the Gulf Coast, and the rest of the country have access to the affordable insurance policies they need." The Insurance Industry Competition Act would repeal the exemption and give the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission the authority to apply the antitrust laws to anticompetitive behavior by insurance companies. This Act would not affect the ability of each state to regulate the business of insurance. Background: The McCarran-Ferguson Act, which gives states the authority to regulate the “business of insurance,” also exempts the business of insurance from the federal antitrust laws to limit competition. The only other industry exempt from antitrust laws is Major League Baseball. If there ever was, there is no longer any justification to exempt the insurance industry from federal government oversight. Such oversight could ensure that the industry is not engaging in anticompetitive conduct like price fixing, agreements not to pay, and divvying up geographical areas. This issue is particularly timely given the insurance issues raised in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Insurers have denied claims and delayed payouts to residents along the Gulf Coast instead of honoring their contractual commitments to their customers, thereby contributing to the rebuilding and rejuvenation of the area.
02.14.2007	SPEECH OF HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO OF OREGON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2007 We are debating a simple, straightforward resolution. Clause 1 says, "Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect the members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq." Every member of congress, Democrat or Republican, despite slanderous allegations from some on the Republican side, fully support our troops and want them to have the best equipment available to accomplish their mission. The disagreement is over the strategy that determines their mission. The Republicans don't want to have a debate over the strategy and are trying to conflate support for the troops with support for the president's failed stay the course strategy dressed up with a little dose of escalation. But, as President Theodore Roosevelt said during World War I, standing by a president whether right or wrong "is not only unpatriotic and servile, but is morally treasonable to the American public." He went on to say, "Patriotism means to stand by the country. It does not mean to stand by the president or any other public official." Supporting the troops does not require supporting the failed policies of this administration. The Republicans do not want to debate the conduct of the war and the future strategy in Iraq. Former House Intelligence Committee Chairman Peter Hoekstra and Rep. John Shadegg actually wrote a memo to their colleagues saying, "This debate should not be about the surge or its details. This debate should not even be about the Iraq war to date, mistakes that have been made, or whether we can, or cannot, win militarily. If we let Democrats force us into a debate on the surge or the current situation in Iraq, we lose." So there is a massive propaganda effort on the part of many Republicans to distract and dissemble. They have trotted out the tired and thoroughly discredited catch phrase that if we don't fight them there, we will have to fight them here, invoking the specter of Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda. However, U.S. intelligence agencies, including military intelligence agencies, have refuted the claim that the conflict in Iraq is driven by al-Qaeda. It is not. The violence is driven by a civil war, primarily between Iraqi Sunnis and Shias and their 1,400 year old grievances. The recent National Intelligence Estimate definitively put that issue to rest. The Iraqi Sunnis and Shias have no interest in or capability to attack the United States. Some in this debate have also made the ridiculous argument that if the U.S. leaves Iraq that somehow Osama bin Laden will take control and establish a safe haven for terrorists to attack the U.S. There is no chance that the Shias and Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of the population in Iraq, will allow Sunni foreign terrorist elements like al-Qaeda to take over the country. Even many Sunnis have grown tired of foreign terrorists operating in Iraq, with several Sunni tribes fighting al-Qaeda operatives. Osama bin Laden, al-Qaeda and their Taliban allies are still alive and active along the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan thanks to the Bush administration's massive diversion of troops and resources from Afghanistan to an unnecessary war in Iraq. We do need to reinforce our troops and allies in Afghanistan in order to end once and for all the threat posed by the al-Qaeda and Taliban leadership. Our nation and our troops were led into the war in Iraq by the distortion of intelligence and dissembling by the president and senior members of his administration. It is time for the truth. The Bush administration has saddled our troops with a failed strategy in Iraq. It is that failed strategy that hurts our troops, not the words of those of us who have pointed out the obvious. The administration blunders in Iraq are well-known. They went in with too few troops against the advice of military leaders like General Shinseki. They disbanded the Iraqi army. They failed to understand the ethnic tensions and power bases in Iraq. They purged the Iraqi government of the bureaucratic experience necessary to have a functioning government, among others. I do not believe there is any level of U.S. troops that could stabilize Iraq at this point and resolve the underlying ages old sectarian conflicts. The time when more troops might have made a lasting difference has come and gone. There might be a small, temporary reduction in the chaos in Iraq, but the escalation will not solve the deep and underlying political conflicts that are preventing a long-term resolution to the violence. The administration already increased the number of U.S. troops in Baghdad last summer in Operation Together Forward and has increased the number of troops throughout Iraq at other times as well, yet the violence against our troops and Iraqi security forces and civilians continues to increase. Short-term improvements in security in the wake of U.S. troop increases have always given way to the long-term trend of increased violence and a growing civil war. Based on historical analysis, counterinsurgency experts, including General Petraeus, who is now the top U.S. General in Iraq but also recently rewrote the Army's counterinsurgency manual, estimate it takes around 20 U.S. troops per 1,000 inhabitants to successfully fight a counterinsurgency. To achieve that ratio in Baghdad alone would require 120,000 troops. Even with the increase proposed by the President, the U.S. would only have a third of that at best. For all of Iraq, it would require 500,000 troops. General Shinseki's original estimate that it would take several hundred thousands troops to invade and stabilize Iraq was based on this counterinsurgency literature. After the escalation we'll only have around 160,000. The bottom line is that a proposal to increase U.S. troop levels in Baghdad or Iraq more generally by more than 20,000 is not a serious effort to restore stability to Iraq. As General John Abizaid, then the head of all U.S. forces in the Middle East, testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on November 15, 2006, ``I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the core commander, General Dempsey, we all talked together. And I said, in your professional opinion, if we were to bring in more American Troops now, does it add considerably to our ability to achieve success in Iraq? And they all said no. And the reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It is easy for the Iraqis to rely upon to us do this work. I believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own future.'' Essentially, the President is proposing to put more lives at risk with virtually no chance of changing the dynamic in Iraq. The president remains optimistic. Optimism is not a strategy. Staying the course and repeating the failures of the past is not a new strategy. Vice President Dick Cheney, despite the grim National Intelligence Estimate acknowledging the civil war in Iraq, dismissed suggestions that Iraq is a disaster, saying, "The reality on the ground is that we've made major progress." Optimism, stay the course, delusion and denial do not serve our troops well. We need a real change in strategy. A better strategy is to announce a timeline negotiated with the Iraqi government to bring our troops home over the next 6 months to a year. The administration has always set timelines for political developments in Iraq--for elections, for the drafting of the constitution etc. The administration argued such timelines were necessary to focus the energy of Iraq's leaders and to force compromises. We need to do the same on the military side. Negotiating a timeline for bringing home U.S. troops with responsible parties in the Iraqi government would also boost the Iraqi government's legitimacy and claim to self-rule, and force the Iraqi government to take responsibility for itself and its citizens. Negotiating a withdrawal timeline and strategy with the Iraqi government could, more than possibly anything else, improve the standing of the Iraqi government in the eyes of its own people, a significant achievement in a region in which the standing of rulers and governments is generally low. A timeline for bringing home our troops could also abate the insurgencies of both Sunnis and Shias. Too many Iraqis view our troops as an occupying force. Large majorities of both Sunnis and Shias want U.S. troops to withdraw and approve of attacks on our men and women in uniform. As the Iraqi National Security Advisor, Mowaffak al-Rabaie wrote in the Washington Post on June 20, 2006, the removal of U.S. troops from Iraq, "will help the Iraqis who now see foreign troops as occupiers rather than the liberators they were meant to be. It will remove psychological barriers and the reason that many Iraqis joined the so-called resistance in the first place." He went on to write, "Moreover, the removal of foreign troops will legitimize Iraq's government in the eyes of its people...the drawdown of foreign troops will strengthen our fledgling government to last the full four years it is supposed to." And, the U.S. must engage in robust diplomacy with all factions in Iraq, except the foreign terrorists and domestic al-Qaeda elements, and work with Iraq's neighbors in an effort to bring about political reconciliation among Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds. Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The threat from WMDs in Iraq is nonexistent. The war that Congress authorized has been won. Our troops should come home. Congress did not authorize U.S. troops to referee a civil war in Iraq.
02.12.2007	February 13, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) made the following statement after the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee hearing this morning on "Public-Private Partnerships: Innovative Financing and Protecting the Public Interest": "The Bush administration has been warning state governments about the growing gap between infrastructure needs and resources. Unfortunately, their only suggested solution is to privatize the existing infrastructure. In pushing this ideological policy, the administration has failed to disclose the potential downfalls as well as possible gains of privatization. Under questioning, a witness from the Department of Transportation (DOT) agreed that, in addition to issuing model legislation for privatization, the DOT should also disclose potential problems with privatization, like monopoly pricing and noncompete agreements. Dennis Enright, principal of the NW Financial Group, a witness who has analyzed recent public-private partnerships, made a strong case that there's no inherent advantage to privatizing existing assets. In fact, the public sector could monetize assets to generate an up-front payment while realizing a revenue stream from the facilities. Capital is readily available to states for these projects. "Overall, the hearing raised questions about the appropriateness of many of these anticipated agreements, especially those involving existing assets like the Pennsylvania toll road, and others."
02.08.2007	Bush plan won't cure what ails us Register Guard February 8, 2007 By Peter DeFazio The Register-Guard editorialized on Jan. 28 that the health care proposal put forward by President Bush in his State of the Union address is "modest," "fine," and "constructive." While the president's proposal may sound innocuous, it is not. It represents a radical departure from the very concept of insurance and pooling risk. It undermines Social Security and Medicare. It serves the goal of eliminating the social safety net and shifting all economic risk onto individual families. All this and it would cover, at best, one in 10 Americans who are uninsured. The president would solve the "problem" of Americans having too much health care by undermining the employer-based health care system through which 62 percent of Americans get their health care. In its place, he wants you to go, hat in hand, to insurance companies and purchase an individual health care plan on your own. The Commonwealth Fund reports that Americans who purchase individual plans "give their health plans lower ratings, pay more out-of-pocket for premiums, face higher deductibles, and spend a greater percentage of income on premiums and health care expenses." That's exactly the point from the president's perspective: get Americans to use less health care by raising your expenses. Of course, as The Register-Guard rightly points out, tens of millions of Americans can't get individual insurance plans because insurance companies deny or limit coverage or charge exorbitant prices to avoid covering those who most need insurance. The president's plan actually makes things worse for people who are already sick because they will face higher premiums in the individual insurance market, if they can get coverage at all. The president's proposal is centered on a tax deduction of $15,000 for a family and $7,500 for an individual. A tax deduction will not make these plans more affordable or available. In addition, because this exclusion would also reduce payroll taxes, it would undermine Social Security and Medicare by cutting the revenue coming into these critical programs at the same time they face other financial pressures. Medicare Part A, which is funded via payroll taxes and covers in-patient hospital costs, skilled nursing care, home health care and hospice care, could be hit hard. And, although details about the president's plan are scarce, leading experts argue the payroll tax changes will lead to cuts in Social Security benefits. According to the director of the non-partisan Tax Policy Center, "A family earning $30,000 a year could see its retirement benefit cut in half." A better approach is: 1) Repeal the insurance industry's anti-trust exemption. Insurance companies and Major League Baseball are the only two industries to be exempt from anti-trust laws. That means insurance companies can legally collude to raise prices and exclude individuals from coverage. I am reintroducing legislation to repeal this exemption in order to restore competition to the industry. 2) Create a federal plan. The plan's benefits should be based on the Federal Employees Health Benefit Program, the insurance provided to members of Congress, and Medicare that would compete on price and service with private insurance plans. Premium assistance would be provided to lower-income individuals and families. The federal plan would be funded from money currently used for Medicaid and money that goes to reimburse hospitals and others who provide uncompensated care to the uninsured today. There would also be cost sharing by beneficiaries and a modest buy-in by employers who do not offer insurance. You would be able to choose your doctors. No one who currently has insurance, whether private or via federal programs such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, military health care, or Medicare, would be forced to change. This plan would keep what works reasonably well in the current system, but would also provide a new option for individuals and employers who now cannot afford insurance. The health care challenges facing our country are extremely complex. But, as the Hippocratic Oath says, "First, do no harm." The president's proposal violates that maxim by making the current situation worse. Congress should leave the president's proposal in the operating room, not revive it.
02.07.2007	February 7, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and Greg Walden (R-Hood River) are helping communities across Oregon clean up methamphetamine labs and the toxic mess they leave behind. Reps. DeFazio, Blumenauer and Walden, all members of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, cosponsored H.R. 365, a bill that charges the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with the development of health-based guidelines to assist state and local authorities in cleaning up former meth lab sites. The bill passed today by a vote of 426 to 2. "Methamphetamines have devastated the lives of too many Oregonians and their families," DeFazio said. "Communities throughout Oregon and the U.S. will face untold costs in responding to the human, environmental and health consequences of this scourge for years to come. The country needs a better strategy and adequate resources to fight this growing epidemic, and this bill takes an important step toward that goal." "Oregon has made impressive strides to prevent the abuse of methamphetamines by requiring prescriptions for pseudoephedrine and advancing the Stomp Out Meth Project, an Oregon solution for methamphetamine addiction," Blumenauer said. "The federal government needs to partner with local communities to address this epidemic. One way we can help is by having the EPA create guidelines and work with local authorities to clean up old meth labs." "As I learned during seven town halls I held on methamphetamine throughout southern, eastern and central Oregon, from Pendleton to Paisley families and communities are being torn apart by this epidemic," Walden said. "Children and their families are subjected to toxic fumes left over from meth labs, and it’s essential that we determine when it is safe to occupy the spaces where this poison has been produced. The least we can do at the federal level is help arm those engaged in this battle on the front lines with the tools and research critical to the safe and effective remediation of facilities and lands contaminated by use and production of this devastating substance." In addition to establishing clean-up guidelines, the bill would also: - Direct the National Institute of Standards and Technology to consult with EPA in developing technologies to detect meth labs, emphasizing in field test kits for law enforcement. - Require the National Academy of Sciences to study the long-term health impacts of meth exposure on first-responders and on children taken from meth lab sites. Methamphetamine abuse is a widespread problem in Oregon. Oregon treats more people for meth addiction per capita than any other state in the country and is consistently ranked in the top 10 states nationally for meth lab seizures, with the Drug Enforcement Agency reporting almost 200 meth labs seized in 2005. Oregon Representatives David Wu (D-Portland) and Darlene Hooley (D-West Linn) also cosponsored the bill.
02.04.2007	February 5, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement on President Bush's fiscal year 2008 budget, which was released this morning. "Overall, the president's budget is a major disappointment. He failed to meet his stated goal of balancing the budget in five years, even when he borrows nearly every penny of the Social Security surplus -- which totals $1.2 trillion. The president also makes $29 billion in cuts to Medicaid and $252 billion in cuts to Medicare over 10 years. He continues to prioritize tax cuts for the wealthiest among us over the priorities of American families, like stabilizing the future of Social Security and providing health care for seniors and disabled Americans. "The president's budget also includes a half-hearted attempt to provide half the money the county payments program needs. His proposal to sell federal lands to pay for the program is a rehash of last year's failed proposal, which failed even to get out of the starting gate because of the massive amount of bipartisan opposition it faced. We must reauthorize and fully fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. Congressman Greg Walden and I will continue to work to pass a one-year reauthorization of the program, as well as to find a workable offset for a seven-year reauthorization. "The president's proposal for the Bonneville Power Administration is slightly better than past proposals. It would not trigger an immediate rate increase, but it could still lead to a rate increase in the future. I will continue to fight any proposals that would mandate a rate increase. "There was one bright spot in the budget -- funding for veterans. For the first time in his presidency, President Bush proposed a major increase in veterans' funding to meet commitments to our vets. This increase in funding was long overdue and sorely needed, but may not be enough."
02.01.2007	February 2, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Co-chairs of the Northwest Energy Caucus Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) and Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today commended the Bush administration for abandoning two previous budget proposals related to the Bonneville Power Administration that would have raised power rates in the Northwest and limited infrastructure investment. The budget proposals were abandoned at the request of the Northwest Energy Caucus and other regional stakeholders. However, DeFazio, Hastings and Walden continue to have serious concerns about the budget proposal related to Bonneville's surplus sales revenue. One of the abandoned provisions would have required the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) to sell its energy at market rates, rather than its current practice of selling at cost. Selling at market rates would require Bonneville to raise its rates by approximately 50 percent. The other abandoned provision, which the delegation has been fighting for years, would have required Bonneville to count any arrangement to use third-party financing to build transmission infrastructure against Bonneville's borrowing authority from the U.S. Treasury. This proposal would have essentially eliminated this financing option for Bonneville and restricted necessary infrastructure investments in the region. However, DeFazio, Hastings and Walden expressed concern that the president's budget continues to call for Bonneville to use revenues from surplus power sales above $500 million to accelerate repayments of its debt to the Treasury rather than using it to keep rates as low as possible. The administration argues the proposal would create additional room under Bonneville's borrowing authority cap to make infrastructure investments. However, the delegation has argued that this proposal represents a guaranteed rate increase, while the benefits are purely speculative and unlikely to appear. "While this budget is less harmful to Northwest energy consumers than previous budgets, I remain concerned that the administration continues to push an ill-considered proposal that would make Bonneville's power rates artificially high while resulting in little or no benefit to the region," DeFazio said. "I'm pleased that the administration has responded to some of our long-standing concerns, however the remaining rate-raising proposal is not acceptable and I hope they will continue working toward consensus with regional stakeholders," Hastings said. "I'm glad the administration finally heard our roar on some key issues, but they have much homework to still do," Walden said. "The benefits of BPA have been bought and paid for by ratepayers in the region, and it's critical that the budget not be balanced on the backs of ratepayers in the Northwest. Those of us in Congress from the Northwest will continue to stick closely together in protecting ratepayers in our region."
01.31.2007	February 1, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and Greg Walden (R-Hood River) enlisted 94 fellow members of Congress to join them in sending a letter to leaders in the House and on the Appropriations Committee urging them to include language to reauthorize and fund a one-year extension of the county payments program in the Emergency Supplemental bill. The county payments program, also known as the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, expired last year and must be reauthorized. Last year, the county payments program provided nearly $280 million for Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. DeFazio and Walden have also introduced a bill that would reauthorize the county payments program for an additional seven years, HR 17. The text of the letter follows. January 30, 2007 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H-232, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable John Boehner Minority Leader H-204, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable David Obey Chairman Committee on Appropriations Room H-218, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Jerry Lewis Ranking Minority Member Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth HOB Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Colleagues: As you develop the Emergency Supplemental (Supplemental) to fund vital government programs we implore you to include in it language to reauthorize and fully fund an extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 (P.L. 106-393). This program, and funding for it, is critical to the survivability of over 775 rural counties and 4,400 schools near national forests in 42 states across the country. P.L. 106-393 expired at the end of September 2006, and if not reauthorized and funded, will result in a substantial and excruciating funding cut for rural counties across America. This act was passed by Congress to provide funding to offset the loss of revenues to counties resulting from severely reduced federal timber sales. The law has kept schools open, roads maintained, search and rescue missions operating, and many other essential local services afloat. The federal government made a pact with rural communities nearly a century ago when it established the federal timber sale program which provided counties a portion of revenue from federal timber sales. Harvest levels on federal lands have been significantly reduced over the past decade by changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, Congress demonstrated its commitment to continue the pact they made with rural counties by passing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. To not reauthorize and fund the Act would break the federal government’s pledge to these rural communities all across the country. We have attached a copy of a letter sent by the National Governors Association to the House and Senate leadership in September of 2006 urging support for reauthorization of this program. Clearly, a law important enough to be supported by the association representing all 50 governors deserves the full attention of the Congress and favorable action in the first hours of the 110th Congress. The Emergency Supplemental would be the last opportunity to address this critical issue before counties have to start implementing cuts to schools and services. A number of counties around the country have already begun sending out pink slips notifying employees of potential lay-offs. Without reauthorization of and funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, the predicament will be an emergency without rescue for hundreds and hundreds of rural counties across America. Thank you for your serious consideration of including language to reauthorize and fully fund P.L. 106-393 in the forthcoming Emergency Supplemental. Best regards, /s/ Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Greg Walden Member of Congress Click here for a PDF copy of the preceding letter as well as the letter from the National Governors Association sent to House and Senate leadership in support of reauthorization.
01.31.2007	February 1, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement on his vote in favor of H.J.Res.20, the Continuing Resolution, in the House yesterday. Last year, the Republican-led Congress failed to pass 10 of the 13 appropriations bills that fund the federal government. Funding for those remaining 10 appropriations bills was combined into H.J. Res.20 which will provide funding for federal agencies and programs through September, which is the end of the 2007 federal fiscal year. "On Tuesday, Congressman Walden and I filed an amendment to the Continuing Resolution to reauthorize and fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act for one year," DeFazio said. "We were not allowed to offer the amendment. However, there was a procedural vote which would have allowed a vote on the amendment. I broke with my party leadership on that vote in order to force a vote on the amendment. It's is virtually unprecedented to vote against one's leadership on procedural votes. My vote got the attention of the Democratic leadership and I got a meeting with Speaker Pelosi to discuss the dire need to reauthorize and fund county payments. As a result of that meeting, I feel we have a good opportunity to get county payments included in the Emergency Supplemental funding bill. "I voted against my party on the procedural motion to get the leadership's attention and support for the county payments that are so vital to Oregon counties, and I was successful in my effort. Once we failed to get a vote on the DeFazio-Walden amendment, I voted for the Continuing Resolution to keep the federal government running, and to ensure continued funding for critical programs like veterans health care, Pell grants and Head Start, fire management programs and local and federal law enforcement programs." The Continuing Resolution passed by a vote of 286-140, with 57 Republicans voting with the Democrats to continue funding for the federal government. Click here for a PDF copy of a letter sent to House leadership by Congressmen DeFazio and Walden urging them to include a one-year reauthorization of the program in H.J.Res 20, the Continuing Resolution. Click here for a PDF copy of a letter of thanks from the Association of Oregon Counties for Congressmen DeFazio and Walden's efforts to include the county payments program in the Continuing Resolution.
01.23.2007	January 23, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today responded to President Bush's State of the Union address. Following are DeFazio's remarks: "American voters sent a clear message for change last November that the president's failed policies on Iraq, the economy, energy policy, and health care, are no longer acceptable. Tonight's speech proves the president was not listening. He offers no substantial changes to the American people. Tax and health care policies continue to favor the wealthiest among us, with little relief for the average American family. The president's 'stay the course' plan for Iraq involves sending over 20,000 more troops to referee a civil war that's been going on for 1,400 years. And despite the president's professed interest in a new energy policy, he opposes legislation passed by the House that would move America toward energy independence." Iraq: "The president continues to mislead the American people about the situation in Iraq, and he continues to offer a status quo, more of the same, stay the course plan. The war that Congress authorized has been won. Saddam Hussein is dead. There is no threat from weapons of mass destruction. Our troops should not be forced to continue policing a 1,400-year-old civil war between Sunnis and Shiites. It is time to turn control of the country over to the Iraqis to build their own future, and bring our troops home." Energy: "Each year, the President talks a good game on energy, but his follow-through is always to lavish taxpayer subsidies on his powerful friends in the oil and gas industries while they gouge consumers. By contrast, the House just voted to repeal a variety of oil industry giveaways and to use that money to significantly boost the federal investment in alternative and renewable fuels, energy efficiency and conservation programs. Unfortunately, the president is opposed to that bill. If we're going to cure our nation's 'addiction to oil,' the White House must offer more than just rhetorical support." Health care: "The president rehashed his greatest hits on health care policy, including health savings accounts, medical liability reform, and association health plans. However, none of these policies make health care more affordable or accessible for middle- and lower-income families. The only new idea he offered is to tax those who currently have employer-provided health care in order to allow those without to try their luck begging insurance companies to provide them with an individual plan. That is not a serious effort to expand health care to the 47 million Americans without insurance." Budget/taxes: "The president insists that it is possible to cut taxes by trillions of dollars, increase defense spending by billions of dollars and still balance the federal budget. His record of the last six years proves otherwise. President Bush's strategy has led to more debt accumulated during the last six years than by the first 41 presidents combined. The budget cannot be balanced solely by cutting spending. In fact, we could eliminate the entire discretionary budget except for the Pentagon, and the federal budget would still be in deficit. Congress must instill discipline on both spending and taxation. The House just voted to require any additional spending or tax cuts in the federal budget be offset so that it does not add to the deficit. If the president were serious about restoring fiscal responsibility, he would support that common sense rule." Immigration: "I agree with the president that we need to significantly improve security at our nation's borders. I have voted for a variety of bills to do just that. I also agree that employers who hire illegal immigrants must face the legal consequences. However, I strongly disagree with the president's proposal to import hundreds of thousands of so-called 'guest workers' every year. That is a recipe for lower wages, reduced bargaining power, and dismal working conditions for millions of American workers." Strengthening the military: "I was pleased that the president ended his fight against Congress' efforts to increase the size of the Army and Marine Corps. His belated recognition that we need a larger military force is welcome! For five years, I (and many of my colleagues) have supported an increase in active duty military." Social Security reform: "The president again raised the specter of Social Security privatization. His proposal actually makes Social Security's financial problems worse, not better. That is no solution. His plan would also lead to large benefit cuts and would put beneficiaries at the whim of the stock market. I plan to reintroduce my own Social Security plan that would stabilize its financing by ensuring that millionaires pay the same percentage of their income to support Social Security as the average Oregonian, among other reforms to strengthen the program and improve benefits."
01.17.2007	January 18, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today in support of a new energy policy that will increase investment in renewable energy and put the U.S. on the path to energy independence. Today's legislation will repeal $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for big oil companies in order to invest in clean, renewable energy, alternative fuels and energy efficiency. The House passed the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007, HR 6, by a vote of 264 to 123. "It's outrageous that taxpayer subsidies to oil companies have increased in recent years while companies like Exxon Mobil have reported the highest corporate profits in history," DeFazio said. "Oil companies have become corporate welfare queens. Today's legislation will repeal these unnecessary subsidies and make sure oil companies pay the royalties they owe for drilling in public lands. It will also spur the development of clean, renewable energy and alternative fuels by investing in American ingenuity, which will create jobs and make the U.S. more energy secure. "For too long, our nation's energy policies have been stuck in the 1950s. We need to commit to a sustainable, clean energy future in the same way President Kennedy committed to landing a man on the moon. Today's bill was an important step in that direction. A clean energy future can sound like a science fiction dream, but it is entirely doable. We just need to break the hold that big energy companies have on federal policies." The bill would ensure oil companies that were awarded the 1998 and 1999 leases for drilling pay their fair share in royalties, and would close loopholes, ending multiple giveaways for big oil in the tax code and in the 2005 Energy bill. Further, the bill would create a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve to invest in clean, renewable energy resources and alternative fuels, promote new energy technologies, develop greater efficiency and improve energy conservation. To access video of DeFazio speaking on the House floor about this bill, please go to the Videos section of the website, located in the lower left hand corner of the website. The video is entitled "01.18.07: Floor speech on Energy Bill."
01.17.2007	January 18, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) today announced a grant to the state of Louisiana for approximately $2.7 million to cover the costs of reimbursing the Oregon National Guard (ONG) for services provided in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina. The state of Louisiana must now reimburse the ONG for this amount. The funds are expected to be transferred to the ONG this week. Oregon's entire congressional delegation sent a letter to FEMA Acting Director R. David Paulison in early December informing him of the shortfall the Oregon Military Department faced without FEMA's reimbursement, and urged him to remedy this oversight as soon as possible. Thanks to the delegation's efforts, the ONG will be reimbursed in full. Because of the federal government's belated response to Hurricane Katrina, Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco requested the ONG to assist in the relief effort. The ONG exceeded expectations by deploying over 2,100 soldiers and their equipment to New Orleans in less than three days. "Our soldiers volunteered to provide a vital service during a time of emergency, and the Oregon Military Department should be fully reimbursed for that valuable work," DeFazio said. "It's past time the federal government fulfilled its obligation to these soldiers." “We could not allow our brave soldiers to get stuck with the bill when they’ve already risked so much,” Wyden said. “I’m glad that FEMA has finally seen the wisdom of fully reimbursing our citizen soldiers for their sacrifice.” "The federal government had a responsibility to meet for the tremendous work done by the Oregon National Guard in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and I'm glad they met it," Walden said. "I will always be extremely proud of what the Oregon National Guard did for their fellow citizens in Louisiana and Mississippi under the most difficult of circumstances, and for the services they provide our communities every day." "When the city of New Orleans was in crisis in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the Oregon National Guard was there to help," Blumenauer said. "I am pleased the federal government is keeping its end of the bargain and reimbursing the Oregon National Guard for its service to our country." "In less than three days, Oregon's National Guard stepped up to the plate and provided the assistance New Orleans needed to begin to heal. But for over a year, the state of Oregon carried the financial cost," Wu said. "It was good to hear finally that FEMA did the right thing." "Oregon's citizen soldiers answered the call swiftly and should be fully reimbursed for their outstanding service," Hooley said. "I am pleased to see FEMA finally take concrete action to ensure that finally happens." “Oregon’s National Guard does a tremendous job, often in dire circumstances,” Smith said. “This funding is essential in supporting their efforts during the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.”
01.17.2007	Trade office would provide independent, nonpartisan information on trade agreements January 19, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio introduced legislation today to establish a Congressional Trade Office (CTO), which would provide Congress with independent, nonpartisan, neutral expertise on trade issues. The CTO would be modeled after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), which was created in 1974 by Congress to provide objective, timely, and nonpartisan analyses needed for economic and budget decisions. Congress created the CBO in response to concerns about the concentration of power within the executive branch at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). A similar concentration of power exists today with respect to trade issues. Given the complexity and broad economic and social impacts of today's trade agreements, it is critical to provide Congress with similar expertise on trade matters. Under the U.S. Constitution, Congress has the power to "regulate commerce with foreign nations." The CTO would provide Congress with independent, nonpartisan, neutral trade expertise, which will help in providing more effective and active oversight of trade policy, and more effective direction to the Executive Branch on trade issues. The duties of the CTO include: - Providing committees of Congress with information and analyses that will assist in the discharge of matters within their jurisdiction. This assistance is available to all committees with oversight of issues impacted by trade agreements. - Monitoring compliance of other countries with major bilateral, regional, and multilateral trade agreements, including annual assessments on the extent to which those agreements comply with labor and environmental goals. - Analyzing the president's annual National Trade Policy Agenda, the National Trade Estimate report (which documents trade barriers of other countries), and the overall trade balances of the U.S. with trading partners. - Participating as observers in dispute settlement deliberations at the World Trade Organization, under the North American Free Trade Agreement, and subsequent agreements, and report to Congress on such deliberations. - Participating as observers in bilateral, regional, and multinational trade negotiations, and report to Congress on such negotiations.
01.16.2007	January 17, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio is the new chair of the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chair James Oberstar announced today. DeFazio was elected by his colleagues at a meeting of the Democratic Caucus of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure last night. "I am looking forward to tackling the tremendous challenges we face to plan, build and pay for a 21st century transportation system," DeFazio said. "We must begin a review of the current highway program, SAFETEA-LU. We will look into the push by the Bush administration to privatize and toll existing interstates. We will also examine the myriad safety issues posed by the possibility of allowing Mexican trucks in the U.S., hours of service for truck drivers, and cyclists on rural roads. We must also improve mass transit." The first hearing of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee will be on Wednesday, January 24th at 10 a.m. The title of the hearing is “Surface Transportation System: Challenges for the Future.” The purpose of the hearing is to receive testimony on the challenges facing our transportation system 30 to 50 years from now, as well as to hear about the work of the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission created in SAFETEA-LU. The subcommittee is expected to hold a hearing next month on public-private partnerships.
01.16.2007	When fully phased in, this bill would save typical student borrower in Oregon $4,740 over the life of their loans January 17, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Today, almost a year after the Republican Congress passed legislation to raise interest rates on subsidized student loans in order to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted to reverse that increase. The House passed a bill that will make college more affordable and accessible by reducing the rate on subsidized college loans for undergraduates in half over the next five years—cutting the interest rate from the current 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 356 to 71. "In a cynical move last year, the Republican Congress voted to increase student loan rates in order to pay for more tax cuts for wealthy investors," DeFazio said. "Today, Congress reversed that increase, cutting the interest rates of subsidized student loans in half. This legislation reflects the priorities of average Americans, not the wealthiest few. It targets low- and middle-income students and families with the most financial need—those who receive subsidized student loans. And it doesn't add a penny to the deficit. "Tuition and fees at four-year public colleges and universities have risen 41 percent in six years. We must ensure that a good education is within the grasp of every American. Reducing interest rates on subsidized student loans is just a first step toward addressing this problem. Later this year, Democrats will also increase the maximum Pell Grant scholarship and take other important steps to reduce the financial barriers to a college education." The plan is paid for by making modest reductions in certain lender and guaranty agency subsidies in order to make the student loan program more efficient and effective for students and American taxpayers. Once the plan is fully phased in, the average student borrower in Oregon would save $4,740 over the life of their loans. In the 2004-2005 school year, there were 40,721 subsidized loan borrowers in Oregon at four-year institutions, including 13,831 at OSU and the University of Oregon.
01.15.2007	January 16, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Today, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio reintroduced a resolution calling on the president to seek authorization from Congress prior to taking any military action against Iran. DeFazio has been concerned about the issue since early 2005, when various news reports, including a report by Seymour Hersh, who won a Pulitzer Prize for uncovering the My Lai massacre, indicated that the administration was planning military action against Iran. "When Attorney General Alberto Gonzales was White House Counsel, he came up with a novel legal theory that the president can take whatever military action he wants without getting prior authorization from Congress," DeFazio said. "My resolution calls on the president to follow the law as set by Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution and get authorization from Congress before taking any military action against Iran. Members of the House of Representatives have been elected by their constituents to participate in major decisions like initiating military strikes against other countries, and it is an injustice to the American people to deny them that prerogative. Our founders intentionally put the responsibility for deciding whether to send our troops into battle into the hands of the Congress because they did not want the president to have the power of a king. The president claiming otherwise does not make it so." Currently, 17 other representatives have signed on to be original cosponsors of the bill. DeFazio has a long record of trying to protect the war powers granted to Congress in the Constitution. He introduced his first bill to strengthen the War Powers Resolution in 1988, and has authored bills dealing with war powers on ten different occasions since then. He also cosponsored an amendment introduced by Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) that would have prohibited any of the funds made available by the 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations bill from being used to attack Iran unless the president had received authorization from Congress to do so. DeFazio also sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in September urging her to engage in direct diplomacy with Iran, noting the similarities between the negotiating proposals put forth by Iran and the European Union since 2003 that could serve as the basis for a diplomatic solution. The letter can be found here: https://www.defazio.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=170&Itemid=0
01.11.2007	January 12, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today to lower drug costs by allowing the U.S. government the power to negotiate with drug companies for lower prescription drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. The House passed the bill, HR 4, this afternoon by a vote of 255 to 170. "One of the major flaws of the 2003 Medicare Part D program is that it bars the government from negotiating for lower drug prices, a provision included at the behest of drug manufacturers," DeFazio said. "Today's legislation remedies this flaw. There's no reason that Medicare should be the only entity in the country that cannot bargain for lower group drug prices. "This bill was a good first step toward improving our prescription drug program. However, there is more work to be done. We must also allow for reimportation of less expensive FDA-approved prescription drugs and restore fair pricing clauses, so that prescription drugs developed with taxpayer funds are priced reasonably. In addition, we should make sure Medicare, like Medicaid, receives the best price possible when it purchases drugs." HR 4 provides Medicare broad discretion on how to best implement the negotiating authority and achieve price discounts for Medicare beneficiaries. In conducting these negotiations, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may not restrict access to certain medicines in Medicare. The Medicare Part D program includes a large coverage gap and many giveaways to drug companies, and it has failed to slow the rapid growth in drug prices. In fact, according to a recent study by Families USA, the prices charged by Medicare drug plans are rising at more than twice the rate of overall inflation.
01.09.2007	January 10, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio issued the following statement about President Bush's proposal to escalate the war in Iraq by sending more combat troops to Iraq: "Tonight, the president announced his latest strategy for victory in Iraq. This announcement comes just over a year after he released his last strategy for victory in Iraq, in November 2005. Tonight, the president was eager to appear to be changing course in Iraq in response to the concerns of the American people. However, his new proposal is anything but -- it's a status quo, more of the same, stay the course plan. "This 'stay the course' strategy is clearly not working. In the last year, the violence in Iraq has intensified, the political situation is more volatile and deteriorates by the day, and the civil war is expanding. The president has proposed benchmarks for the Iraqi government, but since the Iraqi government has ignored past commitments and there are no consequences for failure, these benchmarks are meaningless. "It is past time to end the open-ended commitment the president has made in Iraq. "The U.S. military cannot impose freedom, security, and unity in Iraq. They cannot force the Sunnis, Shia, and Kurds to put aside their 1,400-year-old conflict. Only the Iraqis can. The U.S. military should not be forced to remain in Iraq essentially as an army for one side of a civil war. Given the president's pledge of unlimited support, Iraqi politicians and security forces will continue to fail to take the necessary steps to solve their differences, establish an effective and inclusive government, end sectarian violence, and create a secure and prosperous society. "The president and his allies justify the continuing U.S. presence in Iraq by claiming that if we don't fight there, we'll have to fight here at home. However, the Iraqi Sunni rejectionists, Saddamists, and nationalist Shias, who combined make up the vast bulk of the insurgents and militias committing violence in Iraq, just want U.S. military forces out of their own country. They have no interest in attacking the U.S. homeland. "It is also misleading to say that if the U.S. leaves, Osama bin Laden will take control of Iraq. There is no chance that the Shias and the Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of Iraq's population, will allow foreign terrorist elements to take control of the country. Even the majority of the Sunnis have grown tired of foreign terrorists operating in Iraq. "Even worse, the president will withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan to send to Iraq, despite a resurgence of the Taliban and al Qaeda, the true architects of 9/11. "As I said a year ago, instead of an open-ended commitment, we should announce a timeline for bringing our troops home over the next six to 12 months. The Bush administration has always set timelines for political developments in Iraq, arguing they were necessary to focus the energy of Iraq's leaders and to force compromises. We need to do the same on the military side. "In the interim, front-line combat positions in Iraqi cities and towns should be manned by Iraqis, not U.S. troops. The training and equipping of Iraqi security forces should be accelerated and the sectarian balance should be improved. The U.S. must renounce any interest in constructing permanent bases in Iraq, accelerate reconstruction spending and grant the bulk of reconstruction contracts to local companies employing Iraqis. "The U.S. must also engage in robust diplomacy with all factions in Iraq, except the foreign terrorists and domestic al-Qaeda elements, and work with Iraq's neighbors in an effort to bring about political reconciliation among Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds. "Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The threat from WMDs in Iraq is non-existent. Arguably, the war that Congress authorized has been won. It is time to turn over control of the country to the Iraqis to build their own future, and bring our troops home. "With the abject failure of the administration to formulate a new policy in Iraq, the responsibility falls to Congress to stop its ill-conceived escalation of the war."
01.08.2007	January 9, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today for a bill to implement the recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission, which he has been urging since the Commission's report was published in 2004. The bill will enhance homeland security at airports, in our airways, and in our ports, and will allow our first responders to better communicate with one another. The House passed the bill this evening by a vote of 299 to 128. "One of my highest priorities has been to implement the common-sense recommendations of the 9/11 Commission," DeFazio said. "Improving explosive detection at airports, scanning containers before they reach our ports, and inspecting cargo on our airplanes will go a long way toward securing our nation against an attack. Today's legislation will also help our first responders communicate with one another in an emergency, improving rescue efforts and helping keep Americans safer." The bill includes a number of long-overdue steps to substantially improve homeland security, including: - Funding to meet the highest priority need of our police, fire, and other emergency first responders for state-of-the-art interoperable communications equipment. - Accelerating the installation of in-line explosive detection systems for checked baggage at the nation's airports and provides a dedicated $1 billion funding stream. - Creating a Checkpoint Screening Security Fund that will provide $250 million to improve explosive detection systems at passenger checkpoints at the nation's airports. - Phasing in a requirement for 100 percent inspection scanning of U.S.-bound shipping containers at foreign ports over the next five years. - Creates an Office of Appeals and Redress to assist passengers who are wrongly delayed or prohibited from boarding a flight. - Restoring the rights and protections for TSA employees and whistleblowers. In addition, the bill would alter the formula for key Homeland Security grant programs to ensure the majority of the funds it distributes is based on risk. The current formula has resulted in low-population states like Wyoming receiving more Homeland Security funds on a per capita basis than high threat areas like New York City or Washington, DC. The change in formula reflects a 9/11 Commission recommendation that the formula for fund allocation be based almost entirely on risk. The legislation also included measures to improve existing programs to prevent the proliferation of WMDs and to establish a more robust Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board.
01.08.2007	SPEECH OF HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO OF OREGON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES TUESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2007 Mr. DeFAZIO: Madam Speaker, tomorrow the President will announce he has yet another new strategy for victory in Iraq. This strategy will come just over a year after he released his last strategy for victory in Iraq, which was completed in November 2005. According to the Brookings Institution's Iraq Index, since the President released his last plan, more than 900 U.S. troops have been killed in Iraq, more than 2,200 Iraqi police and military forces have also been killed. The number of Iraqi civilians killed has risen from 1,778 in January 2006 to nearly 3,300 in December 2006. The number of multiple fatality bombings has increased from 41 in November 2005 to 69 in December 2006. In other words, by virtually every measure, the violence in Iraq is worse this year than last year, the political situation is more volatile and deteriorating by the day and the civil war is expanding. After nearly four years, after more than 3,000 U.S troops have been killed, after more than 22,500 U.S. troops have been injured--nearly half of whom have been injured severely enough that they cannot return to duty--and after more than $300 billion of U.S. taxpayers' money has been spent with no benefit to U.S. national security and with little progress toward stabilizing Iraq, what is the President's response? All indications are that he will propose to compound the failure by escalating the war, putting tens of thousands of more American lives at risk, and borrowing tens or hundreds of billions of dollars more in order to prosecute a war that cannot be won militarily. It is past time to end the open-ended commitment the President has made in Iraq. Reportedly the President will propose benchmarks the Iraqi government must achieve, but since there will be no consequences if the Iraqis fail, these benchmarks are meaningless. The Iraqi government has failed to follow through on previous commitments, yet the President's response has only been to express continuing support for the Iraqi Prime Minister. His proposal this week will likely be more of the same. As long as the U.S. military remains stuck with the President's pledge of unlimited support, Iraqi politicians and security forces will use the U.S. presence as a crutch and will fail to take the necessary steps to solve their differences, establish an effective and inclusive government, end sectarian violence, and create a secure and prosperous society. Democracy and stability cannot be imposed on unwilling parties. As New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman said recently on Meet the Press, a stable, pluralistic democracy in Iraq is everyone's second choice except ours. The Shias want power for themselves. The Sunnis want power. And the Kurds want power and independence. What they don't want to do is share that power, and we can't make them. Being confronted with the reality of a U.S. withdrawal should force the Iraqi factions to reach the political compromises necessary to move their country forward. If not, there is no reason to prolong the U.S. involvement in Iraq if we want a stable country more than the Iraqi people and their elected leaders do. The U.S. cannot impose freedom, security, and unity in Iraq by force. Those worthy goals can only be achieved by the Iraqi people themselves, which will only happen when the Iraqi people and their leaders decide to put aside their sectarian differences. The U.S. cannot force Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds to make peace or to act for the common good. They have been in conflict for l,400 years. Nor should the U.S. military be forced to remain in Iraq essentially as an army for one side of a civil war. The U.S. military cannot solve the sectarian violence and the lack of political reconciliation in Iraq. Only the Iraqis can. In a minute, I will address where I believe we need to go from here. But, before that, I want to briefly review how we got into Iraq and how the Bush administration's many mistakes have brought us to the disaster we face today. The list of the Bush administration's failures with respect to Iraq is long and well-known. But it bears repeating, particularly since the administration may be making similar ones with respect to Iran. The administration manipulated, misrepresented and in some cases outright lied about the intelligence on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction programs and non-existent ties to al-Qaeda in order to build support in Congress and among the public for the war. The administration went in with too few troops to successfully carry out the mission. The administration went in with few real allies. The administration went in with no exit strategy. The administration failed to stop the rampant looting in the wake of Saddam Hussein's ousting, which set back recovery and reconstruction. The administration failed to understand the ethnic tensions that were unleashed in Iraq. The administration failed to understand the ethnic power bases in Iraq. The administration relied on Iraqi exiles with no support among the Iraqi people. The administration did not turn over authority to Iraqis early on. Instead, they stood up the Coalition Provision Authority to run Iraq, which cemented in the minds of the Iraqis that U.S. forces were an occupying power. The administration largely used inexperienced political hacks to run the CPA rather than experienced foreign service-types or individuals with subject matter expertise. The administration disbanded the Iraqi army, which added to the security problems by creating a large pool of unemployed, armed, and alienated Iraqis. The administration purged the Iraqi government of all Baath party members, even low-level Baathists, which continues to hamper the delivery of even basic government services to Iraqis since the bureaucracy has basically been created from scratch. The administration failed to conduct proper oversight of reconstruction resulting in waste, fraud, and abuse, poor contractor performance and Iraqi expectations for progress not being met. This is not an exhaustive list, but it highlights some major failures that have contributed to the chaos in Iraq. The administration claims that what has happened in Iraq was unforeseeable. In reality, many critics predicted the problems in Iraq. The administration just chose to ignore those who raised concerns. The problems in Iraq are actually worse than predicted because of the administration's blunders. The administration ignored the doctrine created by its own Secretary of State Colin Powell when he was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The ``Powell doctrine'' says that the U.S. should go to war only as a last resort and then only with overwhelming force. In his article ``U.S. Forces: Challenges Ahead'' in Foreign Affairs in 1992-93 Powell posed a number of questions to be asked by U.S. policymakers before launching a war. Is a vital national security interest threatened? Do we have a clear, attainable objective? Have the risks and costs been fully and frankly analyzed? Have all other non-violent policy means been exhausted? Is there a plausible exit strategy? Have the consequences been fully considered? Is the action supported by the American people? Does the U.S. have broad international support? The answer to these questions in the case of the Iraq war is no. But the administration went ahead anyway and Powell put aside any misgivings he may have had and publicly supported it. The administration ignored General Eric Shinseki, then the head of the Army, who testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee on February 25, 2003, that the administration's plans failed to include an adequate number of troops. He said, ``I would say that what's been mobilized to this point--something on the order of several hundred thousand soldiers are probably, you know, a figure that would be required. We're talking about post-hostilities control over a piece of geography that's fairly significant, with the kinds of ethnic tensions that could lead to other problems.'' Secretary Rumsfeld and his deputy, Paul Wolfowitz, called Shinseki's estimate "far off the mark" and "wildly off the mark." Wolfowitz said it would be "hard to believe" more troops would be required for post-war Iraq than to remove Saddam Hussein from power. It may have been hard for an ideologue like Mr. Wolfowitz to believe, but it wasn't hard for a military professional like General Shinseki to envision. Many Members of Congress also raised concerns. I personally wrote to the President on September 5, 2002. I challenged the supposed threat posed by Iraq's assumed WMD programs. I raised questions about more pressing national security challenges like North Korea and Iran. I raised questions about the impact the war would have on U.S. relations with allies and our reputation in the world. I posed questions about what the impact of a long-term occupation of Iraq by U.S. forces. I asked about the impact of diverting military and intelligence resources to Iraq from the battle against al-Qaeda in Afghanistan. And I raised concerns about the economic impact and the impact on U.S. taxpayers from the war. The administration dismissed the concerns and warnings of critics like me and launched this ill-advised war. I voted against it. We're forty-six months into the war, where do we go from here? The President apparently believes that the U.S. needs to escalate the conflict in Iraq by sending 30,000 or more additional troops to Iraq. I think that is a mistake. It will not bring stability to Iraq, and I oppose it and will vote against it if given the opportunity. Just as importantly, the President's chief military advisors oppose it. As General John Abizaid, then the head of all U.S. forces in the Middle East, testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on November 15, 2006, ``I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the core commander, General Dempsey, we all talked together. And I said, in your professional opinion, if we were to bring in more American Troops now, does it add considerably to our ability to achieve success in Iraq? And they all said no. And the reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It is easy for the Iraqis to rely upon to us do this work. I believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own future.'' The President didn't like what he heard, which may be why General Abizaid is expected to retire this March. As a Lebanese-American who is fluent in Arabic, his understanding of the region will be greatly missed. General Casey has also been removed as commander of U.S. forces in Iraq. Shinseki, Abizaid, Casey. There is a pattern here of the Bush administration ignoring the advice of military leaders and firing them when they don't tell the President what he wants to hear. Let me be clear, I do not believe there is any level of U.S. troops that could stabilize Iraq at this point. But, I think it is particularly offensive that the President is reportedly planning to put 30,000 additional U.S. lives at risk when that escalation is virtually certain to have little or no impact on the violence in Iraq. There might be a small, temporary reduction in the chaos in Iraq, but the escalation will not solve the deep and underlying political conflicts that are preventing a long-term resolution to the violence in Iraq. The President desperately wants to look like he's trying something new in Iraq in response to the concerns of the American people, but really he's just repeating the same mistakes and compounding previous failures. The administration is trying to prolong the U.S. involvement in Iraq in order to perpetuate the fallacy that the President's original vision for a democratic, pro-U.S., capitalistic, pluralistic Iraq is still achievable. It is not. The American Enterprise Institute military escalation plan for Iraq, which is the basis for the President's proposals, has a timeline of 18-24 months, conveniently enough leaving the mess in Iraq for the next President, meaning President Bush would never have to admit his policies in Iraq have been a failure but at a very steep cost to our troops taxpayers. The administration already increased the number of U.S. troops in Baghdad this summer and has occasionally increased the number of troops throughout Iraq, yet the violence against our troops and Iraqi security forces and civilians continues to increase. Following the influx of troops this summer in Operation Forward Together, the violence in Iraq actually increased. Weekly attacks increased by 15 percent while the number of Iraqi civilian casualties increased by 51 percent. Based on historical analysis, counterinsurgency experts estimate it takes around 20 U.S. troops per 1,000 inhabitants to successfully fight a counterinsurgency. To achieve that ratio in Baghdad alone would require 120,000 troops. Even with the escalation proposed by the President, we'd only have around 40,000 troops in Baghdad. For all of Iraq, it would require 500,000 troops. We only have around 140,000 there today. General Shinseki and others based their original recommendation for several hundred thousand troops on this historical analysis. But, the time in which a large number of forces could stabilize Iraq has long since passed. The bottom line is that a proposal to increase U.S. troop levels in Baghdad or Iraq more generally by 30,000 troops in not a serious effort to restore stability to Iraq. Essentially, the President is proposing to put more lives at risk with little or no chance of success. The President and his allies justify the continuing U.S. presence in Iraq by claiming that if we don't fight there, we'll have to fight here at home. However, the Iraqi Sunni rejectionists, Saddamists, and nationalist Shias, who combined make up the vast bulk of the insurgents and militias committing violence in Iraq, have no interest in attacking the U.S. homeland. They just want U.S. military forces out of their own country. They have no designs on our country. So it is misleading, at best, to argue that if we don't fight there, we will fight them in the streets of the United States. It is also misleading to pretend that if the U.S. leaves that somehow Osama bin Laden will take control of Iraq. There is no chance that the Shias and Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of the population in Iraq, will allow foreign terrorist elements to take over the country. Even the majority of the Sunnis have grown tired of foreign terrorists operating in Iraq. A better strategy is to announce a timeline for bringing our troops home over the next 6 months to a year. The administration has always set timelines for political developments in Iraq--for elections, for the drafting of the constitution etc. The administration argued such timelines were necessary to focus the energy of Iraq's leaders and to force compromises. We need to do the same on the military side. In the interim, I have also proposed that U.S. troops be removed from front line combat positions in Iraqi cities and towns, turning over daily security patrols, interactions with citizens, and any offensive security actions to the Iraqis themselves. The training and equipping of Iraqi security forces should be accelerated and the sectarian balance must be improved. The U.S. must renounce any U.S. interest in constructing permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq. It is also important to accelerate reconstruction spending and grant the bulk of reconstruction contracts to local companies employing Iraqis rather than multinational corporations, whom have proven inefficient, inflexible, sometimes fraudulent and have even imported workers rather than employing Iraqis. The U.S. embassy in Baghdad should also be reduced to normal size and authority rather than establishing one of the largest embassies in the world. And, the U.S. must engage in robust diplomacy with all factions in Iraq, except the foreign terrorists and domestic al-Qaeda elements, and work with Iraq's neighbors in an effort to bring about political reconciliation among Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds. Our troops have done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is dead. His allies are on the run or in prison. The threat from WMDs in Iraq is nonexistent. Arguably, the war that Congress authorized has been won. Our troops should come home. Congress did not authorize U.S. troops to referee a civil war in Iraq.
01.04.2007	January 4, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio and several other representatives and Senators today introduced legislation in the House and Senate that would provide $60.4 million in disaster aid for the commercial salmon fishers and communities hard hit by the virtual closure of the coastal salmon fishing season. They also sent a letter to House and Senate leadership requesting their assistance in getting the disaster aid via any legislative vehicle possible. "There is no question that salmon fishers have suffered immensely from the widespread shutdown of this year's fishing season," DeFazio said. "The Secretary of Commerce declared a commercial fishery disaster almost five months ago. It is past time for Congress to provide disaster assistance so that these families can pay their bills and put food on the table. We are asking congressional leadership to work with us to ensure this important legislation is passed, and passed immediately. Congress must not continue to delay aid." Cosponsoring the Senate bill were U.S. Senators Ron Wyden and Gordon Smith of Oregon and U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer of California. Along with DeFazio, cosponsors of the House bill were Oregon Representatives Darlene Hooley and David Wu, and California Representatives Mike Thompson, Sam Farr, Lynn Woolsey, Lois Capps, Anna Eshoo, Tom Lantos, Zoe Lofgren, and Doris Matsui. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez declared a fishery disaster last August after the salmon fishing season suffered unprecedented and widespread closures, curtailing the ability of many in the commercial salmon fishing community to earn a living. Early salmon run data indicate that the fishing season will likely remain closed for the 2007 season, reinforcing the need to pass disaster aid legislation. The text of the letter to House and Senate leaders follows: January 4, 2007 The Honorable Harry Reid Senate Majority Leader S-221 Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H-204 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Senate Minority Leader S-208 Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable John A. Boehner Republican Leader H-107 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Senate Majority Leader Reid, Senate Minority Leader McConnell, Speaker Pelosi, and Republican Leader Boehner: We request your assistance as quickly as possible in appropriating $60.4 million in disaster aid to commercial salmon fishermen, tribes and related businesses affected by the commercial fishery failure of 2006 – the largest commercial salmon fishery disaster in U.S. history. Last year, the Department of Commerce all but eliminated the commercial salmon fishing season for more than 1,000 commercial salmon fishermen in California and Oregon due to poor salmon returns along the Klamath River. Early salmon return data indicate that fishing will likely remain closed for the 2007 season, further compounding the economic impact to our fishing communities. The impact upon the coastal areas dependent upon this industry has been devastating. Despite the Secretary of Commerce declaring a commercial fishery failure on August 10, 2006 and personally making calls to House and Senate Appropriations Committee chairmen, the 109th Congress was unable to appropriate funds before adjournment. Issuing these disaster funds is a top priority for our constituents and is supported by the governors of Washington, Oregon and California, our county boards of supervisors, the Klamath Water Users Association and the California Chamber of Commerce. We are also steadfastly committed to instituting comprehensive legislation that will restore the Klamath River basin so commercial salmon fishermen, tribes, farmers and related businesses do not have to suffer these types of disasters again. We look forward to working with you and your staff to get these necessary disaster funds appropriated as quickly as possible through a Continuing Resolution, or any other legislative vehicle. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Ron Wyden U.S. Senator Gordon Smith U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer U.S. Senator Mike Thompson Member of Congress Sam Farr Member of Congress Lynn Woolsey Member of Congress Lois Capps Member of Congress Anna Eshoo Member of Congress Tom Lantos Member of Congress Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Doris Matsui Member of Congress
01.04.2007	DeFazio, Walden introduce bill to reauthorize successful "county payments" program January 4, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced the introduction of H.R. 17, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2007, legislation that would reauthorize the successful "county payments" law for seven more years. Of Oregon’s 36 counties, 33 received payments through the program totaling over $273 million last year. Because of the large amount of timber historically harvested from federal lands in Oregon, Oregon counties have received significant payments from the funding formula, with the Fourth and Second Districts receiving the most federal investment respectively. "When we first introduced this idea several years ago, the biggest obstacle to the passage of county payments legislation was opposition from the timber industry and environmental groups," DeFazio said. "We sure have come a long way. Organizations from the farthest ends of the spectrum have come together to support this program in a model partnership among local, state and federal interests. Today, the biggest obstacles we face are ever-tightening budgets and growing federal deficits. So we must now redouble our efforts in hand with this unique coalition to reauthorize this legislation. It is the lifeblood of rural counties across America, who serve everyday as stewards of our federal lands." “Over one hundred years ago, the federal government made a commitment to rural counties, and we intend to see that it maintains it,” Walden said. “Together with county and association leaders from across the country and many of our colleagues, Congressman DeFazio and I have led a partnership of education about how vital the county payments program is. We were deeply disappointed that all our efforts last year failed to reauthorize and fully fund the program to replace the funds lost by the decline in federal timber harvest. Since first introducing this legislation together two years ago, we’ve successfully educated both sides of the aisle about the critical nature of this program to rural communities in Oregon and throughout the country. Awareness of this importance is now very high, and it’s time for members of Congress to unite behind a revenue stream to fully fund the program. There is no more important issue to the health of rural counties.” Before passage of the county payments law, Oregon counties were receiving payments as the result of 1908 and 1937 laws specifying that the government share 25 percent of U.S. Forest Service (USFS) receipts and 50 percent of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) receipts with counties in any state that hosts Federal land from which timber is cut. These payments had been used to help finance rural schools and roads. Toward the mid-to-late-nineties, however, the principal source of those revenues, federal timber sales, declined by over 70 percent nationwide. Consequently, the corresponding revenues shared with rural counties throughout the country declined precipitously, hurting school and transportation funding. In 2000, legislation to remedy this imbalance was enacted into law, establishing a six-year payment formula for counties that receive revenue-sharing payments for USFS and BLM lands. The formula established a stable source of revenue, to be used for education, roads and county services in rural areas. The safety net amount was based on historical timber receipts. If counties elect to use funding for projects on public lands, the projects must be developed by consensus and approved by a Resource Advisory Committee (RAC), a group designed to ensure expanded economic activity for the resource-based communities benefit from this legislation. RACs are made up of individuals from the local area dedicated to directing a portion of the funds for projects in their respective regions. A county may also choose to use funds for search and rescue, community service work camps, easement purchases, forest-related education opportunities, fire prevention, and community forestry. Click here for a PDF copy of a letter Congressmen DeFazio and Walden sent to leaders of the Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees urging them to discharge H.R. 17 as soon as possible.
01.03.2007	January 4, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) introduced legislation that would enable Del Norte County to receive the federal funds needed to improve the Del Norte County Airport without raising matching funds. The legislation follows up on a commitment made by DeFazio and Thompson at meetings held in Crescent City and Brookings, Oregon last fall, to help with improvements to the regional airport. Local officials have long expressed their concern that they are not able to meet the 10 percent match requirement for federal grant funds. The Del Norte County Airport is a regional facility used by residents of Del Norte and Curry Counties. “This bill makes sure that counties like Del Norte aren’t disadvantaged by their size or economic factors when trying to improve the airports their citizens rely on,” said Thompson. “Rural areas like the North Coast can’t be expected to raise the type of funds that cities like San Francisco or LA can, but that doesn’t mean they shouldn’t get the assistance for improving their airports. Our legislation will make sure Del Norte County Airport gets the funding it needs to build a new terminal and make runway improvements.” "Access to air service is essential in rural areas to connect individuals and to allow for economic development," DeFazio said. "I am pleased to support this legislation, which will help the Del Norte County Airport overcome the current barriers to federal funding and improve air service for residents of Del Norte and Curry Counties." Specifically, the bill waives the federal grant matching requirements for rural municipalities with certain economic factors, such as per capita income and unemployment rate. These municipalities can qualify for airport improvement funds without matching 10 percent of the grant amount. Thompson and DeFazio wrote this legislation because it is often extremely difficult for counties like Del Norte to raise the matching funds, which bars them from receiving the much-needed transportation grants. "This legislation puts Del Norte County on the right path,” said Del Norte County Supervisor Martha McClure. “It will not only save the county money, but it will, more importantly, save us time - we'll be able to begin the project without having to delay to raise the funds. It will be miraculous!" Background: Del Norte County Airport is designated as an Essential Air Service (EAS) airport because it is small and in a rural area. All EAS airports are eligible for Airport Improvement Program grants from the federal government. However, under current law, EAS airports cannot receive the federal grants unless they match 10 percent of the grant. DeFazio and Thompson’s bill would exempt all EAS airports in “economically disadvantaged” communities from the matching requirement. The Economic Development Administration defines an “economically disadvantaged” community as one where the unemployment rate for the last 2 years is at least 1 percent greater than the national average unemployment rate or capital income is 80 percent or less of the national average per capital income. DeFazio and Thompson’s bill also provides exemption to airports that have special needs as a result of severe short or long-term conditions, such as a military base closure or a natural disaster.
01.02.2007	January 2, 2007Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio sent a letter last week to the Secretary of the Interior urging him to strongly reconsider a proposal that would increase fees at Crater Lake National Park and Lava Beds National Monument. Under the proposal, entrance fees at Crater Lake would double, from $10 to $20, and fees at Lava Beds would increase from $10 to $15. While visitation to national parks has been decreasing nationwide, Crater Lake National Park has bucked the trend, with its attendance holding steady for the past 10 years. Park officials attribute the steady visitation at Crater Lake to regular return visits by Oregonians. "It doesn’t make sense to increase park fees while national parks are struggling to attract visitors," DeFazio said. "I am concerned that the increase in fees at Crater Lake will discourage regular visits by Oregon families." "I agree that the national park system is in need of additional funding, but raising fees for park visitors will only drive visitors away. Instead, the Department of the Interior should raise the money it needs to improve the park system by collecting the royalties that oil companies owe the United States." The text of the letter is below. December 29, 2006 The Honorable Dirk Kempthorne Secretary of the Interior United States Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240-0001 Dear Secretary Kempthorne, I was disturbed by recent reports that the US Park Service is proposing to double fees at Crater Lake National Park and increase fees at Lava Beds National Monument. I strongly urge you to reconsider this proposal. Crater Lake National Park has been bucking the trend of declining national park visitation. Park officials attribute the steady visitation at Crater Lake to regular return visits by Oregonians. I am concerned that the doubling of fees will deter regular trips by Oregon families and Crater Lake will join the parade of national parks experiencing declining visitation. I have similar concerns with increased fees at the Lava Beds National Monument. A November Los Angeles Times article reporting on declining National Park visitation highlighted the Superintendent at Lava Beds National Monument bemoaning the lack of visitors. Surveys on visitation have found that 78% of Latinos said they didn't visit national parks because they are too expensive. It is difficult to comprehend how increasing fees promotes visitation and increase revenue for park units or the system at large. It simply defies the basic economic laws of supply and demand. I am addressing my concerns to you because I believe the proposed fee increase represents the larger issue of misplaced priorities within your Department. For the past several years, Congress has provided funding above and beyond the President's request to address the maintenance backlog throughout our national park system. I appreciate that your budget is subject to review and amendment by the Office of Management and Budget, however, I would hope that the FY08 budget realistically reflects the unmet needs of the national park system and requests additional general funds from the Congress. I am sure we agree that our national park system is in great need of additional funding but I believe these fee increases will be counter-productive. Beyond my concerns regarding park funding, there is an issue of social equity at play. On the one hand the Park Service is proposing to double fees paid by hard-working taxpayers to use their public lands. Meanwhile, your Department is abandoning efforts to collect royalties from oil companies who are flush in profits. If the same vigor used to justify fee increases was put towards collecting the appropriate royalties from oil companies the Department and taxpayer might be better off. As the new Congress convenes, I intend to work with the new Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources to pursue oversight on these issues and highlight these misplaced priorities. Thank you, in advance, for your consideration of my views and I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, /s/ PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress
01.01.2007	Evaluation of Tunnel ConditionsCentral Oregon and Pacific Railroad, Coos Bay Subdivision On Wednesday, October 9, 2007, a reconnaissance was conducted by a team of Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and Federal Highway Administration engineers to observe conditions in Tunnels 13, 15, and 18 on the Coos Bay Subdivision of the Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad (CORP). Tunnels 13, 15, and 18 had been removed from service by CORP, and the Coos Bay Subdivision, south of Tunnel 13, is currently embargoed for all traffic. The reconnaissance was conducted by walking through each tunnel from portal to portal, with illumination provided by flood lights mounted in the bed of a highway-rail truck and powered by a portable generator. Conditions observed in the tunnels were compared to the condition descriptors and general condition ratings contained in the report prepared by Shannon and Wilson between March 30 and July 9, 2007, and furnished to FRA by CORP. The team evaluation substantially validates the findings documented in the Shannon and Wilson report. It should be noted that some conditions have deteriorated even further during the time since the report was prepared, partly due to the passage of time, and partly because of the onset of the wet season in Oregon in the early fall of 2007. These tunnels were generally built in the 1880's, and rebuilt to their present configuration around 1914, using drill and blast methods common in that era. Tunnel lining construction includes unlined "bald" rock, timber sets with timber lagging, steel sets with timber lagging, shotcrete over timber or steel sets, and finally, cast-in-place concrete at both portals of Tunnels 13 and 15, and the south portal of Tunnel 18. Timber sets are constructed of 10" wide by 14" deep solid sawn cedar timbers. These sets are spaced on 48" nominal centers in Tunnels 13 and 18, and on 18" nominal centers in Tunnel 15. Voids between the timber liner and the surrounding rock were filled with cordwood packing. The predominant problems observed were decay of the untreated cedar timbers, lagging, and footing blocks, especially in the wetter areas of the tunnels. This deterioration has resulted in differential settlement of the timber sets leading to shifting and occasional loss of the horizontal struts between adjacent sets. In addition, the lower 3-4 feet of many of the timber set posts sounds hollow or decayed when struck with a hammer, especially in locations where the footing blocks are clearly decayed or crushing. In a few of the wetter areas, severe decay of the caps and rafter timbers has destroyed the structural integrity of the lining sets. Decay, and subsequent loss of the cordwood packing, has produced a void above or behind the lagging, thereby providing weathering or blocking rock room to free-fall, striking the lagging. In areas where the timber sets and lagging have been covered with a nonstructural shotcrete veneer, evaluation of the existing condition is not possible, although it is suspected that trapped moisture is probably exacerbating the decay of surrounding timber components. In the unlined sections, there is evidence that minor, periodic rock-falls have occurred. General Tunnel Observations The tunnel bores all appear to have been blasted using the methods of the day, which was to angle drill from the front face and blast. It is doubtful that any type of technique was used to control blast pressures and limit overbreak. Even with modern controlled blasting techniques, drilling and shooting tunnel bores results in some undesirable over- break. The overbreak on the three tunnels has resulted in an oversized bore with irregular pockets and voids. Overbreak from blasting has fractured some of the in-place rock. Thus, the fractured rock has to be supported, or it will continually ravel and fall out. Several areas in these tunnels had cordwood or stone packing as an effort to support the tunnel ceilings and walls. The overbroken voids are particularly difficult to support using these methods. All of the tunnels utilized some arch segmental timber sets and lagging for support. The timber set internal dimensions are approximately 20 feet to the spring line and approximately 10 feet to the crown. Many of the timber set posts are 10 x 14-inch settings on wood blocks. The blocks appear to be cut from the post material and then laid on their side. The original timber set configuration had no structural capability for carrying lateral earth pressure loads from the tunnel walls. The lagging appears to be rough-cut 2 x 10-inch lumber, but it was not measured during the reconnaissance so these dimensions may not be accurate. All tunnels have intermittent water seepage areas. Detailed observations and conclusions for each of the three tunnels are as follows: Tunnel 13; Milepost (MP) 669.47 to MP 669.94; length 2,489 feet; near Mapleton, Oregon. The portal had a concrete lining that was dated 1914 and extended approximately 65 feet back. In several locations, there are signs of overblasting and large voids in between the timber lagging. Cordwood packing is visible in between the timber lagging and the tunnel rock wall and ceiling face. There are intermittent water seepage areas in this tunnel. Differential weathering was noted in the tunnel walls. There are areas that have rock debris lying on top of the timber sets. In several locations, rock debris can fall through, or past, rotten timber. The timber set support blocks have rotted in several locations, allowing the timber sets to settle and pull away from the ceiling. In turn, the unsupported ceiling sections have released sandstone rock fragments ranging from gravel- to bolder-size (2 to 14 inches in diameter). Sagging timber sets have also kicked out from the tunnel walls, allowing sandstone rock fragments from gravel- to bolder-size to fall out of the excavated walls and place a thrust load on the timber set and lagging. The tunnel had station markings on the walls from Station 0+00 to 3+00. Shotcrete had been placed, apparently as a past repair. The shotcrete condition looked good. At Station 6+00, a vertical set post is cracked from the footing up (at least 3 feet). This appeared to be an overstress condition. There is a void behind the timber set. From Station 14+00 to 16+00, approximately, the timber sets in the ceiling are bowed downward, apparently from overstress. The timber set ceiling support is discontinuous, and there is evidence that rock blocks have dropped out of the ceiling. At Station 23+40, timber sets have rotted and fallen down. There is rock debris perched on top of the timber sets, and it is a rock-fall hazard. The Shannon and Wilson report rate this area as a Repair Level 2, but subsequent deterioration would most likely cause it to be downgraded to Repair Level 1. This tunnel has several locations that need immediate lining support repairs. There is a high risk of tunnel support failure and rock-fall hazard to train and maintenance traffic. Tunnel 15; length 2,148 feet; near Florence, Oregon. The north portal had a concrete lining that was dated 1914 and extended approximately 40 feet back. In general, the sandstone rock was softer than that of Tunnel 13. The tunnel has more seepage water, also. The rock in this area may have been slightly weakened by water saturation. This tunnel has extensive wood rot and questionable tunnel-wall and ceiling support. Several repairs have been performed, including installation of a concrete footing for timber set support. There are signs of overblasting star bursts in the tunnel walls and voids between the timber lagging and the rock face. There is potential for fractured rock to fall from these voids. At Station 14+40, the timber sets are very rotten and have sagged. There is approximately ¾ of a yard of rock debris perched on the rotten wood. This material will fall down from the ceiling in the very near future. There is a high concern that rotten timber sets and lagging could fall into tunnel. There is a high risk of tunnel support failure and some risk of rock-fall hazard to train and maintenance traffic. Tunnel 18; MP 734.48 to MP 734.77; length 1,532 feet; near Florence, Oregon, off of Five Mile Creek Road. The north portal had a concrete lining that was dated 1914 and extended approximately 5 feet back. Some past shotcreting and steel sets have been installed in this tunnel. In some areas, the timber sets are closely spaced, indicating that during the original design and construction weak sandstone rock was recognized. The rock in this tunnel is the weakest of the three. The joints appear to be tighter, but the rock exhibits more of a soil character and may tend to slough. There are locations where the lagging has fallen out and the rock face is exposed. At Station 10+80, there is a section of the timber sets where they have apparently rotted at their bases and then slid off their footings. The timber sets have then kicked out approximately 2 feet from their original position. The weak sandstone needs good ceiling and sidewall support, as the tunnel bore faces have weathered over the years and may be exerting more vertical and lateral pressures than where originally anticipated. At the same time, the strength of the timber sets has diminished over the years. The fact that a section of the timber sets has kicked out supports these concerns. More timber sets could kick out, which is a definite hazard to train and maintenance traffic. Summary and Conclusions The arch segmental timber sets and lagging in these tunnels have reached the end of their useful life and can no longer provide adequate support. As a result, several locations within each of the three tunnels have unsafe conditions that require repair. It is anticipated that more unsafe conditions will develop in the near future as the tunnel support continues to rot. The existing unsafe conditions include ceiling and wall rock- fall, rock debris fall, timber set and lagging instability, and vertical timber set kick out. These tunnels are hazardous to train traffic and maintenance operations. Any future inspection or maintenance should be done with great care, with an understanding of the potential hazards. The original timber set design has severe limitations in its ability to resist lateral earth and rock loads. In addition, the timber sets are susceptible to fire. The team evaluation substantially validates the findings documented in the Shannon and Wilson report. It should be noted that some conditions have deteriorated even further during the time since the report was prepared, partly due to the passage of time, and partly because of the onset of the wet season in Oregon in the early fall of 2007. In summary, FRA concurs with the recommendations made in the Shannon and Wilson report, that all three tunnels need immediate repairs to permit the safe resumption of railroad operations. The reconnaissance was not intended to review all of the repair recommendations that were made in the Shannon and Wilson report. All tunnel dimensions provided in this memorandum are approximate and should not be used for design or cost estimating. Signed: Gordon A. Davids, P.E. Chief Engineer–Structures Office of Safety Assurance and Compliance Federal Railroad Administration
12.28.2006	December 29, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today announced plans to reintroduce legislation to abolish the Selective Service System (SSS) and put it in "deep standby" status soon after the 110th Congress convenes in January 2007. Deep standby would suspend draft registration, reduce a significant portion of SSS staff, and disband the SSS boards. DeFazio's announcement comes in the wake of recent revelations that the SSS plans to conduct a "readiness exercise" for the system by 2009, including tests for: randomly choosing military draftees by birth date and notifying those chosen, the network of appeals boards, and dealing with conscientious objectors and those seeking deferments. The test amounts to a "mock" draft. DeFazio also announced his intention to offer an amendment during the fiscal year 2008 appropriations process to prohibit the SSS from carrying out this exercise. "Our all-volunteer military is the best in the world," DeFazio said. "As the Pentagon, the president and the House of Representatives have agreed, there is no military or national security imperative to reinstate the draft. The current selective service infrastructure is obsolete and unnecessary. Taxpayers should not be forced to continue funding it. "If our country truly faced a national emergency that threatened our way of life, I have no doubt that citizens would voluntarily mobilize to protect it. American citizens can be mobilized just as effectively and at less cost if we get rid of the existing selective service infrastructure." DeFazio has a long history of opposition to the SSS on grounds of fiscal responsibility as well as a desire to protect personal liberties, which are threatened when the government is able to mandate military service. He first introduced legislation to abolish the SSS in 1990 and has reintroduced it in several subsequent sessions of Congress. In 1995, DeFazio offered an amendment on the House floor to remove funding from the SSS. The amendment was defeated. Taxpayers will spend $25 million this year, and have spent more than $650 million since 1980, on the increasingly obsolete system. Going to deep standby could save taxpayers more than $20 million a year, plus the cost of running the "mock" draft planned for 2009. DeFazio points out that the SSS is not necessary for our national security or military readiness. A 1993 report by the Secretary of Defense noted, "Peacetime draft registration could be suspended with no effect on military mobilization requirements, little effect on the time it would take to mobilize, and no measurable effect on military recruitment." If a mass mobilization were necessary, it could be accomplished with an SSS that is in deep standby. In fact, the SSS has already developed a standby system that would provide for a rapid mobilization of health care professionals after the declaration of a national emergency. Brief History of the SSS: The SSS was established by Congress and President Franklin Roosevelt in the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, which created the nation's first peacetime draft. From 1948 until 1973, both during peacetime and during periods of conflict, men were drafted to fill vacancies in the armed forces which could not be filled through voluntary means. The draft was ended in 1973 and the U.S. converted to an all-volunteer army. In 1975, President Ford suspended the SSS and put it in deep standby status. President Carter decided to reinstate the SSS and the registration requirement after the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1980. The House has twice voted to abolish the SSS. In 1993, the House VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee zeroed out funding for the SSS. An effort to restore the funding on the House floor was defeated. In 1999, the House Appropriations Committee again removed funding for the SSS. An effort to restore funding on the House floor was again defeated. However, in both cases, funding for the SSS was restored during the conference committee with the Senate.
12.14.2006	December 15, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio sent a letter today to President Bush urging him to file a case with the World Trade Organization (WTO) charging oil-producing countries with improperly restricting exports. DeFazio argued that restricting exports leads to de facto price fixing. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) recently agreed to a reduction in output by 500,000 barrels a day beginning in February 2007. This is in addition to a 1.2 million barrel a day reduction agreed to in late October. Under Article XI of the WTO rules, member countries are prohibited from using anything other than, “duties, taxes or other charges,” to limit imports or exports across their borders. Therefore, DeFazio argued that oil production quotas violate WTO rules. “As a world power, we have leverage over OPEC members,” DeFazio said. “Why should we continue to support the oil barons who collude to raise the price of oil and in turn hike up prices at the pump? "Given this administration’s coziness with big oil, I’m not optimistic the Bush administration will take meaningful action on this issue. But the U.S. has regularly filed cases at the WTO on behalf of U.S. business interests. It’s time we do the same on behalf of U.S. consumers.” The text of the letter follows. December 15, 2006 The Honorable George W. Bush President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush: As you know, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) just agreed to a reduction in output of 500,000 barrels-a-day beginning February 1, 2007. This is on top of the 1.2 million barrel-a-day reduction OPEC agreed to just two months ago. The combined reduction of nearly 2 million barrels a day has caused oil prices to again head toward $70 a barrel. The Federal Reserve has been successful at keeping inflation in check and interest rates relatively low. However, rising energy prices, particularly for oil, may make that job impossible in the near future. In response to rising oil prices and the possibility of higher inflation, the Federal Reserve may end up raising interest rates to levels so high that they choke off economic growth. High oil prices will also inflate the already record trade deficits that threaten our economic stability. And, of course, the resulting high retail gas prices will harm consumers, farmers, small businesses, and manufacturers. Fortunately, the U.S. does not have to sit idly by while OPEC manipulates the supply and price of oil. As I have suggested to you before, the U.S. should file a case against OPEC at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for illegal market manipulation and price fixing. You and others have repeatedly expressed support for the WTO and "rules-based" trade. Now you have an opportunity to prove that your commitment to rules-based trade is more than rhetorical. OPEC's willful violation of WTO rules should not be allowed to stand. Of the 12 OPEC countries (Angola will become a member on January 1, 2007), eight are members of the WTO (Angola, Kuwait, Indonesia, Nigeria, Qatar, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates); and four have observer status and have applied to join the WTO (Algeria, Libya, Iran, Iraq). In addition, of the remaining large oil-producing nations, Mexico, Norway, and Oman are members of the WTO, and Russia has applied for membership. Therefore, filing a case could have widespread impact. The General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions, otherwise known as Article XI of the original General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) adopted in 1947, which was also a part of the Uruguay Round text in 1994 that created the WTO, states: “No prohibitions or restrictions other than duties, taxes or other charges, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licenses or other measures, shall be instituted or maintained by any contracting party on the importation of any product of the territory of any other contracting party or on the exportation or sale for export of any product destined for the territory of any other contracting party.” In other words, establishing quotas and colluding to set production levels as OPEC does clearly violate WTO rules, specifically Article XI. The precise meaning of this provision is fleshed out in a 1988 GATT Panel Report on “Japan - Trade in Semi-conductors.” The Panel noted: “...this wording (in Article XI) was comprehensive: it applied to all measures instituted or maintained by a contracting party prohibiting or restricting the importation, exportation or sale for export of products other than measures that take the form of duties, taxes, or other charges...This wording indicated clearly that any measure instituted or maintained by a contracting party which restricted the exportation or sale for export of products was covered by this provision, irrespective of the legal status of the measure.” The 1988 GATT panel report cited above clarifies that only duties, taxes or other charges are allowable, not pacts among countries to limit production of a product for export. The oil production quotas devised by OPEC clearly qualify as a “quantitative restriction” in violation of WTO rules, and I would again request that you file a case at the WTO arguing this point. Finally, I want to bring your attention to Article XX, which sets out a series of broad exceptions to Article XI. Article XX notes that none of the exceptions are valid if they are “applied in a manner which would constitute...a disguised restriction on international trade." Therefore, the broad exception in Article XX that allows restrictions for the "conservation of exhaustible natural resources" would not protect OPEC's market manipulation because OPEC is not restricting oil production due to conservation concerns or to preserve an exhaustible supply. Rather, OPEC is restricting supply solely in order to influence world oil prices which clearly qualifies as a "disguised restriction on international trade." The United States government has filed a number of cases with the WTO on behalf of U.S. companies; it is past time to show a similar commitment to U.S. consumers and fuel-dependent industries that are being gouged by OPEC. Sincerely, /s/ PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress Cc: Ambassador Susan C. Schwab, U.S. Trade Representative
12.10.2006	December 11, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) confirmed that the State of Oregon is due reimbursement for services the Oregon National Guard provided in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina. FEMA Deputy Director Harvey Johnson sent a letter today to the state of Louisiana stating that the Oregon National Guard should be reimbursed by the state of Louisiana for the $2.7 million Oregon is owed. FEMA will compensate Louisiana for this amount. Last week, DeFazio and the entire Oregon congressional delegation sent a letter to Acting FEMA Director R. David Paulison informing him of the shortfall the Oregon Military Department faced without FEMA's reimbursement, and urging him to remedy this oversight as soon as possible. Thanks to the delegation's efforts, as well as prior contact with the Department of Homeland Security by DeFazio, the Oregon National Guard will be reimbursed in full. Because of the federal government's belated response to Hurricane Katrina, Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco enlisted the Oregon National Guard to assist in the relief effort. The Oregon National Guard exceeded expectations by deploying over 2,100 soldiers and their equipment to New Orleans in less than three days. Last September, DeFazio and Rep. Darlene Hooley visited the troops deployed to New Orleans to observe the important and challenging work they were doing.
12.07.2006	DeFazio helped created program, Small Starts, which will fund EmX December 8, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio is pleased to announce today that Lane Transit District's Pioneer Parkway EmX extension will take the first step toward getting federal funding and beginning construction. The Federal Transit Administration today approved the project to enter the Project Development phase, which is the first step toward becoming eligible to receive a federal grant for construction. The project will be funded through the Small Starts program, a new transit program created in last year's highway and transit reauthorization bill, SAFETEA-LU. DeFazio and several other representatives worked to establish the Small Starts Program, and the Pioneer Parkway EmX extension is expected to be the first project funded through the program. "The Pioneer Parkway EmX extension, which will link downtown Springfield with the RiverBend Hospital and the Gateway area, will be a great addition to the newly opened Franklin line connecting downtown Eugene and Springfield," DeFazio said. "I am proud that it's the first project approved for the Small Starts program, which I helped create. EmX represents the type of project Small Starts was created to fund—a meaningful, yet affordable transit project that works for a smaller community." The project is expected to cost $36.99 million, which includes a proposed federal grant of $26.59 million. FTA will make a decision on funding for construction of the project once the Project Development phase has been completed.
12.07.2006	December 8, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio's legislation to transfer approximately 12 acres of West Eugene Wetlands property to the City of Eugene (H.R. 4784) passed the House today, and companion legislation (S. 2150) passed the Senate. The property is currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management. The City of Eugene plans to build an environmental education center and wildlife viewing area on the property. "Transferring this property will allow the city to build upon the successful restoration of the West Eugene Wetlands," DeFazio said. "The planned education center and wildlife viewing area will be a real asset to the wetlands project and the community as a whole." "This legislation will bring momentum to the establishment of a Wetlands Education Center that will reconnect the Wetlands to our community consciousness via education, recreation, and interpretation through our past, present and future," Eugene Mayor Kitty Piercy said. "This project will expand our horizons in science and self-knowledge, not only for our region's youth, but for citizens of all ages." The legislation, known as the "Eugene Land Conveyance Act," was enthusiastically supported by the City of Eugene and the Bureau of Land Management. Senators Ron Wyden and Gordon Smith introduced S. 2150.
12.07.2006	DeFazio worked to include stronger and better enforced safety standards in the bill December 7, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio cosponsored a bill to strengthen safety measures for pipelines such as the proposed natural gas pipeline in Coos Bay. The Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety (PIPES) Act (H.R. 5782) passed the House last night by a voice vote. "With the recent pipeline leaks in Alaska and the possibility of a new liquefied natural gas pipeline in Southwestern Oregon, this legislation is particularly timely," DeFazio said. "I supported this bill because it adds important new pipeline safety measures and strengthens enforcement of existing measures, helping to ensure the safety of all Americans." The PIPES Act reauthorizes the pipeline safety programs of the Transportation Department for a total of $353 million over four years. The legislation: - increases the number of federal pipeline safety inspectors by 50 percent by 2010; - strengthens the authority of the overseeing agency, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), to make conditions safer and restore pipeline operations during manmade or natural disasters; - Implements safety measures to improve pipeline operators' worker training and protect against worker fatigue; - Requires additional pipeline operators to implement pipeline integrity management plans and requires senior executives to certify the reports on these programs; and - Increases transparency by requiring monthly public summaries of safety enforcement actions taken on gas and hazardous liquid pipelines.
12.06.2006	Oregon troops sent to assist Gulf Coast after Katrina continue to await reimbursement for services December 7, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—All seven members of the Oregon delegation sent a letter today to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) urging the agency to reimburse the Oregon National Guard as promised for the emergency assistance it provided to areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Because of the federal government's belated response to Hurricane Katrina, Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco enlisted the Oregon National Guard to assist in the relief effort. The Oregon National Guard exceeded expectations by deploying over 2,100 soldiers and their equipment to New Orleans in less than three days. However, over a year later, FEMA has not reimbursed the Oregon National Guard for the $2.7 million the Guard expended in the relief effort. These reimbursement funds are vital to the Oregon Military Department, which is facing a significant shortfall because of this unresolved issue. The text of the letter is below: December 21, 2006 The Honorable R. David Paulison Federal Emergency Management Agency Federal Center Plaza 500 C Street SW Washington, DC 20472 Dear Director Paulison: We are writing the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) role in the lengthy delay in reimbursing the Oregon National Guard for the expenses incurred in rendering assistance to Louisiana during Hurricane Katrina. In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco asked Oregon Governor Ted Kulongoski to send the Oregon National Guard to assist in the relief effort. The Oregon National Guard exceeded all expectations by deploying over 2,100 soldiers and their equipment 1,500 miles to New Orleans in less than 3 days. Their performance while deployed was superb and they have been recognized for the exceptional work they accomplished. Yet, over a year later, the Oregon National Guard has not been reimbursed for $2.7 million the Guard expended in this relief effort. Because the federal government did not initially react to the crisis in Louisiana, Oregon’s Governor was forced to activate the Guard in state active duty status on September 1, 2005. Because of Oregon’s minimum wage laws, Oregon state active duty pay exceeds the Department of Defense pay tables. Under the Emergency Management Assistance Compact these costs are the responsibility of the state that requested the assistance. However, because of the nature of the disaster and assistance provided, there appears to be much confusion regarding FEMA's role in reimbursing the Oregon National Guard. For more than a year, the Oregon Military Department has continued to seek reimbursement from the State of Louisiana and FEMA for the $2,727,800.92 expended. The Department is now facing a significant shortfall in their accounts because of this unresolved issue. Brig. Gen. Mike Caldwell of the Oregon Guard was recently quoted in an interview that if the money is not allocated by February, "We could be turning off lights and laying off people." This issue has been unresolved far too long and we ask that you resolve this matter expeditiously. Because of the timeliness of this matter and its effect on the budget of the Oregon National Guard, we request a response within 15 days. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio House of Representatives Ron Wyden United States Senate Gordon H. Smith United States Senate Earl Blumenauer House of Representatives Greg Walden House of Representatives Darlene Hooley House of Representatives David Wu House of Representatives
12.06.2006	December 6, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Representatives Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley and David Wu and Senator Ron Wyden, as well as seven other representatives, sent a letter today to U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez urging the Bush administration to include disaster assistance for salmon fishers in the continuing resolution for fiscal year 2007. Including this funding in a continuing resolution being drafted by the president and his allies in Congress will ensure that this disaster assistance passes Congress before it adjourns for the year. "There is no question that salmon fishers have suffered immensely from the widespread shutdown of this year's fishing season," DeFazio said. "It's past time for Congress to recognize that and provide assistance so that these fishers can pay their bills and put food on the table. It's vital that Secretary Gutierrez request this funding to be included in the continuing resolution, so fishers can get the help they need as soon as possible." “Every time I’ve met with folks on the coast this year I’ve heard heart-wrenching stories about businesses forced to close and people unable to pay their mortgage or electricity bills,” Wyden said. “This funding is vital to the survival of our fishermen and coastal communities.” “Oregon’s coastal communities have been devastated by the West Coast salmon closure," Hooley said. "Fishers and businesses cannot wait another day for help. Therefore, we are asking Secretary Gutierrez to honor his commitment to reach out to congressional leaders to help secure emergency aid before Congress adjourns for the year. Time is of the essence -- we need the administration's help now.” "This disaster wasn't created by fishermen, but rather by poor Klamath Basin management decisions made back in Washington, D.C.," Wu said. "Oregon salmon fishers and their families need the Bush administration to deliver. Their livelihoods depend on it." The text of the letter is below. December 6, 2006 The Honorable Carlos M. Gutierrez Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 14th and Constitution Avenues, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Gutierrez: We understand that the administration has made a request for a number of items to be included in the continuing resolution (CR) for fiscal year 2007 that will be considered by Congress this week. It is also our understanding that the administration has unfortunately failed to include in your request the $60.4 million in disaster assistance for those impacted by the declared salmon fishing disaster off the coasts of Oregon and California. We are concerned that the congressional leadership will not include this critical funding in the CR without a request from the administration. Therefore, it is vital that the administration request that this long overdue aid be included in the CR. The CR represents the last opportunity to provide this aid before Congress adjourns for the year. These families have already had to wait too long for the promised aid. They have had their economic livelihoods taken away through no fault of their own. They need and deserve assistance, but that assistance will not come through without your help. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Ron Wyden U.S. Senator Darlene Hooley Member of Congress David Wu Member of Congress Mike Thompson Member of Congress Sam Farr Member of Congress George Miller Member of Congress Lois Capps Member of Congress Anna Eshoo Member of Congress Tom Lantos Member of Congress Lynn Woolsey Member of Congress
12.06.2006	December 6, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio released the following statement regarding the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group: "The Iraq Study Group significantly advanced the debate today on how to stabilize Iraq and bring our troops home. I commend the seriousness with which the ISG went about their work, and the spirit of bipartisanship in which it was done. "In many respects, the report echoes the strategy to phase down U.S. involvement in Iraq that I first proposed in a letter to the president in February 2005 (online here: https://defazio.house.gov/021705FAStatement.shtml) and reiterated in November 2005 (online here: https://defazio.house.gov/112905DERelease.shtml). "The ISG rightly notes that: "There is no military solution to the violence in Iraq, which is primarily the result of sectarian conflicts, not foreign terrorists; "An open-ended military commitment in Iraq undermines the ability to resolve the conflict in Iraq; and, "A rough timeline for withdrawal will pressure Iraqi leaders to make the political compromises necessary to bring stability to that country. "I also agree that many of the specific tactics the report recommends make a lot of sense, including accelerating the training and equipping of Iraqi forces, removing U.S. troops from frontline combat duties, instituting aggressive diplomacy, and renouncing any intent to establish permanent bases or control over Iraqi oil. "The one major area of disagreement I have is the report's insistence, despite a call in the report itself for combat troops to be out by early 2008, that timelines and deadlines are not helpful. I believe that a firm timeline for our troops to come home is critical to get Iraqi leaders to make the political compromises necessary to achieve national reconciliation and stability. The U.S. has constantly imposed timelines on the political side -- for writing the constitution, for elections, and for forming a government. It was those timelines that got the Iraqis to resolve differences. We need to do something similar on the military side. "I intend to continue to work aggressively with Representative Jack Murtha and other like-minded members of Congress to bring our troops home from Iraq sooner rather than later. I believe the bulk of our troops should be brought home sooner than early 2008."
12.04.2006	December 4, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—In a letter today, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio and other members of the Oregon delegation strongly urged congressional leaders to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act of 2000 before this year's legislative session ends. The successful "county payments" program provides stable funding for rural schools and communities as well as for popular forest management projects. Of Oregon’s 36 counties, 32 received payments through the program totaling over $273 million in 2005. Payments are based on historical timber harvest levels. Because of the large amount of timber historically harvested from federal lands in Oregon, Oregon counties have received significant payments from the funding formula, with the 4th District receiving the most. In addition to DeFazio, the letter was signed by Senators Ron Wyden and Gordon Smith, and Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Darlene Hooley, Greg Walden and David Wu. The text of the letter follows. December 4, 2006 The Honorable Bill Frist Majority Leader U.S. Senate Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable J. Dennis Hastert Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Harry Reid Minority Leader U.S. Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Colleagues: As Congress approaches the conclusion of the 109th Congress, we implore you to not adjourn sine die without reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act of 2000 (P.L. 106-393). Its reauthorization is noncontroversial and must be accomplished to avoid the economic and social damage this law's expiration will cause in over 700 counties nationwide located in more than 40 states. Reauthorization of P.L. 106-393 will continue a very successful program providing stable funding for rural schools and communities as well as popular forest management projects. The problem has been finding budgetary offsets for this mandatory spending law. We have worked with the Administration, Republican and Democrat leaders on this problem for the past two years and yet reached no agreeable conclusions. We respectfully submit that you apply collections similar to the government contractor loophole closure in the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 or a very small budget cut across the board of all the agencies to pay for this highly important, highly successful program. The estimated cost of extending this program is approximately $500 million per year, including a portion to be paid out of timber receipts. We have attached a copy of the letter sent by the National Governors Association urging your immediate support for reauthorization of this program. Clearly, a law important enough to be supported by all 50 state governors, and all 55 U.S. Governors in the Association, deserves our collective attention in the last hours of the 109th Congress. Please do not allow this law to expire with the 109th Congress. Please keep faith with the 100-year-old promise made to our forest dependent rural schools and communities. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Ron Wyden U.S. Senator Gordon H. Smith U.S. Senator Greg Walden Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Darlene Hooley Member of Congress David Wu Member of Congress
11.20.2006	November 20, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today requested that the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) work with Lane County to acquire 1,200 acres of land near Mount Pisgah. The property would be used to expand Buford Park and create a nature preserve. The seller of the property, Wildish Land Company, is seeking $26 million for the property, a price tag that is too steep for Lane County to afford on its own. In his letter to BPA Administrator Stephen Wright today, DeFazio urged the BPA to work with Lane County to identify possible sources of funding within the agency that may be used to purchase the property. Under the Northwest Power Act, BPA has a responsibility to protect, mitigate and enhance fish and wildlife resources. The Wildish land is important because of its natural and biological diversity. If the county does not purchase the property, it could be sold to developers and an opportunity to preserve open space and wildlife habitat would be lost forever. The text of letter is below. November 20, 2006 Mr. Stephen J. Wright Administrator Bonneville Power Administration P.O. Box 3621 Portland, OR 97208-3621 Dear Steve: I am writing to request that the Bonneville Power Administration work closely with Lane County officials to identify possible sources of funding within your agency for helping the county to acquire 1,200 acres near Mount Pisgah that may be sold by Wildish Land Company. The county would preserve the lands as parks and open space. As you know, under the Northwest Power Act, Bonneville has a responsibility to protect, mitigate and enhance fish and wildlife resources. Purchase of the Wildish property by Lane County would help create a nearly 5,000 acre park and nature preserve extending from Mount Pisgah to the confluence of the Coast Fork and the Middle Fork of the Willamette River. This land is important because of its natural and biological diversity. It is home to hundreds of plants species, dozens of birds and reptiles and numerous amphibians. As Friends of Buford Park & Mount Pisgah have said, "the wetland, prairie and oak savanna habitats [in the areas around Mount Pisgah] are some of the most valuable left in existence in the Willamette Valley." The Wildish Land Company is seeking $26 million for the property, a price tag that is too steep for Lane County to afford on its own. If the county doesn't purchase the property, it could be sold off to developers and an opportunity to preserve open space and wildlife habitat would be lost forever. Given that Bonneville's statutory responsibilities include a requirement to mitigate for lost wildlife habitat, including habitat in the Willamette Valley, I would appreciate it if you would analyze whether Bonneville has resources that could be used to help acquire the Wildish property and, if so, what level of funding assistance would be possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, /s/ PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress
11.13.2006	Congressman urges fishing families to participate in discussion of Klamath River management November 13, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio's request for a South Coast hearing on recommendations for management of the Klamath River was granted last week, helping to ensure Oregon fishing families' voices are heard. The hearing is scheduled for November 29th in North Bend. DeFazio sent a letter last month to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) requesting an additional hearing to discuss FERC's Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Klamath Hydroelectric Project's request for a new operating license. The statement includes recommendations from federal agents, including NOAA Fisheries and the Bureau of Land and Management, on a variety of conditions for re-licensing of the project. Some of these conditions could improve salmon runs and help fishing families and coastal communities that rely on them. FERC can accept or reject the conditions proposed by other federal agencies. It can also build on those conditions and recommend further changes in management. In addition to the North Bend hearing, FERC has scheduled four hearings to discuss re-licensing the Klamath River dams, which are owned by Pacificorp. Three hearings are scheduled in California -- two in Yreka and one in Eureka -- and one other hearing is scheduled in Klamath Falls, Oregon. Earlier this year, the salmon fishing season along the Oregon and Northern California coasts was closed, and the Department of Commerce declared a fishing disaster. Management of the Klamath was an underlying factor in the closure of the fishing season, causing an estimated $60 million in damage to the commercial fishing industry. With the addition of the North Bend hearing to the schedule, the deadline for submitting written comments to FERC on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement has been extended until December 1st.
11.08.2006	November 8, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—For more than three years, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) has been calling for Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to resign or be fired because of his multiple failures related to the Iraq war. Earlier this week, DeFazio was joined by the leadership of The Army Times, The Navy Times, The Marine Corps Times, and The Air Force Times who published a joint editorial calling on President Bush to fire Secretary Rumsfeld. These papers are independent publications read widely throughout the military. This editorial followed in the wake of several retired generals calling for Rumsfeld's ousting over the last year. Today, Secretary Rumsfeld finally heeded these calls and submitted his resignation. "The removal of Secretary Rumsfeld is long overdue," DeFazio said. "The failures in Iraq are not his alone, but he bears a large share of responsibility for the mistakes and misrepresentations prior to the war and the well known failures in Iraq over the last three years. If we had changed course earlier, it would have been easier and would have saved U.S. lives. Secretary Rumsfeld failed to provide adequate body armor for the troops, said we'd be treated as liberators, and refused to read the report on what would be necessary to succeed in post-Saddam Iraq. Finally holding an administration official accountable for his policy failures sends an important signal on the need for competent governance." "However, Rumsfeld's departure will be meaningless if the President and Vice President keep pursuing the same polices in Iraq with a new Secretary of Defense, which is the impression the President gave today. The American people made it clear in yesterday's election that they want a new direction in Iraq. Our troops have been done all that has been asked of them in Iraq. It is now time to end the open-ended commitment the President has made, which has been used as a crutch by Iraqi politicians to avoid making the necessary political compromises to stabilize their country. The U.S. needs to negotiate a timeline to withdraw our troops beginning next year and refocus our efforts on fighting al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and elsewhere." To receive radio actuality, contact Maria Leavey at 703-418-2060.
11.01.2006	Mine restoration will help protect clean water, Willamette River health November 1, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 EUGENE—Oregon Governor Ted Kulongoski, U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio, and the Environmental Protection Agency today announced the beginning of clean up of the Black Butte Mine, formerly one of the largest mercury mines in Oregon and a major source of mercury contamination of the Willamette River. “This is a great day for every Oregonian who cares about clean water and a healthy Willamette,” Governor Kulongoski said. “This cleanup will help heal the damage caused by the toxic runoff present since the late 19th century. I congratulate the Environmental Protection Agency for answering my call for improved river health—and for federal help in cleaning this orphan site.” Representative DeFazio said the cleanup will reduce threats to public health from mercury contamination in the Cottage Grove area, where the mine is located. “I feel a special concern for the Cottage Grove Reservoir and the upper Willamette,” DeFazio said. “I appreciate all the partners taking action not just to clean up this mine, but to improve the overall environmental health of our community. It’s good news for our river, and good news for wildlife.” In 1999, after the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) found unsafe levels of arsenic and mercury in the tailings, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ} assigned a high priority to investigating high concentrations of metals in the soil around the site, the Governor said. The DEQ designated the Black Butte Mine an “orphan site” in 2002—meaning that those responsible for the problems are unknown, unable to pay, or unwilling to cleanup the site. The DEQ then recommended using funds from Oregon’s “Orphan Site Account” to speed the investigation and cleanup of the mine site. The Governor visited the mine site in 2004 with Oregon Senator Ron Wyden. “Senator Wyden and I had a long talk about what should be done to clean up the Willamette River,” the Governor said, “and we agreed that the Black Butte Mine was at the top of the list. That’s why I made it a high priority under my Willamette River Legacy Program.” At that time, the Governor also pledged to obtain federal help to address elevated concentration of metals in the soil around it. Since then, DEQ has worked with EPA to complete a Removal Assessment Report for the site, which stressed the need to remove hot spots of contaminated soil and stabilize the slope of the hillside to prevent mercury from reaching the Cottage Grove Reservoir and the Willamette River. Contamination from the site has caused unsafe levels of mercury in fish in the reservoir—a clear threat to public health, the Governor said.In June of this year, the Governor and EPA Oregon Operations Director Socorro Rodriguez opened the second leg of the Willamette River Water Trail, and Rodriguez announced that EPA Region 10 would fund initial cleanup activities at the Black Butte Mine site, at a cost of about one million dollars—in direct response to the State’s request for help. The cleanup is expected to be completed in the spring of 2007.
10.18.2006	October 18, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today requested a hearing to be scheduled in Coos Bay to discuss recommendations by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for management of the Klamath River. FERC published its Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Klamath Hydroelectric Project's request for a new operating license late last month. Federal agents, including NOAA Fisheries and the Bureau of Land and Management, have recommended a variety of conditions for re-licensing of the project. Some of these conditions could improve salmon runs and help fishing families and coastal communities that rely on them. FERC can accept or reject the conditions proposed by other federal agencies. It can also build on those conditions and recommend further changes in management. FERC has scheduled four hearings to discuss re-licensing the Klamath River dams, which are owned by Pacificorp. Three hearings are scheduled in California—two in Yreka and one in Eureka—and one hearing is scheduled in Klamath Falls, Oregon. "I feel strongly that at least one of the hearings should be held on the coast, since there has been such a dramatic impact on fishers and the coastal community because of the poor Klamath returns," DeFazio said. Earlier this year, the salmon fishing season along the Oregon and Northern California coasts was closed, and the Department of Commerce declared a fishing disaster. Management of the Klamath was an underlying factor in the closure of the fishing season, causing an estimated $60 million in damage to the commercial fishing industry. "FERC needs to take strong action in the re-licensing process to help restore the Klamath River and the health of the Klamath salmon run," DeFazio said. "Fishing families and coastal communities have clearly suffered from decisions regarding the Klamath that they have no control over. These families and communities deserve to be heard by FERC." The full text of the letter follows. October 18, 2006 Chairman Joseph T. Kelliher Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20426 Dear Chairman Kelliher: I am writing regarding the schedule of hearings that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has announced with respect to the Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Klamath Hydroelectric Project. I would request that you schedule an additional hearing to be held in Coos Bay, Oregon. A hearing along the Oregon Coast would provide salmon fishers who have been negatively impacted by decisions on the management of the Klamath River an opportunity to be heard by FERC. As you may know, earlier this year the Pacific Fishery Management Council closed salmon fishing along 700 miles of the Oregon and Northern California Coasts. The Department of Commerce has declared a fishing disaster. And the states of Oregon and California have estimated direct damages to the commercial fishing industry and downstream impacts at more than $60 million from the closure. The underlying cause of the closure is mismanagement of the Klamath River. As you know, federal agencies have proposed a variety of conditions for the re-licensing of the Klamath Hydroelectric Project that could improve salmon runs and help fishing families and coastal communities that rely on such economic activity. NOAA Fisheries originally recommended that the dams be removed. Lacking the authority to order that, however, NOAA Fisheries and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service have recommended fish screens and ladders be added to improve fish passage. The Bureau of Land Management has recommended increased flows to aid fish. FERC needs to consider these proposed conditions carefully and understand the beneficial impact they could have for families and communities along the Oregon Coast. Fishing families and coastal communities have clearly suffered from decisions regarding the Klamath that they have no control over. These families and communities deserve to be heard by FERC. Thank you for your careful consideration of this matter. Sincerely, /s/ PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress cc: Commissioner Suedeen G. Kelly Commissioner Phillip D. Moeller Commissioner Marc Spitzer Commissioner Jon Wellinghoff
10.16.2006	October 16, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio sent a letter to the Union Pacific Railroad requesting that it consider donating, rather than selling, the 14-mile Bailey Branch railroad line, which runs from south of Corvallis down to Monroe and over to Dawson. The current operator of the line, Willamette and Pacific Railroad, is planning to discontinue service. By donating the rail line, Union Pacific would help ensure shippers could continue to use this line, which they consider a critical link to Oregon's rail network. The text of the letter follows. October 10, 2006 Mr. James R. Young President and CEO Union Pacific Railroad 1400 Douglas Street Omaha, NE 68179 Dear Mr. Young: I am writing to request that Union Pacific Railroad (UP) consider donating the 14 mile Bailey Branch line in Oregon to Benton County, the State of Oregon, or another interested public entity. The Bailey Branch, also referred to as the Monroe-Dawson line, was owned by Southern Pacific and in the early 1990s the Willamette & Pacific Railroad signed a 20 year lease of the line. Last year, the Willamette & Pacific decided that they no longer want to operate the line and they plan to file an application with the Surface Transportation Board to discontinue rail service. It is my understanding that Union Pacific has volunteered to sell the Bailey Branch line, but the interested parties do not have enough funds to both purchase the line and make the necessary improvements that would allow continued use of the line. As a result, I urge UP to consider donating this line so that someone else can operate it. By donating the line, UP would help ensure continued service to the shippers who have depended on the Bailey Branch line for years and consider it a critical link to the state's rail network. I appreciate your consideration of my request. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
10.06.2006	October 6, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio has received a 100 percent rating from the American Association of University Women (AAUW) on his voting record in the 109th Congress. Fewer than half of senators and representatives in the U.S. Congress received a rating of 80 percent or higher for supporting AAUW issues in the 109th Congress. AAUW based its ratings on members of Congress' support for education and family issues. "I am proud the AAUW has recognized my efforts to ensure that legislation important to women and their families is enacted," DeFazio said. "However, many in Congress do not share my priorities, passing tax cuts for the wealthy while slashing education funding. I will continue to fight against these misguided priorities."
09.30.2006	September 30, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted last night in support of the SAFE Port Act, H.R. 4954, comprehensive legislation that will improve the security of our nation's ports. The bill passed the House. Even before the prospect of the Dubai Ports acquisition brought the issue of port security to the forefront, dangerous vulnerabilities existed in our global supply chain, reaching far beyond the shores of our nation's seaports. The maritime transport system is vulnerable to attack and exploitation by terrorists. We need to extend our security perimeter to the deep ocean or foreign ports to prevent the nightmare scenario of the detonation of a weapon of mass destruction in a U.S. port. Although this legislation will improve port and supply chain security, it fails to require 100 percent scanning of containers before they arrive in the U.S. By the time a weapon of mass destruction arrives at a U.S. port, it is too late. "I think most Americans would be shocked to learn that five years after 9/11, we're still protecting our ports with an honor system, instead of security, certainty and good intelligence," DeFazio said. "Each shipper is asked to send us an invoice which discloses what they're shipping and only a tiny percentage of containers are well-secured and actually inspected. It's not very likely that a terrorist would voluntarily disclose that they are shipping 199 concrete birdbaths and a nuclear bomb. "This legislation will create a chain of custody for goods and containers coming to the United States that will be much more likely to prevent terrorists from shipping either themselves or weapons to our shores, but it does not go far enough. We need to scan 100 percent of cargo bound for the U.S. on the other side of the ocean, not in U.S. ports, and then monitor the container and cargo movement until they make U.S. landfall." The following are highlights of the SAFE Port Act: - authorizes $400 million in port security grants for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2012; - requires ports to provide training to longshoremen and other port workers to recognize security risks and respond to a terrorist attack; - creates firm deadlines requiring the Department of Homeland Security to issue the long-delayed Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) cards to workers with access to secure areas of ports which would require background security checks; - authorizes the hiring of 1000 new Customs and Border Protection officers over the next five years; - by the end of 2007, requires all containers that enter the 22 busiest U.S. ports be scanned for radiation before they leave the port facility for their destination within the U.S. Next Step: The Senate and the House of Representatives each passed a version of the SAFE Ports Act earlier this year. A conference committee worked out the differences between the two bills and drafted a final bill, which passed the House last night. The legislation must pass the Senate one more time before it can be sent to the president to be signed into law.
09.29.2006	September 20, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted yesterday against the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act, H.R. 5825. The bill would give extraordinary and unprecedented authority to the president, who, under the bill, would be permitted to conduct unlimited, warrantless wiretapping of U.S. citizens without probable cause. The bill passed the House. "I fully support giving law enforcement and intelligence agencies all the necessary tools to intercept terrorist or suspected terrorist communication," DeFazio said. "There is no reason this cannot be done in a way that complies with the Constitution and protects the freedom and liberties of American citizens. "The power this bill would give the president is alarming. The president, at his discretion, would be allowed to conduct a wiretap on any U.S. citizen in the event of an 'imminent threat of attack.' It's not a stretch to imagine that the consistently elevated threat level in the United States might be used to justify permanent warrantless wiretapping of U.S. citizens." The bill would allow the government to permanently retain and mine the data obtained from the warrantless surveillance, even data inadvertently obtained on innocent Americans from such surveillance, with no privacy protections for U.S. citizens. Further, the bill would prohibit court review of the warrantless wiretapping, leaving no opportunity in the future for judicial review of the constitutionality of the program. The legislation also severely limits congressional oversight of the program to a handful of members who would be sworn to secrecy. The legislation has yet to pass the Senate.
09.29.2006	Bill would increase funding for aviation, port and border security September 29, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today in favor of the fiscal year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which would raise the funding level of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to $34.8 billion, a 7 percent increase over last year. The bill passed the House today. Included in the bill is an increase in funding for Customs and Border Protection, including 1,500 additional border patrol agents and $1.188 billion in funding for border fencing, infrastructure and technology. In addition, the bill criminalizes building tunnels under the U.S. border and doubles penalties for smuggling illegal immigrants or illegal items through such tunnels. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) received a 3 percent increase in funding over last year, including $501 million for the purchase, installation and maintenance of an explosive detection system at airports across the country. The bill also includes $4.3 billion for port, container and cargo security, an increase of $600 million (14 percent) over the current funding. The legislation also bans border patrol agents from preventing individuals from bringing prescription drugs from Canada into the U.S. for their personal use. In addition, the bill makes changes to improve the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) by elevating the status of its director and prohibiting the transfer of the agency's authority, personnel, assets or funding. "Increased security at our borders, ports and in our aviation system are among my top priorities, and I am pleased to see that reflected in this bill," DeFazio said. "We still have a long way to go toward ensuring Americans are as safe as possible, but today's legislation is a good step in the right direction." "Though it is only a Band-Aid solution to a larger problem, it is also good news that Americans will now be able to purchase cheaper prescription drugs from Canada without having to worry about being detained at the border." The House and Senate previously approved their own Homeland Security appropriations bills. Today's vote was on a conference report that reconciled the two bills. This legislation must now be approved by the Senate before it is sent to the president to be signed into law.
09.27.2006	September 27, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today against a bill that would create an unfair and possibly unconstitutional trial system for foreign military detainees and is vague as to whether or not the U.S. will abide by the Geneva Conventions. The bill passed the House today. "I support establishing military tribunals to try foreign terrorists held by the United States," DeFazio said. "But a variety of military leaders and legal experts have raised serious concerns about the constitutionality and wisdom of the specific legislation considered today. We must uphold American values and respect for the rule of law. Doing so is essential to protecting our own military, intelligence and civilian personnel stationed overseas. And it is essential for winning the war on terror against al-Qaeda and the war of ideas in the Muslim world. We should hold ourselves to a higher standard of conduct than our enemies hold themselves. Unfortunately, while this bill contains the beginnings of a reasonable military tribunal process, it ultimately falls short." One of the primary reasons DeFazio voted against the bill is because it does not create a sustainable system to expedite the trials of terrorists held by the U.S. Congress considered today's legislation only after the Supreme Court threw out the original military tribunal process set up by the Bush administration. However, there are significant constitutional and legal questions with the current legislation, which means it will certainly be subject to additional legal wrangling and court rulings, including consideration by the Supreme Court. That means further delays in prosecuting terrorists. Further, any prosecutions undertaken as a result of this bill could be thrown out later if courts find the tribunal process set up by this legislation to have constitutional or other legal flaws. That could lead to terrorists being set free and would force the U.S. back to where it started, without a working military commission system. DeFazio, along with numerous military leaders and other legal experts, have expressed several concerns about the legislation: (1) It allows convictions, including a death sentence, based on evidence the accused can never see or challenge; (2) it allows convictions based on evidence obtained through torture and abusive interrogations; (3) it allows convictions based on hearsay evidence rather than requiring witnesses to actually testify and be cross-examined; (4) it allows the president too much discretion in interpreting U.S. obligations under the Geneva Conventions, which could allow CIA interrogators to use abusive techniques that have been outlawed by the Pentagon; and (5) it prohibits any detainees from filing habeas corpus appeals. Quotes from numerous military leaders who have raised concerns about aspects of this legislation follow: General criticism of the legislation: "Following the law of war protects our military in the field, enhances our national reputation at home and abroad, and promotes the growth of the rule of law and democracy that in the end are our strongest weapons against terrorism." - Lt. Cmdr. Charles Swift, Office of Chief Defense Counsel, Office of Military Commissions, Department of Defense (Testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 7/11/06) General criticism of the legislation: "'It methodically strips rights' guaranteed by laws and treaties and appears to be unconstitutional." - Marine Corps Col. Dwight Sullivan, Chief Defense Counsel for the Defense Department's Office of Military Commissions (as reported in the Washington Post, 9/23/2006) Regarding the need to preserve U.S. obligations under the Geneva Conventions: "If any agency of the U.S. government is excused from compliance with these standards, or if we seek to redefine what Common Article 3 requires, we should not imagine that our enemies will take notice of the technical distinctions when they hold U.S. prisoners captive. If degradation, humiliation, physical and mental brutalization of prisoners is decriminalized or considered permissible under a restrictive interpretation of Common Article 3, we will forfeit all credible objections should such barbaric practices be inflicted upon Americans prisoners." - Letter to the Senate Armed Services Committee from 27 retired military leaders, 9/12/2006 Regarding the prohibition of habeas corpus appeals: "It is inconsistent with our own history and tradition to take this action. If we diminish or tarnish our values, those values that the Founders fought for and memorialized in the Constitution and have been carefully preserved by the blood and honor of succeeding generations, then we will have lost a major battle in the war on terror. There has never been a time when it is more important for us to remember who we are. We owe that both to honor the memory of the men and women who gave us those rights and to hope for our progeny for whom we must preserve and protect them. We don't want to leave them a diminished Constitution." - Rear Admiral John Hutson (ret.), from USN JAG (Testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 9/25/2006). Regarding barring defendants from access to some evidence: "I am not aware of any situation in the world where there is a system of jurisprudence that is recognized by civilized people where an individual can be tried and convicted without seeing the evidence against him. And I don't think that the United States needs to become the first." - Marine Corps Brig. Gen. James C. Walker, staff judge advocate to the commandant (House Armed Service Committee hearing, 9/7/2006) Regarding allowing convictions based on evidence obtained through abusive interrogations: "Sir, I don't believe that a statement that is obtained under coercive, under torture, certainly, and under coercive measures, should be admissible." - Major General Scott Black, judge advocate general for the Army (Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, 9/2/2006) The legislation must now be passed by the Senate. - 30 -
09.27.2006	He also secures $13 million for Oregon projects in Defense Appropriations Bill September 27, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio announced that he helped secure funding for several important projects, including research at three Oregon universities, in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2007, which passed the House yesterday. Overall, the bill provides $447.6 billion, including $70 billion in funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill provides $1 billion for body armor and other personal protection equipment and a 2.2 percent pay raise for the troops. It also includes $17.1 billion for new and refurbished equipment for troops returning from Iraq, $1.9 billion to counter roadside bombs, and $549 million for enhanced life insurance and death benefits for military families. The bill marks the first time that Congress has approved legislation that prohibits the construction of permanent U.S. bases in Iraq and prohibits U.S. control over Iraqi oil. These minimum steps could help abate the Sunni insurgency movement and U.S. occupation in Iraq. Also included in the Defense Appropriations Act were $100 million for the Bureau of Land Management and $100 million to the Forest Service for wildfire suppression. The bill also includes funding for several Oregon projects. The first project funded is the Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI), a collaboration among government, industry and higher education that is located on the campuses of Oregon's major research universities: Oregon State University, Portland State University and the University of Oregon. ONAMI's Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing Initiative, which received $2.3 million, will develop materials and manufacturing methods that simultaneously meet the military's need for high performance materials, protect human health and minimize harm to the environment. ONAMI's Miniature Tactical Energy Systems Development Initiative received $1 million. It has a wide range of military applications, including development of portable power systems for use by military personnel in the field for water purification and battery power. ONAMI's Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative, which received $2.5 million, conducts research into defense-related nanoscale electronic applications such as high density memories on silicon integrated circuits. All three of these projects received federal funding in fiscal year 2006. Also included in the legislation is $2.5 million to continue research under the Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative at the University of Oregon. This program addresses fundamental questions about how humans think, learn and create, including questions about the range of brain processes that give rise to human cognition and the biological foundations of neurological disorders. Advances in cognitive neuroscience are helping to optimize the training and performance of military personnel, including the ability to function in stressful and complex environments. The funding in this bill will add to the over $13 million DeFazio has secured to date for the Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative. The Northwest Manufacturing Initiative received $2.5 million in the bill. The purpose of this industry-led statewide initiative is to make the Northwest region's diverse, value-added manufacturing sector a stronger contributor to the nation's defense and national security. The funding will be used for research and development to enhance the reliability, cost-effectiveness and environmental performance of products designed for the defense marketplace and to help improve the manufacturing capacity of small and medium-sized companies. Also funded was the Metals Affordability Initiative (MAI) for $2.3 million. MAI programs benefit a consortium of companies, including Oremet and Pacific Cast Technologies in Oregon, that produce metal by helping reduce costs, increasing industry and government collaboration, leveraging technical resources and financial investment, and expediting development of new defense technologies. Next Step: The Senate and the House of Representatives each passed a version of the Department of Defense Appropriations bill earlier this year. A conference committee worked out the differences between the two bills and drafted a final bill, which passed the House today. The legislation must pass the Senate one more time before it can be sent to the president to be signed into law.
09.25.2006	DeFazio urges affected landowners to contact FERC with concerns and questions September 25, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio received a response from federal regulators to a letter he sent expressing concerns about the proposed route of the Pacific Connector natural gas pipeline. DeFazio urged the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to "require rerouting of the Pacific connector pipeline in a way that avoids private property and eminent domain seizures, and instead uses existing transmission rights of way on public lands." DeFazio also wrote that he is "opposed to using eminent domain to seize private property to facilitate construction of the pipeline." FERC Chairman Joseph T. Kelliher's letter of response provided no guarantee that private property rights will be respected. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has the sole authority to approve a route for the pipeline and can authorize seizures of private property along the pipeline route. However, he did state his staff will be responsive to "reasonable right-of-way adjustments or other accommodations." Landowners concerned about the pipeline should contact FERC with their concerns. FERC can be contacted toll-free at 1-866-208-3372 or by e-mail at customer@ferc.gov. More information on how to get involved in this process can be found on the FERC website at: https://www.ferc.gov/industries/lng/enviro/pub-involve.asp. The text of Chairman Kelliher's response to DeFazio is below. September 8, 2006 The Honorable Peter DeFazio U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515-3704 Dear Representative DeFazio: Thank you for your August 17, 2006 letter regarding the Jordan Cove Liquefied Natural Gas Project (LNG) and the associated natural gas sendout pipeline planned by Pacific Connector Gas Pipeline (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [FERC or Commission] Docket Nos. PF06-25-000 and PF06-26). We have recently begun working with the project sponsors and other stakeholders in our pre-filing process for these projects (a required precursor to an application). We designed the pre-filing process so that the Commission staff, stakeholders, the project sponsors and other agencies can assess potential issues at an early stage. In this way, we can work to resolve these issues, such as the route of the pipeline, while the project is being developed prior to an application being filed. The Commission's goal is always for pipeline companies to work early and closely with affected landowners to minimize the need for companies to invoke the power of eminent domain. Further, in determining whether approval of a proposed pipeline project is in the public interest, the Commission takes into account the extent to which the pipeline company has sought to minimize the need for additional right of way. To ensure that landowner concerns are addressed in a timely manner, the Commission strongly encourages pipeline companies to engage in the Commission's pre-filing process which provides for the identification of landowners' concerns even before an application for a pipeline project is filed. Throughout pipeline certificate proceedings, the Commission's staff is responsive to landowners' concerns, whether they are identified during or after the pre-filing process. When a landowner requests reasonable right-of-way adjustments or other accommodations, staff actively seeks the pipeline company's concurrence, or staff makes appropriate recommendations to the Commission to ensure that the certificate is conditioned to require the pipeline company to make reasonable accommodations requested by landowners. It is only following the conclusion of a certificate proceeding, after the Commission has authorized the construction of a pipeline and imposed all necessary environmental mitigation measures, that the certificate holder is authorized by section 7(h) of the Natural Gas Act to acquire property through the use of eminent domain, and then only after it has failed to acquire necessary lands through contract or compensation agreement. At that point, jurisdiction over the matter rests with the state or federal court, which is required to follow local law. Also, please know that in addition to this Commission's authority as lead agency, LNG import projects are subject to the authorities of state agencies that have been delegated authority to act pursuant to federal law, including state agencies that have been delegated duties with respect to the Coastal Zone Management Act, Clean Water Act, and Clean Air Act. Our goal is to work cooperatively with state and local authorities to protect the safety of residents and to minimize adverse environmental impacts. Cooperation among federal, state, and local authorities is needed to assess the project proposals adequately and to expedite access to LNG supplies to meet the nation's critical energy needs. We encourage both federal and state agencies to become Cooperating Agencies in the preparation of the environmental documents. States and local agencies also have numerous other permitting capabilities and have the ability to participate and influence safety and security decisions made during the U.S. Coast Guard's workshops, which are conducted in each active case where a terminal is proposed. If I can be of further assistance in this or any other Commission matter, please let me know. Sincerely, /s/ Joseph T. Kelliher Chairman
09.20.2006	September 20, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today voted against HR 4844, which would require Oregonians voting by mail to submit a photocopy of their federal ID and proof of citizenship each time they vote in a federal election, opening the door to breaches of privacy of this sensitive information. We must be certain that all voters are citizens of the U.S. But once registered, they should not have to provide proof of citizenship each and every time they vote. "I strongly support the 9/11 Commission's recommendation of establishing more secure identification for American citizens," DeFazio said. "That's why I voted in favor of the REAL ID Act, which provided federal standards for the issuance of driver's licenses and ensures that licenses are only given to American citizens or immigrants in the U.S. legally. "The problem with HR 4844 is not its requirement of proof of citizenship when registering to vote, but its continual requirement to present such proof every time a citizen votes. That means each time Oregonians mail in their ballots for a federal election, they would also be required to include a copy of a document proving their U.S. citizenship. I have serious concerns about the inconvenience and cost this would add to the voting process, as well as privacy concerns about access to this sensitive information, which are not addressed by this bill. "Further, there is no evidence of a voting fraud problem in Oregon. According to the Oregon Secretary of State, since 1991, over 10 million votes have been cast in Oregon. Of those 10 million votes, only 10 people have met the criteria that would warrant an investigation into their citizenship. Of those 10, two have been prosecuted. It is important to keep in mind that the penalties for voting fraud are already severe. Immigrants who try to vote are automatically given a one-way ticket home. No criminal conviction is necessary. "If the majority were truly concerned about guaranteeing the integrity of federal elections, we would be focusing on widespread concerns about new electronic voting technology. In recent elections, voting machines have failed, votes have been lost, and hard drives have been damaged. Secure and auditable electronic voting machines that provide a paper ballot for verification should be the focus of Congress, not this hastily written bill."
09.07.2006	September 7, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Today, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio, along with 60 colleagues on the Rural Health Care Coalition, introduced a bill that will improve health care by making it easier for rural health care professionals and facilities to provide quality care. The bipartisan bill, Health Care Access and Rural Equity Act of 2006 (H-CARE), includes loans to renovate hospital infrastructure; grants to underwrite the purchase of health information technology; increases in reimbursement payments to hospitals for ambulance, lab and other services and for Medicare and Medicaid patients; and a requirement of prompt reimbursement of rural pharmacies by Medicare. "I represent a diverse district that includes urban, rural and coastal communities, and one of my top priorities is ensuring that all Americans have access to high quality health care," DeFazio said. "H-CARE addresses the unique challenges that rural health care providers face and goes a long way toward correcting the disparity that exists between rural and urban health care coverage."
09.01.2006	September 01, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio will send a letter today to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her to engage in direct diplomacy with Iran and to open up negotiation to a broad range of issues. In the letter, DeFazio notes the similarities between the negotiating proposals put forth by Iran and the European Union since 2003 that could serve as the basis for a diplomatic solution. Also, by broadening the range of issues up for negotiation to include cooperation to combat terrorism and Iran's recognition of the state of Israel, DeFazio argues that the U.S. could improve its own national security. Along with DeFazio, Representatives Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Donald Payne (D-N.J.), Bill Delahunt (D-Mass.) and Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio) also signed the letter. The text of the letter is included below. The Honorable Condoleezza Rice Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Rice: Like you, we were disappointed that Iran refused to suspend its uranium enrichment program as a precondition for beginning direct negotiations with the United States. And, while we recognize that the U.S. is likely to push for sanctions against Iran at the United Nations Security Council for defying the Council's resolution ordering a halt to the program, we do not believe that this, or Iran's refusal to agree to the pre-condition for direct talks, should pre-empt further diplomacy to resolve concerns about Iran's nuclear program. We strongly urge you to fully engage in direct diplomacy with Iran, without pre-conditions, and without limitations on the range of issues that can be discussed. According to the intelligence estimates from your administration and our allies, even under the most pessimistic assumptions, Iran is years away from obtaining a nuclear weapon. This is not an immediate crisis. There is plenty of time to conduct vigorous, credible diplomacy, which has not been tried by the United States to date. After reviewing the various proposals and counter-proposals that have been made by Iran and the European Union (often with the implicit or explicit endorsement of the United States) since the spring of 2003, we were struck by the many areas of commonality that could serve as the basis for a diplomatic solution. For example: Limits on Uranium Enrichment and Reprocessing From Iran: Action by Iran - "Phase 2: Policy Declaration on the Ceiling of Enrichment at LEU level [low-enriched uranium, suitable only for power generation, not weapons]." (March 23, 2005 Iranian proposal) "During May 2005: Policy Declaration on Iran's Open Fuel Cycle (No Reprocessing)." (April 29, 2005 Iranian proposal) "Additional Confidence Building Measures...For six months, Iran will continue the suspension of all other enrichment related activities and will make every effort in intensive negotiations in the three Working Groups and the Steering Committee to implement each following phase after agreement with E3/EU." (Ibid) From the EU/US: "Iran will...suspend enrichment-related and reprocessing activities to be verified by the IAEA..." (May 31, 2006 E3+3 proposal) International Atomic Energy Agency Inspections and the Additional Protocol of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty From Iran: Action by Iran - "Phase 1: Approval of the Additional Protocol in the Cabinet" (March 23, 2005 Iranian proposal) "Phase 2: Presentation of the Additional Protocol to the Majlis [Iranian Parliament] for Ratification." (Ibid) "Phase 3: Allowing Continuous On-Site Presence of IAEA Inspectors, which can Include E3/EU Nationals at UCF and Natanz." (Ibid) "During May 2005: Approval of the Additional Protocol in the Cabinet" (April 29, 2005 Iranian proposal) "Additional Confidence Building Measures...Iran will begin allowing continuous on-site presence of IAEA inspectors at the UCF, which had original been envisaged for the Third Phase." (Ibid) "Commencement of the work of Isfahan plant at low capacity and under full scope monitoring, while arrangements for import of the feed material and export of the product are worked out with you and other potential partners." (July 18, 2005 message from Dr. Hssan Rouhani, then Secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, to E3/EU Ministers) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU and Iran will: stress the importance of universal adherence to and full implementation of and compliance with disarmament and non-proliferation treaties and the full implementation of the IAEA safeguards agreements and additional protocols..." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) "Cooperation would be conditional on Iran's...resolution by the IAEA of all questions raised under Iran's Safeguards Agreement and Additional Protocol, and continued cooperation with the IAEA." (Ibid) "Iran would undertake to: make a legally binding commitment not to withdraw from the NPT and to keep all Iranian nuclear facilities under IAEA safeguards under all circumstances...ratify its Additional Protocal...by the end of 2005...allowing IAEA inspectors to visit any site or interview any person they deem relevant to their monitoring of nuclear activity in Iran." (Ibid) "Iran will: commit to addressing all the outstanding concerns of the IAEA through full cooperation...resume implementation of the additional protocol." (May 31, 2006 E3+3 proposal) Iranian Commitment Not to Pursue Nuclear Weapons, Right to Peaceful Nuclear Energy Program From Iran: Action by Iran - "Phase 1: Presentation of Legislation on Peaceful Use of Nuclear Technology, including Permanent Ban on Production, Stockpiling and Use of Nuclear Weapons to Majlis." (March 23, 2005 Iranian proposal) "During May 2005: Presentation of Legislation on Peaceful Use of Nuclear Technology, including Permanent Ban on Production, Stockpiling and Use of Nuclear Weapons to Majlis." (April 29, 2005 Iranian proposal) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU and Iran would: welcome Iran's commitment that, in accordance with Article II of the Treaty on the Non Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, it does not and will not seek to acquire nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) "The E3/EU recognise Iran's rights under Article IV of the NPT to develop, research, production and use of nuclear energy." (Ibid) "The E3/EU therefore declare...their willingness to support Iran to develop a safe, economically viable and proliferation-proof civil nuclear power generation and research program." (Ibid) "The E3/EU recognise that Iran should have sustained access to nuclear fuel for the Light Water Reactors forming Iran's civil nuclear industry." (Ibid) "We will take the following steps: reaffirm Iran's inalienable right to nuclear energy for peaceful purposes...actively support the building of new light water power reactors in Iran through international joint projects...provide cooperation with the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste." (May 31, 2006 E3+3 proposal) "We will take the following steps: give legally binding, multi-layered assurances to Iran, based on participate as a partner in an international facility in Russia to provide enrichment services for a reliable supply of fuel to Iran's nuclear reactors." (Ibid) Cooperation on Non-Proliferation From Iran: "Iran and the E3/EU reaffirm their commitment to all relevant international instruments on the elimination and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and underline the imperative of universal adherence to these instruments." (January 17, 2005 Iranian proposal) "The two sides restate their commitment to elimination as well as countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear, biological and chemical, through full compliance with their obligations under relevant international disarmament and non-proliferation treaties and agreements." (Ibid) "Iran remains committed not to pursue nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction under any circumstances." (Ibid) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU and Iran would...reaffirm that the proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as their means of delivery, constitutes a threat to international peace and security...reaffirm their commitment to abide by security and non-proliferation treaties to which they are party...reaffirm their commitment to the objective of an effectively verifiable Middle East zone free of weapons of mass destruction." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) Cooperation on Anti-Terrorism From Iran: "The E3/EU and Iran condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and affirm their determination to combat it." (January 17, 2005 Iranian proposal) "Iran and the E3/EU will deny safe haven to those who finance, plan, support, or commit terrorist acts and prevent them from using their respective territories for those purposes and will cooperate to bring them to justice." (Ibid) "Iran and the E3/EU restate their commitment to continue to freeze the funds and other financial assets or economic resources of persons who commit, or attempt to commit, terrorist acts or participate in or facilitate the commission of terrorist acts." (Ibid) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU and Iran would commit themselves to: combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) Non-aggression Pact From Iran: "The E3/EU and Iran restate their respect for each other's sovereign equality...emphasize their rejection of any threat of force against each other's national sovereignty, territorial integrity or political independence...underline the inviolability of their respective internationally recognized boundaries...will settle disputes among them by peaceful means." (January 17, 2005 Iranian proposal) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU propose that...the following mutual commitments in conformity with the Charter o the United Nations: to the principle of the resolution of disputes by peaceful means...to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state...to the principle of the sovereign equality of all States." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) Regional Security Arrangements From Iran: The E3/EU and Iran "will support the establishment of arrangements for security and cooperation in the Persian Gulf Region with the participation of all countries in the region, under appropriate United Nations umbrella." (January 17, 2005 Iranian proposal) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU would, as part of an overall agreement, commit to working with Iran to encourage confidence building measures and regional security arrangements. Such discussions would take place in close consultation with all the States of the region." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) Export Controls From Iran: "The E3/EU and Iran agree that transfer of highly sensitive materials, devices and technology should not contribute to the development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons." (January 17, 2005 Iranian proposal) "Iran undertakes to adopt legal, procedural and other measures to prevent unauthorized access to its nuclear capability and enrichment technology by any individual, group or state and uncontrolled export to other states." (Ibid) Action by Iran - "Phase 2: Strengthening of Legal Export Control Mechanisms" (March 23, 2005 Iranian proposal) "Iran is prepared to start the following joint steps: Establishment of a Joint Export Control Task Force." (April 29, 2005 Iranian proposal) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU and Iran are obliged to implement export controls." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) Cooperation on Drug Trafficking From Iran: "The E3/EU and Iran reaffirm that an effective fight against drug-trafficking and terrorism not only require political will but the capacity to do so. The E3/EU recognize that Iran should be supported as a country in a region which is highly affected by drug-trafficking and terrorism." (January 17, 2005 Iranian proposal) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU recognise that Iran has been and will continue to be a key international partner for the EU in stemming the flow of opiates to Eurpe and therefore commit to developing co-operation on key issues related to: illicit drug production, drug trafficking, chemical precursors trafficking, money-laundering, drug demand reduction..." (August 5, 2005 E3/EU proposal) Economic Incentives From Iran: "Declaration of EU Policy to Guarantee Iran's Access to EU Markets and Financial and Public and Private Investment Resources." (March 23, 2005 Iranian proposal) From the EU/US: "The E3/EU would recognise the fundamental importance of energy cooperation to their long-term relationship with Iran...agree to continue and strengthen mutually beneficial practices in the areas of export credits and investment guarantees...welcome Iran's successful application to open WTO accession talks...promote the sale of aircraft parts to Iran...commit to developing long-term scientific cooperation with Iran "We will take the following steps: Improving Iran's access to the international economy, markets and capital, through practical support for full integration into international structures, including the WTO, and to create the framework for increased direct investment in Iran and trade with Iran. Steps would be taken to improve access to key goods and technology [civil aviation, telecommunication, agriculture and high technology specifically mentioned]." (May 31, 2006 E3+3 proposal) Recognition of the State of Israel and Stopping Support for Anti-Israel Terrorists From Iran: "Iran accepts a dialogue 'in mutual respect' and agrees that the U.S. puts the following aims on the agenda...stop any material support to Palestinian opposition groups from Iranian territory, pressure on these organizations to stop violent actions against civilians within the borders of 1967...action on Hizbollah to become a mere political organization within Lebanon...acceptance of the Arab League Beirut declaration (Saudi initiative, two-states-approach)." (Spring 2003 Iranian proposal) We believe the only way for diplomacy to be given a realistic chance of success is for the U.S. to be willing to negotiate directly with Iran on all of the aforementioned issues. We urge you to reconsider your rejection of a so-called "grand bargain," which could not only help resolve the nuclear issue but also lead to cooperation against al-Qaeda and recognition of the State of Israel by Iran, both of which would help improve U.S. national security. By imposing pre-conditions and rejecting broader negotiations, we are concerned that you are undermining diplomatic efforts and our security. The administration must not merely view diplomacy as a box to check on the way to military action. Military action against Iran would have grave implications, including risking greater instability in Iraq and reversing even the minimal progress that may have been made; endangerment of U.S. troops in Iraq; retaliation against U.S. and Israeli interests around the world, including here at home; further volatility in the Middle East; an acceleration of Iran's nuclear program and certain pursuit of nuclear weapons; turning the Iranian people against the U.S.; massive spikes in oil and gas prices, and possibly starting a multi-year war, among others. Thank you for your careful consideration of our concerns. Sincerely, /s/ Rep. Peter DeFazio /s/ Rep. Barbara Lee /s/ Rep. Donald Payne /s/ Rep. Bill Delahunt /s/ Rep. Dennis Kucinich
08.10.2006	Administration Support Key To Getting Assistance August 10, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) issued the following statement today following the disaster declaration issued by the federal government for West Coast salmon fishers: "The administration's announcement is long-overdue but welcome recognition of what has been clear for some time to thousands of fishing families and coastal communities - the vast restrictions on the salmon fishing season have been an economic disaster for Oregon. "This declaration will help expedite assistance to struggling families. I will work with the administration and my colleagues in Congress on a bipartisan basis to push this aid as quickly as possible through an otherwise gridlocked Congress. The administration's ongoing backing will be important to our success. Today's declaration cannot be the end of their involvement. "Short-term disaster assistance is critical so that folks can make boat payments, insurance payments, pay mortgages and keep food on the table. It's estimated we'll need up to $80 million to make the fishers and their suppliers and other related businesses whole this year. But we also need to find long-term solutions to improve the health of the Klamath and maintain the fishing way of life."
06.28.2006	June 29, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—The Rail Leadership Award was presented to Representative Peter DeFazio of Oregon on June 28, 2006 at a reception given by the American Passenger Rail Coalition (APRC), a national association of railroad suppliers. The award is given to outstanding leaders in the U.S. Congress whose efforts have improved the quality of nationwide Amtrak service. The reception in honor of Representative DeFazio was held in Union Station and attended by a broad range of organizations including representatives of the U.S. railroad supply industry, rail passengers, Amtrak management, officials of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and individuals from other organizations that support U.S. passenger rail. "The American Passenger Rail Coalition is proud to present Representative Peter DeFazio with this year’s Rail Leadership Award in recognition of his long-standing commitment to improving the quality of nationwide Amtrak service," stated Mr. Guy Cierzan of the Carlson Marketing Group in Minnesota and Chairman of the APRC Board of Directors. "Representative DeFazio is a strong leader working to improve Amtrak’s future and a leader on the tremendous improvements that have taken place on the Pacific Northwest Rail Corridor, which is consistently rated one of Amtrak’s best by rail passengers." "I have long supported increased funding and investment in passenger rail," Representative DeFazio said. "In past federal highway and transit funding bills, I've been able to secure almost $12 million to renovate the Albany Train Station, and $3 million for renovation of the Eugene Train Station. I was instrumental in securing a special high speed rail corridor designation for the Northwest in the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act, enacted in 1991. I've also consistently supported increased funding for Amtrak. Amtrak will never live up to its full potential if it's consistently underfunded. Instead of targeting Amtrak for cuts, we should support and promote increased use of Amtrak." Congressman Peter DeFazio is in his 10th term in Congress and is the dean of the Oregon delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman DeFazio has served on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since he was elected to Congress in 1986 and is the third most senior Democrat on the Committee. He serves on the Railroads Subcommittee, the Subcommittee on Highways, Transit and Pipelines and the Aviation Subcommittee. Congressman DeFazio understands that investments in transportation infrastructure are essential to U.S. economic productivity and competitiveness and that these investments create and sustain thousands of good American jobs. Investments to improve the Pacific Northwest Rail Corridor, which provides passenger rail service from Eugene-Portland-Seattle-Vancouver, B.C., have resulted in a dramatic growth in ridership since the early 1990’s when new Talgo trains were put into service. Ridership on the corridor exceeded 620,000 in FY 2005. Congressman DeFazio played a key role in securing federal funds to restore the Albany and Eugene train stations into new intermodal facilities. Each year, Representative Peter DeFazio works with leadership on the Appropriations Committee to promote the highest possible annual funding for Amtrak. Representative DeFazio also supports investments to bring about high speed rail in key corridors and cosponsored the High Speed Rail Investment Act. He supported the RIDE-21 legislation, approved by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, to provide tax-credit and tax-exempt bonding authority for investments in rail infrastructure. Congressman DeFazio was an original cosponsor of the Rebuild America Act of 2003 that authorized the creation of Amtrak bonds to finance multi-year capital investments. "APRC is proud to present the Rail Leadership Award to Congressman DeFazio in appreciation of all he has and continues to do to support Amtrak," concluded Mr. Cierzan. Board Member companies of the American Passenger Rail Coalition are: Carlson Marketing Group; Arnold Worldwide; General Electric; IBM and LTK Engineering Services.
06.28.2006	Assistance is significant first step in federal disaster aid June 28, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—West Coast members of Congress today hailed a significant step in the fight for disaster assistance for salmon fishers. Representatives Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley and others attempted to offer an amendment that would provide $81 million in salmon disaster relief to the Science, State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2007. The Republican majority refused to allow a vote on the amendment. After several hours of procedural motions by Oregon Representatives Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley, and David Wu, and California Representatives Mike Thompson and George Miller, the majority relented and agreed to insert $2 million in disaster aid into the bill. This assistance is a placeholder for the conference committee where House members hope to work with the Oregon and California senators to significantly increase this amount. The amendment was approved by the House on a voice vote. "This is nowhere near the amount of funds necessary, but getting funding for disaster assistance included in this bill is a significant victory for our coastal communities," DeFazio said. "I appreciate Chairman Wolf and my colleagues for recognizing that fishing communities in Oregon and California vitally need our help. We'll be fighting to get more assistance in the Senate and the conference committee." This move by DeFazio and others was initiated after a meeting yesterday with National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) officials. In the meeting, NOAA officials acknowledged to the members that the West Coast salmon fishing season has been a disaster. However, the Department of Commerce still refuses to declare a disaster and say they will not be able to make a decision on a disaster declaration until at least February 2007.
06.21.2006	June 21, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today against H.R. 5638, a Republican bill that would permanently cut the tax on estates of the wealthiest Americans. Currently, the estate tax only affects estates worth over $4 million. The Internal Revenue Service estimates that approximately 165 Oregon estates are affected by this tax. In order to put this tax cut into effect, taxpayers will be forced to borrow $762 billion over ten years. "At a time of rising gas prices, health care costs and college tuition, it is insulting to the American people to ask them to pay for a tax cut for those who need it the least, and that's exactly what this bill does," DeFazio said. "It's particularly egregious considering Republican leaders also blocked a minimum wage increase today. I guess the heirs of multimillionaires are more of a priority than Americans struggling by at the minimum wage. "Our federal budget is already in deficit by $500 billion this year, with deficits projected to total $2.2 trillion over the next 10 years. We are spending $223 million a day on operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congress has already significantly shortchanged important programs like education and veterans' health care this year. Now is not the time to throw fiscal responsibility to the wind and enact extravagant tax cuts." H.R. 5638 would increase the amount of assets exempt from the estate tax to $10 million for couples. It would also dramatically lower the maximum tax rate. Fewer than 100 Oregon estates and 7,500 estates nationally will benefit from this bill annually. Forty-three percent of the tax cut will benefit estates worth $20 million or more; three-quarters of the cut will go toward estates worth $10 million or more. With the approval of this bill, the average effective estate tax rate would be lower than the federal payroll and income tax rates that workers typically face. Under this proposal, someone with an estate worth $25 million would pay a lower tax rate than a teacher earning an annual salary of $35,000.
06.21.2006	He also secured $2.5 million for the Northwest Manufacturing Initiative and $2.7 million for the Metals Affordability Initiative June 21, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio announced that he helped secure funding for several important projects, including research at three Oregon universities, in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2007. The legislation approved by the House of Representatives yesterday included $5.5 million for nanoscience and microtechnology research at Oregon's research universities, $2.5 million for the Brian, Biology and Machine Initiative at the University of Oregon, $2.5 million for the Northwest Manufacturing Initiative, and $2.7 million for the Metals Affordability Initiative. The legislation provides funding for the Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI), including $2 million for safer nanomaterials and nanomanufacturing development, $1 million for the miniature tactical energy systems development, and $2.5 million for continuing research in nanoelectronics and nanometrology. All three of these projects received federal funding in fiscal year 2006. ONAMI is a collaboration among government, industry and higher education, and is located on the campuses of Oregon's major research universities: Oregon State University, Portland State University and the University of Oregon. It builds upon already established work in nanoscale research and microtechnology-based energy, chemical and biological systems. ONAMI's Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing Initiative will develop materials and manufacturing methods that simultaneously meet the military's need for high performance materials, protect human health and minimize harm to the environment. ONAMI's Miniature Tactical Energy Systems Development Initiative has a wide range of military applications, including development of portable power systems for use by military personnel in the field for water purification and battery power. ONAMI's Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative conducts research into nanoscale electronic applications. Also included in the legislation was $2.5 million to continue research under the Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative at the University of Oregon. The program addresses fundamental questions about how humans think, learn and create, including questions about the range of brain processes that give rise to human cognition and the biological foundations of neurological disorders. Advances in cognitive neuroscience are helping to optimize the training and performance of military personnel, including the ability to function in stressful and complex environments. The funding in this bill will add to the over $13 million DeFazio has secured to date for the Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative. "The University of Oregon has long been known as a renowned research institution," DeFazio said. "The Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative continues in that distinguished tradition." The Northwest Manufacturing Initiative received $2.5 million in the bill. The purpose of this initiative is to make the Northwest region's diverse, value-added manufacturing sector a stronger contributor to the nation's defense and national security. The funding will be administered by the Oregon Economic Development Department and will be used to help improve the manufacturing capacity of small and medium-sized companies. Also funded was the Metals Affordability Initiative (MAI) for $2.7 million. MAI programs help reduce cost, increase industry and government collaboration, leverage technical resources and financial investment, and expedite development of new defense technologies. The legislation must now be approved by the Senate.
06.21.2006	Bill includes funding for pay raise and equipment for troops June 21, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted yesterday in favor of the fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations Act. The bill includes a 2.2 percent pay raise for troops and billions in funding for body armor, armored vehicles, and roadside bomb jammers. Overall, the bill was funded at $500 million above what President Bush requested in order to ensure the National Guard has the equipment it needs. "While the bill included several provisions I did not support-like $9 billion for the failed Star Wars program, which does nothing to protect us from the threat of nuclear weapons smuggled through our ports, and funding for three virtually identical fighter jet programs-it also included vital funding for our troops," DeFazio said. "The funding in this bill helps ensure that our men and women in uniform have the equipment they need to do their jobs." DeFazio also joined Rep. Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) in offering an amendment to the Defense Appropriations bill that would ensure that the president could not launch military strikes against Iran without a vote in Congress. The amendment failed. Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution requires the president to get authorization from Congress before taking military action. "The amendment I supported would ensure that before the president takes any military action against Iran, he must first get authorization from Congress," DeFazio said. "Members of the House of Representatives have been elected by their constituents to participate in major decisions like initiating military strikes against other countries, and it is an injustice to the American people to deny them that prerogative. Congress must get some backbone and defend the Constitution. "Republicans in Congress rushed to defend the Constitution and the separation of powers after the FBI raided the office of a member of Congress, but they're willing to abdicate their constitutional responsibilities on the most grave matter of sending our men and women into war. Congress needs to stand up for its constitutional responsibilities, and not just when its own members will benefit."
06.21.2006	House Committee approves legislation providing partial funding stream; Congressmen remain focused on fully funding "county payments" law June 21, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—The House Resources Committee today approved a bipartisan amendment offered by Oregon Congressmen Greg Walden, R-Hood River, and Peter DeFazio, D-Springfield, that would provide an annual revenue stream to partially fund the critical Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2005 (H.R. 517), which would reauthorize the "county payments" program. Walden and DeFazio are cosponsors of H.R. 517 and are leading the effort in the House to see it is enacted. The Walden-DeFazio amendment, approved unanimously by the committee, was made to the bipartisan Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act, which would give coastal states the option to allow energy exploration on America's outer continental shelf (OCS). The amendment mandates that $50 million of new royalties collected by the federal government from companies engaged in OCS exploration be automatically directed to the county payments program each year for five years, for a total of $250 million. Although $250 million is only a portion of the total amount needed for the federal government to meet its commitment to timber communities throughout America, Walden and DeFazio believe this is an important first step and they remain strongly committed to their bipartisan effort in the House and Senate to find revenue streams to reach the $450 million annually to fully fund the program. Following today's committee vote, Walden and DeFazio issued the following joint statement: "We fully recognize that this amendment to provide $250 million to pay for the county roads and schools program is only the first step forward in what is an incremental approach toward fully funding this program. This funding source gets us one-ninth of the way. In effect, we've gotten through the first inning of the game, but we have eight more to go before we can declare a true victory. "As we have said all along, getting this program reauthorized will require creative work. We will continue to look at each and every available option to provide a revenue stream that will allow the federal government to maintain its century-old commitment to the counties and schools in forested areas that depend on this assistance. With this first step, the Senate and House can now build upon this foundation. "More than 100 years ago, Congress recognized that these counties and communities with federally owned forestland within their boundaries would not be able to provide basic services because of the reduction in local property tax base. Congress also recognized that national forests exist for the benefit of an entire nation, and therefore, the entire nation has a role in maintaining the health of our forests and their surrounding communities. "The county payments program has been praised by organizations from the farthest ends of the spectrum as a model partnership among local, state and federal interests. There is no question that this program funds vital county services in hundreds of counties across America. "We appreciate the support shown today by our colleagues on the House Resources Committee in taking a first step toward funding the county payments program and look forward to earning the approval of the full House and additional support in the Senate. However, we recognize that much work remains and we will stay focused on our ultimate goal." H.R. 517 was passed by the House Resources Committee last year and is currently awaiting action in the House Agriculture Committee. S 267 is its companion legislation in the Senate, sponsored by Senators Larry Craig, R-Id, and Ron Wyden, D-Ore. More information on H.R. 517, which has 104 additional cosponsors, and S 267, which has 24 additional cosponsors, is available on the web at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon; Congressman DeFazio represents the 4th District of Oregon.
06.19.2006	June 16, 2006 Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today against H. Res 861, a partisan resolution which would rubberstamp the Bush administration's poor planning and mismanagement of the Iraq war. The resolution endorses the Republican plan to stay the course in Iraq, with an open-ended commitment and no end in sight. A vote in favor of the resolution is a vote for staying in Iraq until at least 2009. "I am disappointed that H. Res. 861 is a truly hollow effort," DeFazio said. "Despite the eloquent words used, the resolution has no legally binding impact. It does nothing to require a re-evaluation of U.S. policies in Iraq or to change the status quo. It does nothing to address the mistakes that have been made in Iraq. "We all honor our troops. But we disagree, not on the noble service of the troops, but on the competence of the leadership of President Bush, Vice President Cheney, and Secretary Rumsfeld in initiating an unnecessary war in Iraq and insisting on an open-ended indefinite commitment of U.S. troops in the middle of a civil war. "The U.S. cannot impose freedom, security, and unity in Iraq by force. The U.S. cannot force Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds to make peace or to act for the common good. Nor should the U.S. military be forced to remain in Iraq essentially as an army for one side of a civil war. "I believe our military has already done all that has been asked of them. Saddam Hussein is on trial. The threat from alleged weapons of mass destruction programs in Iraq has been neutralized. The programs do not exist, and didn't before the war for that matter. The Iraqi people have written and adopted a new constitution and elected a new government. It is time to turn over control of the country to the Iraqi government, Iraqi security forces, and the Iraqi people to build their own future. "A plan to bring the bulk of our troops home from Iraq would free up intelligence and defense assets to redeploy to fight al-Qaeda, particularly in Afghanistan and along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, and could also help the United States in our broader fight against Islamic extremists with global ambitions. "It is unfortunate that the Republican leadership continues to prohibit an open and honest debate about the fight against radical Islamic terrorists like al-Qaeda, and the distinct issue of the best strategy for bringing our troops home from Iraq. The American people deserve better." For Congressman DeFazio's full statement, please go to https://defazio.house.gov/ To receive radio actuality, contact Maria Leavey at 703-418-2060.
06.19.2006	June 15, 2006 The SPEAKER pro tempore: Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DeFazio) is recognized for 5 minutes. Mr. DeFAZIO: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss H.Res. 861. The Republican leadership has been promising for weeks that the House would have a genuine debate about the future of U.S. military involvement in Iraq. Given that promise, I am disappointed that H.Res. 861 is a truly hollow effort. Despite the eloquent words used, the resolution has no legally binding impact. It does nothing to require a re-evaluation of U.S. policies in Iraq or to change the status quo. It does nothing to address the mistakes that have been made in Iraq. The American people, particularly our troops serving honorably in difficult circumstances in Iraq, deserve more than cheerleading and sloganeering. Unfortunately, empty promises are all this resolution offers. A vote for this resolution is a vote for the status quo. It is a vote for staying indefinitely in Iraq, perhaps a decade or longer. It is a vote for continuing with the current policies with no end in sight. I cannot support endorsing the status quo. On March 21, 2006, President Bush actually said that the question of bringing home U.S. troops from Iraq "will be decided by future presidents," signaling that U.S. troops will not be home until 2009 at the earliest. The American people need to understand that a vote in favor of this resolution is a vote to stay in Iraq until at least 2009. Let me address my specific concerns with the text of the resolution. First, I am concerned that the resolution inappropriately lumps Iraq in with the so-called global war on terror. It was Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda who attacked the U.S. on September 11, 2001, not Saddam Hussein and Iraq. I believe it was a mistake to move intelligence and military assets away from the fight against al-Qaeda, which did not have a presence in Iraq prior to the U.S. invasion, in order to attack Iraq. Iraq did not pose a direct threat to U.S. national security, had not attacked the U.S., and could be contained with sanctions, inspections, and no-fly zones. Second, and perhaps of most concern, the resolution endorses keeping U.S. troops in Iraq until there is a "sovereign, free, secure, and united Iraq." By that standard, the U.S. will be in Iraq for a decade or more. That is unacceptable and unnecessary. And, in fact, it undermines U.S. national security by indefinitely tying up U.S. intelligence and military assets that could be better used finding Osama bin Laden and breaking the back of al-Qaeda around the world. The U.S. cannot impose freedom, security, and unity in Iraq by force. Those worthy goals can only be achieved by the Iraqi people themselves, which will only happen when the Iraqi people and their leaders decide to put aside their sectarian differences. The U.S. cannot force Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds to make peace or to act for the common good. They have been in conflict for 1,400 years. Nor should the U.S. military be forced to remain in Iraq essentially as an army for one side of a civil war. As long as the U.S. military remains stuck with the president's pledge of unending, open-ended support, Iraqi politicians and security forces will use the U.S. presence as a crutch. Establishing a timeline to bring the bulk of our troops home and redeploy others to fight al-Qaeda would force the Iraqi people, politicians and security forces to resolve their differences, establish an effective and inclusive government, end sectarian violence and create a secure society. The U.S. military cannot solve the sectarian problems in Iraq. Only the Iraqis can. Proponents of the resolution say that those like me who want our troops to come home are defeatist and want to cut and run from Iraq. To the contrary, I believe the U.S. military has already done all that has been asked of them. Saddam Hussein is on trial. The threat from alleged weapons of mass destruction programs in Iraq has been neutralized. The programs do not exist, and didn't before the war for that matter. The Iraqi people have written and adopted a new constitution and elected a new government. It is time to turn over control of the country to the Iraqi government, Iraqi security forces, and the Iraqi people to build their own future. Second, the resolution contains the blatantly false assertion that negotiating a timeline for bringing U.S. troops home with the Iraqi government undermines U.S. national security. Such a statement shows a misunderstanding of the enemy we face in Iraq. Although today the president and proponents of this resolution fail to distinguish between the various enemies we face in Iraq, in a speech on December 12, 2005, the president actually did make important distinctions between the insurgent elements in Iraq. He mentioned "rejectionists," which are mostly Sunni Arabs who miss the privileged status they enjoyed under Saddam Hussein. He mentioned "Saddamists", who are former regime elements who want to return to power. Again, they are Sunni Arabs. And, he mentioned foreign terrorists affiliated with or inspired by al-Qaeda, which even the president acknowledged was the "smallest" element of the insurgency. The one huge element he left out was nationalist Shias, such as those influenced by Moqtada al-Sadr. The reality is that the rejectionists, Saddamists, and nationalist Shias, who combined make up the vast bulk of the insurgents in Iraq, have no interest in attacking the U.S. homeland. They just want U.S. military forces out of their own country. They have no designs on our country. So it is misleading, at best, to argue that if we don't fight the insurgents there, we will fight them in the streets of the United States. Even the foreign terrorist elements in Iraq seem more focused on igniting a Shia-Sunni civil war in the Middle East and attacking regimes they consider infidels in the region, such the Jordanian monarchy. It is also misleading to pretend that if the U.S. leaves that somehow Osama bin Laden will take control of Iraq. There is no chance that the Shias and Kurds, who represent around 80 percent of the population in Iraq, will allow foreign terrorist elements to take over the country. Even the majority of the Sunnis have grown tired of foreign terrorists operating in Iraq. With respect to the argument about waiting us out, as long as the Sunni, Shia and Kurds cannot resolve their political differences, violence will continue in Iraq. It is not a matter of whether we're there or not. It is ridiculous to assume that the insurgent elements will stop attacking once a timeline for bringing U.S. troops home is announced and will wait to start again until after we leave. I believe that negotiating a timeline for bringing U.S. forces home is a prerequisite for stabilizing Iraq over the next several months. Announcing the termination of the open-ended U.S. military commitment in Iraq and providing a concrete plan, including a timeline negotiated with the Iraqi government, for bringing our troops home would undermine support for insurgents. Public opinion polls show that nearly 9 in 10 Iraqis support announcing a timeline for U.S. withdrawal and 70 percent want the U.S. out by the end of 2007. The U.S. cannot want to stay in Iraq more than the Iraqis themselves want us there. As, the Commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, General George Casey, testified to Congress last year, "the perception of occupation in Iraq is a major driving force behind the insurgency." A specific withdrawal plan, with benchmarks for measuring success in stabilizing Iraq, could unite Iraqis, Sunni, Shia and Kurd, against the foreign terrorists operating in Iraq. That would be a key turning point in stabilizing the country. A timeline for bringing U.S. troops home that is negotiated with the Iraqi government would also boost the Iraqi government's legitimacy and claim to self-rule, and force the Iraqi government to take responsibility for itself and its citizens. Negotiating a timeline and strategy with the Iraqi government could, more than possibly anything else, improve the standing of the Iraqi government in the eyes of its own people, a significant achievement in a region in which the standing of rulers and governments is generally low. Similarly, establishing a firm timeline for bringing our troops home could accelerate the development of Iraqi security forces and deepen their commitment to defending their own country and their own government. It would eliminate the conflict they now feel by working with what many of them see as an occupying force. It would allow them to defend a sovereign Iraqi government, rather than fight alongside U.S. forces. A plan to bring the bulk of our troops home from Iraq and free up intelligence and defense assets to redeploy to fight al-Qaeda, particularly in Afghanistan and along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, could also help the United States in our broader fight against Islamic extremists with global ambitions. It would make the U.S. safer by taking away a recruiting tool and training ground. Former Director of the CIA, Porter Goss, testified to Congress that, "Islamic extremists are exploiting the Iraqi conflict to recruit new anti-U.S. jihadists. These jihadists who survive will leave Iraq experienced and focused on acts of urban terrorism." He went on to say, "The Iraq conflict, while not a cause of extremism, has become a cause for extremists." In addition to a timeline, I have proposed that U.S. troops be removed from front line combat positions in Iraqi cities and towns, turning over daily security patrols, interactions with citizens, and any offensive security actions to the Iraqis themselves. The training and equipping of Iraqi security forces should be accelerated. The U.S. must renounce any U.S. interest in constructing permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq. It is also important to accelerate reconstruction spending and grant the bulk of reconstruction contracts to local companies employing Iraqis rather than multinational corporations, whom have proven inefficient, inflexible, sometimes fraudulent and have even imported workers rather than employing Iraqis. The U.S. embassy in Baghdad should also be reduced to normal size and authority rather than establishing one of the largest embassies in the world. Third, I am concerned that the resolution continues to mislead the American people about the threat posed by Saddam Hussein. Saddam Hussein was a brutal tyrant. I am glad he is now on trial for crimes against humanity. But, opposition to a dictator is not the measure I use when deciding whether to send our men and women in uniform off to war and possible death. For me, there must be a direct threat to U.S. national security to justify the sacrifice of the blood and wealth of fellow Americans. In the case of Iraq, I didn't see that. The resolution claims that Hussein "supported terrorists" and "constituted a grave threat against global peace and security." Saddam Hussein did pay the families of Palestinian suicide bombers. So in that sense he did support terrorists, but he did not support the terrorists who attacked the U.S. The 9/11 Commission and other experts have found no operational links between Iraq and al-Qaeda. Further, as I previously mentioned, Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction programs and could be contained by sanctions, inspections and no-fly zones. Finally, I would like to bring my colleagues attention to a survey of 100 top foreign policy experts just released by the Center for American Progress and Foreign Policy magazine. The survey indicates that despite the cheerleading we're hearing on the House floor today, the U.S. is not winning the war against Islamic terrorists and Iraq has undermined our efforts. More than 80 percent of the experts surveyed believe the U.S. is becoming less safe. Even 71 percent of the self-identified conservative experts said the U.S. is not winning the war on terror. Twenty-eight percent of respondents, including 26 percent of the conservatives, said the Iraq war is the principal reason the U.S. is less safe, second only to the more generic reason of rising Muslim hostility toward the U.S. An astonishing 87 percent of respondents, including 69 percent of conservatives said that the war in Iraq has had a negative impact on U.S. security and nearly 60 percent said the U.S. needs to put more focus on bringing our troops home. The results of this survey of top foreign policy experts from across the ideological spectrum are sobering and directly contradict the blind optimism and endorsement of the status quo that is reflected in H.Res. 861. It is unfortunate that the Republican leadership continues to prohibit an open and honest debate about the fight against radical Islamic terrorists like al-Qaeda, and the distinct issue of the best strategy for bringing our troops home from Iraq. The American people deserve better.
06.19.2006	The SPEAKER pro tempore: Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DeFazio) is recognized for 5 minutes. Mr. DeFAZIO: Mr. Speaker, I just recently sent 850 Oregonians off to Afghanistan to fight the resurgent Taliban and Osama bin Laden, the perpetrators of 9/11. September 14, this House, on a proud day, with one exception, voted to authorize the war in Afghanistan to take out the Taliban, take out the perpetrators of 9/11, al Qaeda. That was nearly unanimous. But sadly, the Bush administration and the Republicans in Congress distracted us onto a path of a war in Iraq 1,143 days ago. 2,497 servicemen killed, 18,490 wounded. First it was weapons of mass destruction. Then it was about 9/11. Then it was about building democracy. But now the Republicans want to pretend that it has to do all about the war on terrorism. They mentioned al Zarqawi. The Pentagon wanted to take out al Zarqawi. They had him in their sights before the war in Iraq , and the Bush White House and DICK CHENEY wouldn't let them because it would hurt recruitment for the coalition of the willing to invade Iraq , where al Qaeda did not exist. If you strip out the rhetoric from this nonbinding resolution, with no Democratic alternative, no amendments allowed, it is a stay the course resolution with an open-ended commitment. As the President said, a future President will decide when U.S. troops will leave. The SPEAKER pro tempore: Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DeFazio) is recognized for 5 minutes. Mr. DeFAZIO: Mr. Speaker, despite the rhetoric on the other side of the aisle, ground zero on the global war on terror is not, never was Iraq . It was Afghanistan; 9/11, it was planned in Afghanistan by Osama bin Laden, al Qaeda, with the complicit help of the Taliban. In a near-unanimous vote on the floor of this House, we voted to go in there and root them out and end that threat once and forever. But something bad happened on the road to victory, and the eradication of the Taliban and al Qaeda, and the capture, dead or alive, dead or alive, of Osama bin Laden. Remember that. We got mired in Iraq . And today the Taliban, al Qaeda, and Osama bin Laden are still at large and they are resurgent. I just saw 800 Oregonians off to Afghanistan. We need more troops there. We need to finish the job we abandoned to go into Iraq. But 1,093 days ago, a complicit, compliant Republican-dominated Congress acceded to the Presidential demand to divert our energy into an unnecessary war in Iraq . I was one of the 60 percent of the Democrats to vote ``no.'' Here we are, 2,497 troops have died, 18,490 seriously wounded. We all honor those troops and do not question that. But we disagree, not on the noble service of the troops, but the competence of the leadership of President Bush, Vice President Cheney, and Secretary Rumsfeld in initiating an unnecessary war in Iraq and insisting on an open-ended, indefinite commitment of U.S. troops in the middle of a civil war. The President has said, ``Bringing U.S. troops home from Iraq will be decided by future Presidents.'' That means after 2009. That is what George Bush is talking about. That is not acceptable. At its core, this resolution says stay the course indefinitely. We should be debating a real policy on Iraq , not a nonbinding politically motivated resolution. We should be debating the Murtha resolution, a real plan. As a member of the Out of Iraq Caucus, I resent the fact that we have here a meaningless, nonbinding Karl Rove-politically inspired resolution on the floor, not amendable, no substitutes allowed; and they call that a debate on the policy in Iraq. They say they are honoring the troops. That is a dishonor to the people of America and those who serve us. And they talk about cut and run. We have won. Saddam Hussein, he is on trial. They have a Constitution. They have a government. They have succeeded. We have succeeded. But they have a sectarian problem. They have been fighting for 1,400 years. And they are going to continue fighting. We need to negotiate a timetable with their legitimate government to get the U.S. troops redeployed, out of Iraq , to other hot spots and bring the remainder home.
06.15.2006	June 13, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—A provision to block a rate increase proposed by President Bush for Northwest energy consumers was included in a supplemental funding bill passed today in the House. The provision was included at the request of the bipartisan House Northwest Energy Caucus, which is co-chaired by Reps. DeFazio (D-OR), Walden (R-OR) and Hastings (R-WA), and the Northwest senators. The supplemental bill provides emergency funding for Hurricane Katrina reconstruction, operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, border security and preparation for the avian flu. The Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) provision will block a Bush administration proposal to capture a portion of BPA future revenues to be used to accelerate repayment of federal debt, rather than to reduce Northwest power rates. Experts estimate the proposal would have raised Northwest power rates by 10 percent. "The president's proposed rate increase would have placed an unjustified burden on energy consumers in the Northwest," DeFazio said. "I am pleased that Congress recognized this and agreed to block the increase. "The bill will also provide critical funding for our troops, including enhanced protective equipment and improved benefits. It will also provide needed funding to the regions hardest hit by hurricanes last year, to better patrol the border and to prepare for an avian flu pandemic." The bill, the Fiscal Year 2006 Iraq and Katrina Supplemental Conference Report, provides $19.8 billion for Katrina reconstruction, $65.8 billion for the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, $1.9 billion for border security and $2.3 billion for avian flu preparations. What's next? The Senate and the House of Representatives each passed a version of the Supplemental Conference report earlier this year. A conference committee worked out the differences between the two bills and drafted a final bill, which passed the House today. The legislation must pass the Senate one more time before it can be sent to the President to be signed into law.
06.15.2006	June 13, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House voted for an automatic cost of living increase for members' salaries, increasing them to $168,500. U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio has voted against and forgone all congressional salary increases since being elected to Congress. Instead, he has tied his salary to cost of living adjustments (COLAs) for Social Security recipients, and used the excess pay to fund scholarships for dislocated workers at five community colleges in southwest Oregon and to pay down the national debt. By the end of this year, he will have turned back more than $260,000 and funded 157 scholarships. "America is teetering on the edge of bankruptcy," DeFazio said. "We need to get our fiscal house in order, and part of the solution rests in reducing expenditures. Cuts should start at the top. Congress shouldn't feather its own nest when so many of our nation's needs are unmet and so many families are struggling to get by. That's why I have voted against congressional pay raises and instead have donated the money to reduce the debt and for dislocated workers to get retrained." DeFazio supported the previous question on the rule on H.R. 5576, the fiscal year 2007 Transportation, Treasury, and HUD Appropriations bill, which would have allowed a vote on the member's COLA, rather than allowing it to automatically go into effect. The previous question was defeated by a vote of 249-167.
06.15.2006	June 13, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—A leading Jewish, pro-Israel group, Americans for Peace Now (APN), sent the following letter to Congressman Peter DeFazio thanking him for his vote against H.R. 4681, a bill that would impose sanctions against the Palestinian Authority. These sanctions would weaken and undermine moderate Palestinian interests, not just those connected to Hamas. The Honorable Peter DeFazio U.S. House of Representatives 2134 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 May 23, 2006 Dear Congressman DeFazio: On behalf of Americans for Peace Now (APN) I want to commend you for your wise and courageous vote today on HR 4681. APN is the premier Jewish, Zionist organization working to enhance Israel's security through peace. Everyone agrees that it is important to send a strong message to Hamas that terrorism will never be tolerated, and everyone agrees that there should be no U.S. assistance to the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority unless it undergoes a real transformation. This is a policy that, in fact, has already been put into place by the Bush Administration. In the wake of the Hamas election, Congress had an opportunity to send just such a message to Hamas, with carefully crafted, focused legislation that clearly distinguished between terrorists and non-terrorists; supported Palestinian civilians, especially the more than 50% of the Palestinian population who are children; and provided a political horizon for Palestinian moderates who might one day re-emerge to lead the Palestinian people. Instead, Congress elected to use the Hamas victory as a pretext for imposing far-reaching sanctions, many of which are unrelated to Hamas, terror, and security, and many of which conflict with the interests of both the U.S. and Israel. As an organization deeply committed to Israel and the quest for peace and security in the Middle East, we cannot help but strongly oppose this wrong-headed and reckless approach. While supporters of HR 4681 tried to portray the bill as a simple and necessary measure to cut off U.S. aid to the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority, even the most cursory reading of the text of HR 4681 makes clear that the bill goes far beyond dealing with Hamas. Rather, it seeks to permanently limit, constrain, bar, or condition virtually every facet of U.S. relations with the Palestinians, even at the risk of endangering U.S. national security, strengthening extremists, and undermining key U.S. interests. The Administration has deemed HR 4681 fundamentally flawed - a description with which APN is in agreement. We applaud your courageous vote on HR 4681, and we urge you to continue to reject efforts to translate frustration with the current situation into legislation that will only make the prospects for peace more distant. Sincerely, /s/ Debra DeLee President & CEO Americans for Peace Now Lara Friedman Government Relations Director Americans for Peace Now
06.15.2006	June 09, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted last night against a telecommunications bill that favors telecom giants over small businesses and lacks adequate consumer protections. The so-called Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Enhancement (COPE) Act of 2006, H.R. 5252, passed by a vote of 321 to 101. An amendment offered by Representative Ed Markey, which would have ensured "net neutrality" in the bill, failed. DeFazio voted for the Markey amendment. Net neutrality is the principle that ensures small and independent web sites open just as easily on people's computers as sites run by large corporations do. As a result of lobbying efforts by large telecom firms, COPE includes provisions that would require community groups, small businesses and everyday people to pay fees to ensure their web sites open as quickly as those run by large firms. In addition, the bill would grant telecom companies a national franchise, which would mean companies would not be required to provide cable TV service in rural areas or extend service beyond the most profitable areas in cities. Such a national franchise would also remove the little oversight that local governments have over cable service providers and remove their authority over rights of way. "Ten years ago, I was one of only 16 members of Congress to vote against the 1996 Telecom Act because I did not believe it would result in more choices, better quality, and lower prices for consumers," DeFazio said. "I've been proven right-few of the promises have come true. "The COPE Act aims to update the Telecom Act, but does nothing to improve the consumer protections lacking in the 1996 bill. The only people it benefits are the bigwigs at telecom companies, who will now be able to legally discriminate against folks who cannot afford to pay higher rates for services which they now receive for free, or who happen to live in rural areas. The Internet is a great example of ingenuity and innovation at work, and we should not stifle that by passing legislation that favors the wealthy and powerful."
06.15.2006	June 09, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio announced today that the House passed the fiscal year 2007 Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs Appropriations bill, which included grant consideration for important projects for Albany-based Hydration Technologies, Inc., and Oregon State University. DeFazio requested funding for both projects earlier this year. Hydration Technologies, Inc., has created a forward osmosis individual water purification system, which can be used in places where contaminated water is prevalent to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, and lower rates of illness among children. These water purification systems can be incorporated into infant formula packaging, guaranteeing individual mothers sterile fluids from any water source, or can be used to provide bulk water at clinics and hospitals around the world. If funded, the grant would be used to test the efficacy of the purification system. Oregon State University's Program for Water Conflict Prevention and Resolution would provide specialized resources and skills to prevent and resolve water conflicts. Water that crosses boundaries often creates disputes between users. If funded, the grant money would be used to reduce conflict by supplying decision makers and water professionals with specialized resources and skills to prevent and resolve conflicts. Next step: The Senate has not yet acted on its version of the fiscal year 2007 Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs Appropriations bill. Once the Senate has acted, a conference committee will be formed to resolve differences between the two bills before a final bill is approved by both bodies and sent to the president for his signature.
06.15.2006	June 08, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio is proud to announce that $250,000 for Lane Transit District (LTD) and $100,000 for West Eugene Wetlands Education Center have been included in the fiscal year 2007 Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The LTD also received a $1,351,372 grant from the Federal Transit Administration. $250,000 for LTD's Pioneer Parkway EmX Corridor The Pioneer Parkway EmX service will connect downtown Springfield with the rapidly developing Gateway/River Bend area to the north. Pioneer Parkway will be the second EmX corridor. Planning for the corridor has proceeded through initial conceptual design, development, and preliminary environmental screening. The funding will be used for engineering, design, and construction of the Pioneer Parkway EmX Corridor. $100,000 for West Eugene Wetlands Education Center The funding will be used for construction of a Field Science Laboratory as a component of the West Eugene Wetlands Educational Center. The City of Eugene will build the laboratory. $1,351,372 for LTD awarded by the Federal Transit Administration The grant will go toward the purchase of hybrid electric buses that will be used on the Franklin EmX BRT Corridor.
06.15.2006	June 07, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted today against House Republicans' most recent attempt to convince the American people that they are working to reduce gas prices, the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act (H.R. 5254). Premised on the misguided assumption that environmental regulations are slowing the issuance of refinery permits, the bill would create a new federal bureaucrat to coordinate the process and would impose additional procedural requirements on state and local governments. The additional bureaucracy is more likely to delay the process, not improve it. "This bill would do nothing to reduce gas prices," DeFazio said. "While it is true that more refineries would help lower gas prices, oil company memos tell us that it is oil company executives themselves who have shut down refineries in order to keep profit margins high. Not one of the 55 refineries shuttered in the last 10 years was closed for environmental reasons. They were closed to curtail capacity and drive up profits. The refinery share of a gallon of gas is up 2.55 percent in 1 year. "It is ironic that the party of small government has proposed adding more regulations and bureaucracy to the issuance of refinery permits, claiming it will improve the process. Americans deserve an effective, comprehensive solution to the problem of high gas prices and growing dependence on foreign oil. Unfortunately, all they get out of this Republican Congress is a lot of hot air." As an alternative, DeFazio supports several measures that would address rising gas prices: He voted for H.R. 5253, which will outlaw price gouging by oil companies, and create strong penalties for gouging. It will also permit states to bring lawsuits against wholesalers or retailers for price gouging. He sponsored H.R.3544, which would impose a windfall profits tax on oil producers and refiners, ensuring that oil companies do not profit on the backs of American consumers. It would also increase fuel efficiency standards and crack down on oil monopolies by imposing a moratorium on oil company mergers. He cosponsored H.R. 4409, which would require a reduction in U.S. oil consumption by 2.5 million barrels a day within 10 years by investing in alternative fuels and conservation. He cosponsored H.R. 5248, which would subject all oil trading to the same regulation as other commodities to ensure markets aren't manipulated by speculators trading oil behind closed doors. (To receive radio actuality, contact Maria Leavey at 703-418-2060)
06.15.2006	DeFazio amendment would have fully funded Office of Inspector General May 26, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio offered an amendment yesterday to the FY 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Act that would have increased funding for the Office of Inspector General (OIG). The amendment was defeated by a vote of 200 to 220. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which is expected to pass the House in June, provides critical funding for border and transportation security, preparedness grants and training, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and the Coast Guard. The bill provides a total of $33.1 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion over the previous year. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) OIG uncovers waste, fraud and abuse throughout the agency and provides directions to the agency on how to improve security and avoid waste in the future. DeFazio offered an amendment that would have increased funding for the OIG in FY 2007 by $11.5 million. This additional funding would have helped make up a shortfall in the office's budget, ensuring that the OIG could continue to aggressively conduct oversight of the Department's activities and programs, despite the enormous strain that the continued oversight of the Hurricane Katrina response and recovery have caused. "While this bill will increase funding for homeland security over last year, it falls short of properly protecting the American public," DeFazio said. "In light of the many needs, it's even more important we have a robust Office of the Inspector General to ensure limited taxpayer dollars are not being wasted or misspent. "The Inspector General not only guards taxpayer dollars, but also works to reveal gaps in homeland security policies and operations in this huge, disjointed agency," DeFazio said. "We can't afford to ease up on oversight of the TSA, Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or FEMA. My amendment would have ensured adequate funding to allow the OIG to continue its work in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina without sacrificing critical ongoing oversight of the rest of DHS."
06.15.2006	May 24, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today announced that the House of Representatives approved legislation which includes funding for dredging south coast ports, including an additional $500,000 in funds for a major maintenance report and analysis of the north jetty at the Port of Coos Bay. The funding, requested by DeFazio earlier this year, was included in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. Included in the bill approved today was funding for dredging operations at the following ports: Port of Siuslaw: $486,000 Port of Umpqua: $979,000 Port of Coos Bay: $4,689,000 Port of Bandon: $275,000 Port of Orford: $273,000 Port of Gold Beach: $483,000 Port of Brookings Harbor: $451,000 "Despite the tight budget year, I am pleased I was able to secure some funding for dredging operations at each of Oregon's south coast ports," DeFazio said. "However, it falls far short of what is needed to adequately maintain safe and navigable channels at each of these ports. I cannot state too strongly the crucial role dredging plays in the economic livelihood of the region. I plan to work with my colleagues in the Senate to attempt to increase the funding for dredging operations on the Oregon coast." Oregon's coastal channels are heavily used by recreational boaters and commercial fisherman. The coastal channels have become the mainstays of communities dealing with declining employment in natural resource industries.
06.15.2006	DeFazio secures funding for Hydration Technologies, Inc., armed forces center expansion; supports increased funding for veterans May 19, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today voted for legislation that would increase funding for veterans' health care programs. The bill, H.R. 5385, also included funding DeFazio secured for Hydration Technologies, Inc., in Albany, OR, and for an expansion of the Oregon National Guard's headquarters in Salem. "I supported this bill because veterans' programs need increased funding," DeFazio said. "Today's legislation increases funding for veterans' medical services by 12 percent, with $2.8 billion specifically for mental health care. However, more will be needed to fulfill the promises we've made to our vets." DeFazio supported efforts to provide an additional $1.8 billion to meet the health care needs of veterans. This funding would have been offset by scaling back tax cuts for millionaires by $5,000, still leaving them with a $109,000 tax cut. However, this amendment was blocked by the Republican leadership. "It's a sad day when Congress puts tax cuts for millionaires over the health care needs of those who protect and serve this country," DeFazio said. "The administration and the Republican leadership have the wrong priorities. Our veterans deserve better." DeFazio secured $2.5 million for the research and development of a water filtering device for use by the U.S. military at Albany-based Hydration Technologies. Last year, DeFazio secured $2.1 million for the Forward Osmosis Downed Pilot Hydration System, which will allow pilots and crew to filter any water source to produce a safe drinking solution. This project will increase survivability not only for aircrews in the military, but for others in dire situations. "Providing safe, drinkable water for U.S. troops in remote areas is an ongoing challenge for the military," DeFazio said. "Most effective filtration systems are cumbersome and expensive. Albany's Hydration Technologies, Inc. has found a safe, easy and affordable way to produce consumable fluids from a contaminated water source. This technology will be invaluable to the U.S. military and has potential for civilian application in emergency relief situations." The bill also included $749,000 to plan and design an expansion of the Oregon National Guard's Joint Forces Headquarters in Salem. DeFazio, along with other members of the Oregon delegation, requested the money this year. "As the U.S. military enhances the role of the National Guard, and increases the responsibilities and burdens placed on these citizen-soldiers, the federal government has a responsibility to provide additional resources so the National Guard can successfully carry out their mission," DeFazio said. Since the headquarters was constructed in 1991, staffing has increased by almost 40 percent. Three-quarters of the classroom space has been converted to office space due to demands placed on the headquarters by the National Guard Bureau. The funding will help ensure the Oregon National Guard can effectively fulfill their state and national missions. Companion legislation must now be approved by the Senate.
06.15.2006	Cuts in vital services make way for tax breaks for millionaires May 18, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted against the House Republican budget resolution yesterday that will make deficits worse, continue tax cuts for the wealthy, borrow and spend every single penny of the Social Security surplus, and fail to adequately fund key priorities including health care, veterans' benefits, education, and Homeland Security. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 218 to 210. "This legislation reveals the true priorities of the Republican majority in Congress," DeFazio said. "It attempts to balance the budget on the backs of students, seniors, working Americans, veterans, patients, and the environment to make way for billions in additional tax cuts primarily aimed at the wealthiest among us. "Over the next five years, the budget will freeze funding for health care research. It includes the largest cuts to education in 23 years. Even those who have served our country in the military are forced to sacrifice in order to fund tax cuts for millionaires. Under the Republican budget, veterans' health care will be cut by $6 billion over the next five years. "In addition, this budget will set a new record for deficits. This year will be the fifth consecutive year of the largest deficits in our nation's history. This budget will also increase the national debt by another $2.3 trillion. And, it borrows every single penny of the Social Security surplus to pay for other spending and tax cuts for the Paris Hiltons in the country. "I supported a budget alternative that better reflects the needs and priorities of the American people. The budget I supported would balance the budget by 2012 and yet better fund vital services. It would provide more funding for health care, education, and first responders. And, it would extend tax relief for middle class families, including the child tax credit and marriage penalty relief, while requiring millionaires and billionaires to pay their fair share. "It is time to return to the fiscal responsibility of the 1990s that helped balance the budget and contributed to sustained and strong economic growth that benefited all Americans, not just those in corporate boardrooms and sprawling mansions. It is time to give more of a helping hand to middle income and working America and let the rich help carry their fair share of the load. It is time for new priorities in this Congress."
06.15.2006	May 11, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio voted yesterday against a tax conference bill that would extend the capital gains and dividends tax breaks, which overwhelmingly benefit the wealthiest Americans. Under the bill, H.R. 4297, the money for the tax breaks would be borrowed, increasing the deficit by $70 billion. "What contempt the leaders in Congress have for the American people," DeFazio said. "They are not only cutting programs essential to the middle class, like student loans, but they are borrowing in their name to give to rich investors. At the same time, they let a modest tax deduction for parents who help pay their kids' college tuition expire this year. Too expensive, they said. Yet the extension of tax breaks for investment incomes cost 10 times as much. "The investor tax cuts the Republicans are proposing to extend will give an average cut of only $16 to those who make between $30,000 and 40,000 a year. But the lucky winners, the households who earn more than $1 million per year, would receive an average tax cut of $42,000. "The Republicans say we cannot afford increased port and border security. They say we cannot afford money for police, fire, or public education, but they can justify more tax cuts for the wealthiest among us."
06.15.2006	May 10, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today announced that he secured grant consideration for the City of Coburg, which will provide the city special access to federal Rural Development funds in the next fiscal year to address wastewater needs in their community. The provision was included in the "Fiscal Year 2007, Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations Act," which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee last night. "Water infrastructure and water quality are important to fortifying the long-term economic viability of our communities," DeFazio said. "Rural Development funds will help Coburg to build the necessary infrastructure that helps attract new businesses, create jobs and improve the economy." The City of Coburg would use the funds to build a wastewater system to protect and improve the region's groundwater. With more than 1,000 residents, the City of Coburg is one of the few cities of its size in Oregon that still lacks a citywide wastewater system. In the late 1980s, several of the nation's leading recreational vehicle manufacturers settled in Coburg's enterprise zone and installed individual septic systems as a temporary solution. The city's ability to maintain current business and attract new companies is contingent upon the availability of a public wastewater system. Without federal assistance, the community would have to dramatically increase fees for residents and industrial users, which would discourage business growth.
06.15.2006	May 04, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—With gas prices quickly rising across the country, Congress acted yesterday to protect consumers from price gouging. The House passed H.R. 5253, which would ban price gouging by oil companies. Congressman DeFazio supported this bill, which will outlaw price gouging at the pump, create strong penalties for price gouging, and permit states to bring lawsuits against wholesalers or retailers for price gouging. Currently, gouging is only illegal if there is collusion between two or more entities, which is difficult to prove. "I have been fighting against the outrageous profits of oil companies made at the expense of the American people for years," DeFazio said. "I support a variety of measures to lower gas prices, like imposing a windfall profits tax on oil producers and refiners, and breaking up the OPEC cartel. However, this anti-gouging legislation-which is very similar to a bill I cosponsored last year-is a good first step toward ensuring that consumers are being treated fairly. "We should be doing much more. Unregulated energy speculators are negatively affecting oil and gas prices. We should require these off-market speculators to report their trades and be held accountable if it is determined they illegally manipulated energy markets. Imposing a windfall profits tax on oil producers and refiners would ensure that oil companies do not profit on the backs of American consumers. "We also need long-term solutions, like mandating a reduction in U.S. oil consumption within 10 years, expanding federal research into alternative fuels, and providing incentives for American automakers to more quickly develop more efficient and alternative fuel vehicles." The House also passed H.R. 5254, which supporters billed as creating more refinery capacity. But in reality, the bill would do nothing to increase refinery capacity or lower gas prices. Congressman DeFazio voted against this giveaway to the oil industry. "Republicans in Congress are pushing this bill hoping Americans don't look too closely at it," DeFazio said. "If they do, they'll discover that it does nothing to lower gas prices. In reality, oil company memos prove it was the companies themselves that shut down 50 refineries over the last 15 years with a plan to squeeze supply and drive up prices. It's highly unlikely that legislation that would require more federal bureaucracy in this arena will lead to faster permitting and lower gas prices."
06.15.2006	April 28, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio earned a 92 percent rating from the Peace Action Education Fund (PAEF) on his congressional voting record from the 2005 session of the 109th Congress. The median score for all members of Congress was 33 percent. PAEF, a sister organization to Peace Action, based the lawmakers' grades on their votes on issues such as the war in Iraq, torture, the policy of pre-emptive military attack, military recruitment practices, nuclear weapons policy, weapons in space, and funding for the United Nations. "My goal since my first day in Congress has been to transition federal budget priorities from lavish weapons spending and military interventions to increased investment in education, Social Security, health care, and other pressing needs," Congressman DeFazio said. "With an open-ended commitment in Iraq and the possibility of military action in Iran, it is more important than ever for members of Congress to stand up for peace and justice. I am proud to have received a high rating from Peace Action Education Fund in recognition of my efforts."
06.15.2006	Introduces Own Legislation Directing Bush To Seek Authorization Before Strikes On Iran April 26, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Concerned about the mounting indications that President Bush is planning military action against Iran, Congressman DeFazio has introduced a resolution calling on the president to seek authorization from Congress prior to taking any such action. The resolution, H. Con. Res. 391, is supported by 26 other members of Congress. There was also a vote in the House on Iran-related legislation today. The House considered legislation to extend economic sanctions against Iran on countries and companies investing in Iran. DeFazio voted in favor of these sanctions when they were originally proposed in 1996 and again when they were renewed in 2001. However, he voted against the sanctions bill today because, unlike the earlier versions, the new bill added provisions calling for U.S.-sponsored regime change in Iran. While DeFazio supports targeted sanctions, he is opposed to establishing a U.S. policy of regime change by legislating American support of Iranian exile groups and groups within Iran seeking regime change. "I voted against H.R. 282, the Iran sanctions bill, because I am concerned that it is the first step in taking our country down the same misguided path that was taken with Iraq," Congressman DeFazio said. "I have voted in support of sanctions on Iran and those doing business with the country, and I continue to believe targeted sanctions are effective. However, I cannot support any bill that would establish a U.S. policy in favor of regime change in Iran. "The Iranian exile groups that would likely benefit from the provisions in this bill eerily echo Ahmad Chalabi's Iraqi National Congress. Chalabi's INC worked with the Bush administration to mislead Congress and the American people about Iraq's supposed weapons of mass destruction in order to gain support for toppling Saddam Hussein using U.S. forces." DeFazio also introduced a resolution today, H. Con. Res. 391, directing the president to seek authorization from Congress prior to any military action. "The last thing we need is another Iraq," Congressman DeFazio said. "My resolution reminds the president to follow federal law and Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution, which requires authorization from Congress before taking military action against Iran. Members of the House of Representatives have been elected by their constituents to participate in major decisions like initiating military strikes against other countries, and it is an injustice to the American people to deny them that prerogative."
06.15.2006	April 26, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representatives Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley and David Wu introduced a bill today to provide emergency disaster assistance to salmon fishers devastated by unprecedented fishing closures along the West Coast. The bill would provide $81 million in direct economic disaster relief to help fishers and others whose livelihoods have been impacted by the closures. It would also provide $45 million for restoration and mitigation in the Klamath River system to help alleviate some of the underlying problems plaguing the river. "It's clear that such a vast restriction of the salmon season will have devastating impacts on fishers, their families, and coastal communities," Congressman DeFazio said. "The Bush administration needs to help us pass this relief package by declaring the fishery a disaster and supporting the legislation. Short-term assistance is critical so that folks can make boat payments, insurance payments, pay mortgages and keep food on the table. But we also need to find long-term solutions to improve the health of the Klamath and maintain the fishing way of life." "The situation we face today illustrates this administration's hostility to science and our way of life in Oregon," Congressman Wu said. "No approach, other than a policy based on better up-river water management and habitat restoration, will ever restore the Klamath fall Chinook run. But we can't just sit and wait for a day that may never come. It is imperative we get assistance to our fishing communities. Each day boats are docked and not out on the water, fishermen, their families, entire communities and Oregon's economy suffer." "The partial closure of the commercial fishing season has created a true emergency for our coastal communities," Congresswoman Hooley said. "Just as a drought affects farmers and the economy, these restrictions threaten the life of this industry and the health of the coastal economy. This legislation is critical to providing needed aid to fishermen in a relatively timely manner and in starting to address problems in the Klamath."
06.15.2006	April 25, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio is proud to announce that a partnership of four universities, Portland State University, the University of Oregon, Oregon State University, and the Oregon Institute of Technology, will receive a $1.56 million grant today to support transportation research and technology innovation. The grant comes as a result of Congressman DeFazio's work on last year's transportation reauthorization bill, SAFETEA-LU, to designate the four Oregon universities as a National University Transportation Center (UTC). "I fought to designate these universities as a National UTC because I know how important their work is here in Oregon and across the country," DeFazio said. "This funding will help address difficult transportation issues with innovative solutions. With Oregon's mounting transportation problems, like record-high truck traffic on I-5 and a $4.7 billion bridge problem on the interstate system, the grant will be particularly beneficial locally." This grant, provided by the U.S. Department of Transportation's Research and Innovative Technology Administration, represents the first installment of the five-year National UTC designation. Nine other American universities were designated as National UTCs as part of SAFETEA-LU, which authorizes them to receive up to $16 million each over five years. The funds must be matched on a dollar-for-dollar basis with non-federal funds. "By training our next generation of transportation innovators and performing vital research, our university centers are critical partners in keeping Oregon and the entire nation moving safely and efficiently," said U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta. The UTC program was created in 1988 to meet the nation's need for the safe, efficient and environmentally sound movement of people and goods through research, education and technology transfer. Participating universities are involved in a variety of advanced and applied research ranging from intelligent transportation systems and fuel-efficient vehicle deployment to innovations that will improve passenger safety and reduce traffic and freight congestion. National UTCs are expected to provide national leadership in advancing research and technology solutions to America's transportation challenges.
06.15.2006	April 14, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Concerned about the threat of an influenza pandemic, U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio and other Democrats on the House Committee on Homeland Security sent a letter to President Bush today urging him to develop a comprehensive, operational plan in case of a pandemic. In February, Congressman DeFazio participated in an exercise at the National Defense University that simulated the outbreak of pandemic influenza in the United States. The exercise highlighted the devastation and chaos such a pandemic could cause if the United States is not properly prepared. "Experts agree that an influenza pandemic is inevitable. The question is, how bad it will be and what form it will take—H5N1, SARS or another strain altogether," DeFazio said. "Just like protecting against the nuclear threat from the Soviet Union, we need to be prepared for this crisis. We need state-of-the-art vaccine and antiviral production capacity to produce and stockpile antiviral medication, and we can't wait on the pharmaceutical industry to do it when it is in their interest. We can take concrete steps to be prepared, and to date, very little is being done." The text of today's letter is included below: The Honorable George W. Bush President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush: The Democratic Members of the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives are deeply concerned about the lack of strategic leadership in addressing the numerous biological threats to our nation. As avian influenza spreads across Europe and around the world, we are particularly concerned about the developing threat of an influenza pandemic. We had hoped that our concerns would be somewhat mitigated by the briefing Homeland Security Committee members received on April 6 from Dr. Venkayya, your Special Assistant for Biodefense, regarding the implementation plan for the National Strategy on Pandemic Influenza. We expected this briefing to present some clear and detailed operational plans for federal, state, and local officials to follow in the event of a pandemic. Instead, the presentation contained the same vague language that the National Strategy outlined last December. A strategy with no operational details will not protect the American public. This implementation plan was originally to be completed in February. At the briefing Dr. Venkayya said that the implementation plan would be publicly released by the end of April. If what was presented at the April 6th briefing is the final draft, however, there is little point to issuing it, as it contains barely more detail than did the National Strategy. We are deeply concerned by the lack of urgency on the part of your administration in the face of an impending catastrophe of such magnitude. The National Strategy outlined the need for $7.1 billion to prepare for an avian flu epidemic. Of this amount, 85% is focused solely on vaccine and antiviral countermeasures that we do not currently have the capacity to produce. This same proposal requests only $251 million to "detect and contain outbreaks" of a potential deadly flu. It contains only $644 million "to ensure that all levels of government are prepared to respond to a pandemic outbreak." Even if cell-based vaccine production technology were available today, the time required to progress from virus isolation to vaccine production would be approximately 6 months. Based on this plan, no vaccine would be available for months, and hundreds of thousands of Americans could potentially contract the virus and die. We cannot rely on vaccines as the centerpiece of our pandemic strategy. It will take time to develop new vaccines and prepare them for distribution. A more balanced approach is needed. As the virus spreads across the world, it is imperative that every town in America prepare now for an outbreak and know precisely what steps to take. State and local preparedness must be fully supported. Yet, you asked Congress for only $100 million for States to "complete and exercise their pandemic plans before a pandemic strike." This is far too little funding for this vital task, and it was left to Congress to increase this amount to $350 million in the Department of Defense, Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act of 2006, H.R. 2863. In the first few months of a flu outbreak, and possibly beyond, non-medical countermeasures - limited social contact, more frequent hand washing, use of masks, automatic doors, and as a last resort, quarantines - will be our only defense against the proliferation of the disease. Plans for the use of these methods must be in place and ready to be initiated at a moment's notice. Public education is key for these efforts to be successful, but to date we have not seen any plans for a public education campaign from your Administration. True preparedness will also include funding our nation's hospitals to handle the expected surge in demand that they will face. Many of our hospitals are already operating at or near 100% of their capacity. They will not be able to absorb the large influx of patients that will occur during a major influenza outbreak unless they begin planning now for additional capacity. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) have begun holding state level meetings to discuss localized strategies and plans for response. As of the date of this letter, 40 of these State meetings have taken place, and the two Departments involved expect that all 50 States will ultimately participate. These meetings are definitely a step in the right direction, but they must be further developed and include follow-up status meetings to be comprehensive. Further, many of these meetings have excluded critical partners such as the National Guard and private sector interests. These important partners must be included. Finally, while State and local officials can best judge their own capacity for preparedness and response, a pandemic will demand a nationally-coordinated strategy. The Federal Government must provide a detailed, operational plan that can immediately be adopted by Federal, State, and local decision-makers in the event of a pandemic outbreak. We also have a number of concerns about the ability of the Department of Homeland Security to fulfill their role in preparing for an influenza epidemic. The Department, through the FY06 emergency supplemental appropriation process, received $47.3 million to prepare for this national crisis. Your FY 2007 budget does not request any additional funding for pandemic influenza preparedness, and yet we know a crisis is coming. Why has your administration not requested resources in your budget to address this urgent issue, and instead opted to rely on emergency supplemental appropriations? Another problem in the Department that concerns us deeply is the lack of resources granted to the Department of Homeland Security's newly created Office of the Chief Medical Officer, who has also been designated to head the pandemic influenza preparedness process for the Department. Dr. Runge is highly respected, but his office does not have even the minimal resources necessary to do the job. The Chief Medical Officer's budget has been increased only slightly, to $5 million for all operations, from the FY 2006 level of $3 million. The office received only five additional full time employees, for a total of 15 personnel. A true pandemic influenza outbreak will strain every sector of our society, and the Office of the Chief Medical Officer will not be able to help prepare effectively unless sufficient staff and significant resources are in place to manage a task of this magnitude. Mr. President, many of the threats we confront in Homeland Security occur without advance warning. When we do have notice, it is our duty to use that time wisely to protect, prepare, and defend our nation. Recently, the Administration failed to translate advance notice of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita into a preparedness and response plan that could have saved thousands of lives from the wrath of these storms. In the case of avian flu, we have already had one year to prepare, but we do not yet have a comprehensive, operational plan to protect our nation. Secretary Chertoff has said that he believes the H5N1 avian influenza virus will be on American soil within months. And a mutation in the virus that will allow human-to-human transmission could happen at any time. In the time remaining, we must ensure that a coherent, nationwide response to an influenza pandemic is ready. The situation is critical and further delays will put the American public at continued risk. We urge you to make it a top priority to develop a true, detailed operational plan and ensure its implementation. Sincerely, /s/ Rep. Peter DeFazio Rep. Bennie G. Thompson Rep. Bill Pascrell Rep. James Langevin Rep. Loretta Sanchez Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Kendrick B. Meek Rep. Edward Markey Rep. Jane Harman Rep. Nita Lowey Rep. Norm Dicks Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee Rep. Donna Christensen Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton
06.15.2006	April 13, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio will send a letter to President Bush reminding him that he is constitutionally bound to seek congressional approval before making any preemptive military strikes against Iran. DeFazio is circulating the letter to other members of Congress seeking additional support. Recent news reports, including a report by Seymour Hersh, who won a Pulitzer Prize for uncovering the My Lai massacre, have indicated that the administration is planning a military action against them. DeFazio will also introduce a resolution expressing the sense of the Congress that the President cannot initiate military action against Iran without congressional authorization. Click here to view the resolution. He is seeking additional support among other House members for the resolution as well. The text of the letter is included below: The Honorable George W. Bush President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush: We are concerned by the growing number of stories that your Administration is planning for military action against Iran. We are writing to remind you that you are constitutionally bound to seek congressional authorization before launching any preventive military strikes against Iran. As you know, Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution grants Congress the power "to declare war," to lay and collect taxes to "provide for the common defense" and general welfare of the United States, to "raise and support armies," to "provide and maintain a navy," to "make rules for the regulation for the land and naval forces," to "provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions," to "provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the militia," and to "make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution...all...powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States." Congress is also given exclusive power over the purse. The Constitution says, "No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law." By contrast, the sole war powers granted to the Executive Branch through the President can be found in Article II, Section 2, which states, "The President shall be the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into actual Service of the United States..." Your Administration has argued that this "Commander-in-Chief" clause grants the President wide latitude to engage U.S. military forces abroad without prior authorization from Congress. You further argue that previous unilateral actions by presidents of both political parties add credence to your interpretation of the U.S. Constitution. Contrary to your Administration's broad reading, nothing in the history of the "Commander-in-Chief" clause suggests that the authors of the provision intended it to grant the Executive Branch the authority to engage U.S. forces in military action whenever and wherever it sees fit without any prior authorization from Congress. The founders of our country intended this power to allow the President to repel sudden attacks and immediate threats, not to unilaterally launch, without congressional approval, large-scale preventive military actions against foreign threats that are likely years away from materializing. With respect to Iran, according to the most definitive U.S. intelligence report, Iran is likely a decade away from developing a nuclear weapon. Even the most pessimistic analysis by outside experts puts the timeline at least three years away, but that's only if everything in Iran's development program proceeds flawlessly, which would defy the history of nuclear programs around the world, including Iran's. The architects of the U.S. Constitution were well aware of government models, like the monarchy in Great Britain, which vested the power to go to war with the head of state. Instead, the Founding Fathers made a conscious decision to grant the solemn war-making powers to the Legislative Branch. The intent of the authors of the U.S. Constitution is clear. In the Federalist Paper Number 69, while comparing the lesser war-making power of the U.S. president versus the King of Great Britain, Alexander Hamilton wrote, "...the President is to be commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy of the United States. In this respect his authority would be nominally the same with that of the King of Great Britain, but in substance much inferior to it. It would amount to nothing more than the supreme command and direction of the military and naval forces, as first General and admiral of the Confederacy; while that of the British king extends to the declaring of war and to raising and regulating of fleets and armies, all which, by the Constitution under consideration, would appertain to the legislature." James Madison declared that it is necessary to adhere to the "fundamental doctrine of the Constitution that the power to declare war is fully and exclusively vested in the legislature." In 1793, President George Washington, when considering how to protect inhabitants of the American frontier, instructed his Administration that "no offensive expedition of importance can be undertaken until after [Congress] have deliberated upon the subject, and authorized such a measure." In 1801, Thomas Jefferson sent a small squadron of frigates to the Mediterranean to protect against possible attacks by the Barbary powers. He told Congress that he was "unauthorized by the Constitution, without the sanction of Congress, to go beyond the line of defense." He further noted that it was up to Congress to authorize "measures of offense also." While presidents in the latter half of the 20th Century have initiated military action without prior authorization by Congress, "everybody does it" is not a legitimate defense to ignore the plain words of the U.S. Constitution, the clear intent of the authors of the U.S. Constitution, and more than 150 years of legal precedent. We also want to go on record that the Authorization of Force Resolution (Public Law 107-40) approved by Congress to go after those responsible for the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on our country does not, explicitly or implicitly, extend to authorizing military action against Iran over its nuclear program. The legislation specifically says, "The President is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations, or persons." There is no evidence that Iran was involved in the September 11, 2001, attacks. Nor is there any evidence that Iran harbored those who were responsible for the attacks. Further, the Authorization of Force Resolution (Public Law 107-243) approved by Congress to go to war with Iraq does not extend to military action against Iran over its nuclear program. This resolution only authorized you to "(1) defend the national security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by Iraq; and (2) enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq." Like P.L. 107-40, there is no explicit or implicit authorization on the part of Congress in P.L. 107-243 that would allow you to attack Iran without first coming to Congress to seek a new authorization. When asked about reports of your administration planning for war with Iran, you said on April 10, 2006, "It [prevention] doesn't mean force, necessarily. In this case, it means diplomacy." We agree with the focus on diplomacy. But, we want to be clear, should you decide that force is necessary, seeking congressional authority prior to taking military action against Iran is not discretionary. It is legally and constitutionally necessary. Sincerely, /s/ PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress
06.15.2006	April 7, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—On the heels of a decision limiting this year's salmon season and crippling local economies along the California and Oregon coast, the Bush administration has decided to challenge a court decision that would have aided in the protection of salmon and the redevelopment of their habitat on the Klamath River. Members of Congress have learned that on Monday, April 10, the Justice Department plans on asking U.S. District Court Judge Saundra Armstrong to reconsider her ruling that stated that the Bureau of Reclamation must limit the amount of water that is diverted from the Klamath and its struggling salmon. "This decision is nothing short of a slap in the face to fishing families and coastal communities in California and Oregon," Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA-1) said. "We are reeling from yesterday's decision to severely limit the season and today the Bush administration has shown complete disregard for the health of the Klamath and the livelihoods of thousands of people who live along our coast. We can't just turn our cheeks to the administration's incompetence and gross mismanagement." "This inexplicable decision is, sadly, in keeping with the Bush administration's mismanagement of fisheries and water projects up and down the coast. In the San Francisco Bay-Delta, where some of the fish are on the brink of extinction, the administration is signing long-term water contracts that guarantee that destructive water diversions will continue. And now on the Klamath, after repeatedly failing to help our fishing families and communities financially, the administration has decided to fight to keep water out of the river. It adds insult to injury, and all of us on the West Coast will end up the poorer for it," Rep. George Miller (D-CA-7) said. "Just the day after the Pacific Fishery Management Council recommended unprecedented restrictions amounting to a near closure of the salmon season, the administration is opposing the very remedy that could improve fish survival--increased water flows in the Klamath River," Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR-4) said. "It seems the administration is not interested in addressing the factors that are ultimately responsible for this salmon disaster." "This appeal by the administration is a ridiculous attempt to avoid admitting that they've failed at managing the Klamath River! Our salmon fishermen are being treated as scapegoats and enduring cuts to their season when the real problem lies with imbalanced Klamath water policies—and now the Administration is continuing to delay progress toward improvement," Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA-17). "This administration has proven time and time again that science is given a back seat to politics, and today is no different," stated Congressman David Wu (D-OR-1). "Even though federal scientists agree that water management and environmental degradation are the two primary causes of salmon loss, the administration has decided to continue to stand in the way of real solutions for salmon recovery."
06.15.2006	April 7, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio announced today that the Lane Council of Governments (LCOG) received a $500,000 low-interest loan to support small businesses in rural Lane County from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The loan will supplement an existing revolving loan fund, which has helped rural small businesses create or retain almost 300 jobs since the inception of the program in 1997. "I know how successful these loans have been in Lane County to spur development in rural areas," DeFazio said. "This additional funding will allow the LCOG continue this important work." DeFazio's office served as a point of contact for the LCOG during the application process, submitting a joint letter to the Oregon USDA supporting the loan application along with Senator Ron Wyden and Senator Gordon Smith. Based on past performance, the new loan will generate about eight new loans to small businesses and will lead to the creation or retention of at least 30 rural jobs, according to the LCOG. The loan program re-lends funds at market rates in rural Lane County to support businesses or community development. "This is a great tool to help stimulate economic development and create jobs in rural Lane County," said Stephen J. Dignam, LCOG Program Manager. Loans have been made to businesses ranging from auto body shops to plant nurseries, according to Dignam. Eligible businesses can borrow up to $150,000, with the average loan being $85,843. "This investment further supports USDA's goal to create jobs and improve economic opportunities in rural communities," said Mark Simmons, USDA Rural Development State Director in Oregon. The loan is through the Intermediary Relending Program (IRP) of USDA Agriculture Development. The new loan will be LCOG's sixth round of IRP funding and will increase LCOG's total IRP program to almost $4.4 million.
06.15.2006	April 4, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and 13 other west coast members today asked the Department of Commerce to immediately declare this year's West Coast salmon fishery a disaster if a closure of the fishery is approved by the Pacific Fishery Management Council. DeFazio was joined by members who represent the 700 miles of coastal Oregon and California affected by the potential season closure. Immediate declaration of a fishery disaster will speed the delivery of a relief package to those affected. The PFMC is expected to make a decision by April 7, 2006. The text of the letter is attached below: Dr. William T. Hogarth Director, NOAA Fisheries U.S. Department of Commerce Room SSMC 3 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW Washington DC 20230 Dear Dr. Hogarth: Thank you for granting our request to provide us with a congressional briefing on the impending salmon disaster. As you know, the Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) may soon approve a complete federal closure of the salmon fishery between Cape Falcon in Northern Oregon and Point Sur in Central California. A closure of this nature, covering 700 miles of coastline, would be unprecedented and will levy a devastating economic toll on our fishing communities. We cannot wait for the Department of Commerce to complete a comprehensive economic analysis of the closure. We ask that upon a Council announcement of a closure that you immediately declare a fishery disaster. Due to the realities of the congressional schedule we will have to move a relief package as quickly as possible. Our task will be made significantly more difficult without a disaster declaration and direct economic impact estimate from your agency. We ask that you make your determination in two parts. First, you should immediately declare the salmon fishery a disaster and provide us with an initial estimate of the direct compensation costs to fishers and deckhands. In addition we ask that you provide us with a list of immediate in-stream mitigation measures that may be adopted. This will allow us to begin moving a minimum relief and mitigation package through Congress. You should then begin analysis of community economic impacts associated with peripheral industries such as retail and lodging. These peripheral industries are vital to the economic and social health of our coastal communities and should not be ignored. However, we recognize that quantifying these impacts will require more time and analysis by your agency. As part of this second analysis, we ask that you include recommendations for significant long-term changes in the management of the Klamath River system-including the Shasta, Trinity, Scott, and Salmon rivers-so we may begin to address the underlying causes of this fishery disaster. We ask that this second analysis be completed expeditiously, but do not want the time needed to complete this work to delay a disaster declaration. Please be prepared, upon a decision by the Council, to immediately declare a disaster and provide us with an estimate of direct economic costs. We appreciate your consideration of this request. Do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions about this request. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Mike Thompson Nancy Pelosi George Miller Earl Blumenauer Lois Capps David Wu Tom Lantos Darlene Hooley Doris Matsui Maxine Waters Sam Farr Mike Honda Anna Eshoo
06.15.2006	March 29, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today offered an amendment that would expedite salvage logging and better prepare for forest fires and other unexpected catastrophic events. The amendment was offered to the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200, during consideration of the bill by the House Committee on Resources. DeFazio predicted that in order for the bill to become law, changes will need to be made to the final version of the bill. DeFazio's amendment helps ensure that our salvage policy is largely free of political meddling, and is based on peer-reviewed science and long term management goals, both of which are supported by expert testimony offered to the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health by OSU College of Forestry Dean Dr. Hal Salwasser. "My main fear with this legislation, in its current form, is that it gives extraordinarily broad discretion to the Secretary," DeFazio said. "I appreciate that some may want this administration's political appointees to have this broad authority, but when Congress grants such broad discretion, they grant it to all administrations, including future administrations who may or may not use these extraordinary discretionary powers wisely." "Congress has a duty to set policy, not pass the buck to political appointees. My alternative would greatly expedite procedures for post-catastrophic fire salvage, but require us to be prescriptive and apply different rules to different categories of forest. My proposal would de-politicize the issue, rely on peer-reviewed science, and still protect rights of appeal. As a policy-making body, Congress should set some parameters and provide some direction for the Forest Service and other land managers, not give a blank check to political appointees," DeFazio said. DeFazio has participated in a number of hearings on salvage logging and post-fire recovery practices, including a recent field hearing in Medford, Oregon. The committee has heard testimony from a wide range of experts and activists on the issue, including several well-respected forest scientists such as Dr. Jerry Franklin, Dr. Dave Perry and Dr. Salwasser. After listening to the scientists, DeFazio determined that several key changes to H.R. 4200 were necessary. DeFazio's amendment could provide a workable framework for a bill with a chance to become law. His amendment attempts to strike a balance between what is appropriate management when timber production is the goal, and the more careful consideration that should take place when managing for wildlife, recreation, or other values. The DeFazio amendment would also provide for greater participation by the public, more certainty by pre-planning for events, and snag and downed tree standards that scientists say are essential.
06.15.2006	March 14, 2006Press Release | Contact: Penny Dodge (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today joined Rep. Dan Lungren (R-CA) and Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA) at a press conference announcing the introduction of the SAFE Port Act, comprehensive legislation that will improve the security of our nation's ports. DeFazio serves on the Economic Security, Infrastructure Protection and Cybersecurity Subcommittee which is scheduled to hold a hearing on the bill on Thursday. Even before the prospect of the Dubai Ports acquisition brought the issue of port security to the forefront, dangerous vulnerabilities existed in our global supply chain, reaching far beyond the shores of our Nation's seaports. The maritime transport system is vulnerable to attack and exploitation by terrorists. United States shores should be our last line of defense. "I think most Americans would be shocked to learn that almost 5 years after 9/11, we're still protecting our ports with an honor system, instead of security, certainty and good intelligence. Each shipper is asked to send us an invoice which discloses what they're shipping and only a tiny percentage of containers are well secured and actually inspected. It's not very likely that a terrorist would voluntarily disclose that they are shipping 199 concrete bird-feeders and a nuclear bomb," DeFazio said. We know that Al'Qaeda has targeted our ports for attack in order to inflict massive economic losses on the US and its allies. We can and must do better. "I'm proud to have worked with Chairman Lungren on the SAFE Ports Act. This legislation will create a chain of custody for goods and containers coming to the United States that will be much more likely to prevent terrorists from shipping either themselves or weapons to our shores," DeFazio said. The following are the main provisions of the SAFE Ports Act: -Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop a strategy for cargo and maritime security including a timeline, and a plan for the resumption of trade in the event of an attack. -Establish a Director of Cargo Security Policy at DHS to coordinate supply chain programs throughout the department. -Establish minimum security standards for all cargo containers entering the U.S. -Create a dedicated stream of funding for port security grants. -Authorize the Container Security Initiative (CSI) and the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT). -Establish joint operations centers in the U.S. to ensure a coordinated approach and response in the event of a threat or attack. -Focus on research and development efforts to improve maritime and cargo security. -Check the names of all employees in secure port areas against terrorist watch lists. -Create third tier of the C-TPAT program called GreenLane, comprised of participants who exceed minimum standards.
06.15.2006	March 9, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted for passage of legislation which will help combat methamphetamine trafficking. The meth provisions were included in H.R. 2829, the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization, and passed by a vote of 399-5. Methamphetamine abuse is a widespread problem in Oregon. Oregon treats more people for meth addiction per capita than any other state in the country and is consistently ranked in the top 10 states nationally for meth lab seizures. DeFazio first became aware of the problem as a Lane County Commissioner, and as an active member of the Congressional Meth Caucus, he has supported numerous efforts to combat meth throughout his time in congress. Early in his congressional career, DeFazio introduced legislation to require the registration of the sales of all chemicals used to produce methamphetamine which was enacted as part of H.R. 5210, the Omnibus Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988. The bill Congress passed today, H.R. 2829, the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization, earmarks $15 million annually to combat methamphetamine trafficking in high-intensity drug trafficking areas. These funds will go to increase interagency cooperation of law enforcement groups in these areas. The measure requires that local agencies receiving these federal funds report on any methamphetamine lab seizures to the national clandestine laboratory database at the El Paso Intelligence Center. DeFazio supported an amendment to require a national strategy to address the increased threat of methamphetamine, reduce demand, improve treatment and prevent the international diversion of precursor chemicals. "Methamphetamines have devastated the lives of too many Oregonians and their families. Communities throughout Oregon and the U.S. will face untold costs in responding to the human, environmental and health consequences of this scourge for years to come. The country needs a better strategy and adequate resources to fight this growing epidemic," DeFazio said. DeFazio is a cosponsor of H.R. 3889, the Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act to cut off the availability of pseudoephedrine, a chemical presursor found in over-the-counter cold medicines and used to produce methamphetamine. The provisions of H.R. 3889 were signed into law today by President Bush as part of legislation to reauthorize the USA PATRIOT Act.
06.15.2006	March 3, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. DeFazio (D-Springfield) and nine other members of the House Aviation Subcommittee today expressed concerns about recent decisions by the administration to encourage and allow foreign ownership of U.S. infrastructure and industries that are critical to our national security. In a letter to the President Bush, Rep. Peter DeFazio and nine other members of the House Aviation Subcommittee urged the administration to reconsider allowing Dubai Ports World to take over operations at six U.S. ports, and to drop a proposed rule change which would allow U.S. airlines to be controlled by foreign investors. Foreign government ownership of port operations and U.S. airlines poses a security risk for the country. "I'm pleased there's been so much attention on the ports issue recently, but people need to be aware that the administration is attempting to allow foreign governments and interests to control other important U.S. industries like the airlines as well. These policies put commercial interests and corporate profits above national security," DeFazio said. The letter was signed by Reps. DeFazio,Costello, Holden, Brown, Johnson, Pascrell, Capuano, Carnahan, Berkely and Norton. The text of the letter follows. The Honorable George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express concern about recent decisions your administration has made to encourage and allow foreign ownership of U.S. infrastructure and industries that are critical to our national security. We've had ongoing concerns about the lack of investment in port security, the Coast Guard, and Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Although CBP analyzes cargo manifests prior to their arrival in the U.S., only a small fraction of the more than nine million marine containers that enter U.S. ports each year are physically inspected. This is particularly problematic in light of your administration's decision to allow the state-controlled Dubai Ports World from the UAE to control operations at six American ports. Our national security depends on protecting our nation's ports and ensuring the cargo traveling through them is secure. Foreign government ownership of port operations poses a security risk. It also helps perpetuate the deindustrialization of America and the selling off of U.S. assets to foreign investors. That poses an economic and a national security risk. Unfortunately, port operations are not the only thing your administration is trying to turn over to foreign ownership. Contrary to congressional intent, your administration is trying to give foreigners a controlling interest in U.S. airlines. The Department of Transportation's (DOT) November 7, 2005, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) will change longstanding policies prohibiting foreign interests from exercising "actual control" over U.S. airlines. The proposed change would result in U.S. citizens only having to have "actual control" over safety and security decisions. Economic decisions, day to day operations, market strategy and purchase of aircraft could be controlled by foreign officials. It is impossible, however, to isolate safety and security from the financial, commercial and management decisions that foreign investors would be allowed to control. This proposal by DOT poses similar security questions as the port ownership actions. We strongly urge your administration to reconsider allowing Dubai Ports World to take over operations at six U.S. ports. We also urge you, in the strongest possible terms, to drop DOT's proposed NPRM that would allow U.S. airlines to be controlled by foreign investors. Your administration needs to re-evaluate your actions in terms of allowing U.S. assets and security to be sold off to the highest foreign bidder. If you fail to do so, then we will do what we can to legislatively reverse these shortsighted proposals and protect U.S. economic and national security interests. Sincerely, /s/ Members of Congress
06.15.2006	February 22, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Co-Chair of the Northwest Energy Caucus in the House of Representatives, coordinated a letter from the bipartisan Caucus that was sent today to the Department of Energy and the Office of Management and Budget to protest recent proposals in the President's Fiscal Year 2007 Budget that would lead to rate increases for Northwest consumers. The letter was signed by 15 members from the Northwest, both Republicans and Democrats, including Caucus Co-Chairs Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA). The text of the letter follows: The Honorable Samuel W. Bodman U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585 Mr. Joshua B. Bolten Director Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Secretary Bodman and Director Bolten: We are writing to express the strong and unified opposition of the Northwest congressional delegation to the Fiscal Year 2007 budget proposal to increase electric rates in our region by nearly $1 billion. We also continue to be opposed to the third party financing debt reclassification that was repeated from last year's budget and sent to Congress in legislative form in June of last year. And, more generally, we want to express our extreme displeasure that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) once again inserted provisions into the budget of the Bonneville Power Administration that are harmful to our region without so much as a single word of consultation or discussion with the Members of Congress who represent the impacted areas. Regarding OMB's proposal to apply a portion of Bonneville's secondary sales revenue towards accelerated federal debt repayment, this proposal represents the worst of all worlds: it guarantees a rate increase, but, contrary to the stated rationale by OMB, the infrastructure investment benefits are purely speculative and not likely to materialize. As we understand the OMB proposal, Bonneville would be prohibited from assuming any surplus sales revenue beyond $500 million a year when the Agency analyzes the probability of making its annual Treasury payment on time and in full (as the Agency has done for more than 20 years running) and sets its rates accordingly. What this means is that Bonneville will be forced to raise its baseline rates in order to meet its Treasury Payment Probability goal. This rate increase will be required regardless of whether there are any secondary sales revenues over $500 million. Further, there is reason to believe that OMB vastly over-estimates the level of secondary sales revenue that would be available to repay debt and to provide resources for infrastructure investment. This, again, raises the question of whether OMB is imposing a guaranteed rate increase while manipulating the secondary sales revenues to make the resulting infrastructure investments appear more likely to occur than they actually are. OMB assumes secondary sales revenue of $668 million in FY2007, $588 million in FY2008, $583 million in FY2009, and $580 million in FY2010 and FY2011. By contrast, in its FY2007-2009 rate case, Bonneville assumes secondary sales revenues of $530 million in FY2007, $410 million in FY2008, and $390 million in FY2009. In other words, under Bonneville's assumptions, the OMB-imposed rate increase would yield only $30 million in accelerated debt repayment and possible additional infrastructure investment resources through FY2009. According to a February 8, 2006, analysis by the Northwest Power and Conservation Council, the OMB proposal will result in a retail rate increase of at least 6.6 percent, raising power rates by $145 million a year, costing retail consumers an additional $26.13 a year (energy intensive industries will suffer even more), decreasing personal income in the Northwest by $109 million, and resulting in the loss of 1,120 jobs. Other analysts project a wholesale rate increase of ten percent or more. This economic blow to our region would be totally unwarranted. The reality is that Bonneville and the region's ratepayers have made Treasury payments on time and in full for more than 20 years. In addition, Bonneville has voluntarily made more than $1.46 billion in early payments on its federal debt over the last couple of years. Contrary to OMB's current proposal, this was done without raising rates. Although the FY2007 budget does not explicitly raise the issue of Northwest ratepayers supposedly being "subsidized" by federal taxpayers, earlier Bush administration budgets have raised the issue, and we understand OMB is making this argument in private discussions as a justification for the rate increase it is trying to impose. The subsidy argument is flat out wrong, and we would urge you to stop making it. The claims that Bonneville is subsidized rest on the difference between the average interest rate on Bonneville's appropriated Treasury debt and the long-term market interest rates that prevailed during the late 1980s and into the 1990s (According to GAO, in 1996 Bonneville's appropriated Treasury debt was being repaid at an average interest rate of 3.5%; prevailing Treasury rates were around 9%). The region disagreed that the difference in interest rates that prevailed at the time represented a subsidy. But in order to put the perennial subsidy argument to rest, the Northwest congressional delegation negotiated a refinancing arrangement for Bonneville's debt with OMB, Bonneville and the Treasury Department. That agreement was first introduced into Congress in 1994 by Senator Mark Hatfield and Representative Peter DeFazio and finally enacted into law in 1996. What happened was that the net present value of the stream of payments that Bonneville owed was calculated at that time. The interest rate was arbitrarily increased to a market rate (about 7.1%, which means Northwest ratepayers are paying an above-market interest rate today). The principal amount at the end of 1996 was reduced from $6.7 billion to $4.1 billion, but the effect of increasing the interest rate and reducing the principal amount was that the net present value of the stream of payments the Treasury would receive remained exactly the same. In other words, the taxpayer was no better or worse off as a result of the transaction with one important exception: Bonneville (and the region's ratepayers) agreed to pay an additional $100 million early in the new repayment stream, thus leaving taxpayers $100 million better off than they were before the refinancing legislation was passed. The $100 million benefit was confirmed by OMB. The federal government also confirmed that this refinancing resolved the issue of supposed BPA "subsidies." Energy Secretary Hazel O''Leary''s September 15, 1994 letter transmitting the BPA Appropriations Refinancing Act to Congress, said: ""Benefits to the Government of this legislation are that it provides a minimum $100 million increase in the present value of Bonneville''s debt service payments to the U.S. Treasury. This increase represents agreement between ratepayers and the Government to resolve subsidy criticisms for outstanding appropriation repayment obligations...... Bonneville''s customers recognize that recurring subsidy criticisms must be addressed once and for all because of the risk they pose to Bonneville''s financial stability and rate competitiveness. The legislation includes assurances to ratepayers that the Government will not increase the repayment obligations in the future."" Finally, as we have mentioned in the past, we are strongly opposed to the OMB proposal to change the accounting treatment of third-party financing arrangements Bonneville has used to finance transmission infrastructure improvements in the Northwest. On page 94 of the FY2007 budget, the Administration praises the Shultz-Wautoma electric transmission line project, which was funded in a deal between Bonneville and third-party investors. Yet, the OMB proposal to count such third-party arrangements against Bonneville's borrowing authority would effectively end these types of financing arrangements. This would effectively bring regional transmission investment to a halt or force dramatic electric rate increases. This proposal makes no sense because contrary to OMB assertions, these third-party financial transactions create no taxpayer liability. Non-federal bonds backed by Bonneville, such as those issued by third parties, are secured by the ratepayers of the Pacific Northwest, not the United States Treasury. In fact, these bonds specifically state, "[these] obligations...are not general obligations of the United States of America and are not secured by the full faith and credit of the United States of America." The proposal is also inconsistent with previous directives from OMB to Bonneville to seek third-party financing. And, it would limit Bonneville's ability to make capital investments, threatening regional reliability. Ultimately, the proposal would lead to Bonneville using revenue financing - that is, using rate increases to pay up front for capital improvements - a method of financing not used by any utility, public or private. We have been extremely disappointed with OMB repeatedly ignoring the substantive concerns raised by members of the Northwest congressional delegation about these Bonneville-related proposals. We urge you to withdraw the proposal to raise rates by directing a portion of Bonneville's secondary sales to the Treasury for accelerated debt repayment and to withdraw the proposed legislation to change the accounting treatment of third-party capital investments arranged by Bonneville. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Doc Hastings Norm Dicks Greg Walden Jim McDermott C.L. "Butch" Otter Darlene Hooley Mike Simpson Jay Inslee David Reichert Earl Blumenauer Brian Baird Adam Smith David Wu Rick Larsen Members of Congress
06.15.2006	February 16, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today introduced legislation to transfer approximately 12 acres of West Eugene Wetlands property to the City of Eugene. The property is currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management. The City of Eugene plans to build an environmental education center and wildlife viewing area on the property. "Transferring this property will allow the city to build upon the successful restoration of the West Eugene Wetlands. The planned education center and wildlife viewing area will be a real asset to the wetlands project and the community as a whole," DeFazio said. "This legislation will bring momentum to the establishment of a Wetlands Education Center that will reconnect the Wetlands to our community consciousness via education, recreation, and interpretation through our past, present and future. This project will expand our horizons in science and self-knowledge, not only for our region's youth, but for citizens of all ages," said Eugene Mayor Kitty Piercy. The legislation, known as the "Eugene Land Conveyance Act," is enthusiastically supported by the City of Eugene and the Bureau of Land Management. Companion legislation was previously introduced in the Senate by Sens. Ron Wyden and Gordon Smith. DeFazio's bill was referred to the House Committee on Resources where he is a senior member.
06.15.2006	Register Guard February 8, 2006 By Peter DeFazio America has a proud heritage as a beacon for the dispossessed and oppressed around the world, who come here for a shot at achieving their dreams. However, a nation that does not control its own borders is not secure. We need to know who is coming into our country, and we must keep out people who are not authorized to enter. With 500,000 or more individuals entering illegally every year, the status quo is not acceptable. Prior efforts by Congress to control immigration, including the reforms enacted in 1986 and 1996, failed for lack of meaningful employer sanctions. As a result, undocumented workers have been used and abused, driving down wages, benefits, and working conditions for all workers. The border security legislation I voted for, H.R. 4437, addresses this issue by requiring employers to verify a job applicant's eligibility for lawful employment with immigration and Social Security officials, rather than a cursory look at documents that can be easily forged. In addition, the bill doubles the fines for employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers to a minimum of $5,000 for a first offense and up to $40,000 for subsequent offenses. H.R. 4437 also improves border security by deploying increased personnel and requiring enhanced technology. The bill would end the "catch and release" program, in which illegal immigrants caught at the border from countries other than Mexico (Mexicans caught at the border are already immediately deported) are released into the U.S. once they promise to return for a court date. Not surprisingly, over 75 percent never show up and remain in the country illegally. Critics of the border security bill argue its security provisions are too tough. They reject legislation based on strong enforcement and security, arguing that all that is necessary is a guest worker program and amnesty. I admit that H.R. 4437 is not a finished legislative product, and I did not support every provision in it. But, it has kick-started a long overdue debate in Congress on immigration. I am not convinced there is a labor shortage that requires the importation of 550,000 or more guest workers every year, as envisioned by the McCain-Kennedy immigration reform bill, which also allows family members to come along, doubling or tripling the number of new arrivals. To the extent there may be shortages in particular industries, employers could increase wages and improve working conditions to attract legal workers. Only after improving wages and working conditions and proving that no Americans are available for the job should an employer be able to recruit guest workers. I am concerned that guest worker proposals will continue to erode the wages and working conditions of tens of millions of Americans and legal immigrants. The Commission on Immigration Reform created in 1995 by President Bill Clinton, reported, "Guest worker programs have depressed wages" and reduced employment opportunities for "unskilled American workers, including recent immigrants," who can be easily "displaced by newly entering guest workers." Other studies, including research by the National Research Council and the liberal Economic Policy Institute, show immigrants under guest worker programs are paid 15-33 percent less than American citizens, even in highly skilled jobs, driving down wages for all workers. All workers deserve the protection of labor laws. In fact, existing guest worker programs already nominally provide such protections, but they are not enforced. After years of half-hearted efforts, the lack of enforcement has reached crisis proportions under the current administration. I don't believe that will magically change under a new guest worker program. I do not support amnesty proposals that treat every immigrant the same, irrespective of how long they've been here or what they've contributed to their communities. It makes no sense to treat someone who just entered illegally last week the same as someone who has been in the country for a decade or more, gainfully employed and paying taxes, with children who are American citizens. Currently, more than four million immigrants around the world are waiting for their paperwork to be processed so they can enter the U.S. legally. It will be years (in the case of Mexico and the Philippines, often ten years or more) before they can enter the country under current quotas. Blanket amnesty for the 11 million already here illegally could delay or prevent the legal immigration of those who are complying with the law. I cannot support legislation that would hurt families following the rules established for legal immigration. I honestly don't have a complete solution to this problem. But, I do know that just implementing a new guest worker program and blanket amnesty will not solve the problem of illegal immigration; nor will a solution that focuses solely on border security; though increased border security and interior enforcement, including employer sanctions, should be the foundation of any comprehensive solution.
06.15.2006	February 7, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today was invited to the National Defense University in Washington, DC to participate in Global Tempest a Pandemic Influenza War Game. The exercise provided a forum to assess the range of policy options available to the United States in responding to an outbreak of pandemic influenza. DeFazio, a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, returned with a sobering view of the nation's preparedness for a pandemic. "The president and the Congress are not doing enough to prepare for the looming pandemic," said DeFazio. "Experts agree that an influenza pandemic is inevitable, the question is how bad it will be and what form it will take-H5N1, Sars or another strain altogether. It's clear, however that we can take concrete steps to be prepared, and to date, very little is being done." Lieutenant General Michael Dunn, USAF, President of National Defense University welcomed the participants and Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England opened the exercise. Participants included 10 Members of Congress and senior Executive Branch officials. "Just like protecting against the nuclear threat from the Soviet Union, we need to be prepared for this crisis," continued DeFazio. "We need state-of-the-art vaccine and antiviral production capacity to produce and stockpile antiviral medication, and we can't wait on the pharmaceutical industry to do it when it is in their interest." The exercise examined responses to the emergence of a potential pandemic flu strain overseas, the presentation of the first cases in the U.S. and its eventual development into a full blown pandemic worldwide and within America. Participants discussed the nation's pandemic preparedness, communication, surveillance, and detection capability as well as its response and containment capabilities.
06.15.2006	Hastings, DeFazio, Walden Signal Bipartisan Opposition to "Ill-Conceived" Plan for BPA February 6, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—Co-Chairs of the Northwest Energy Caucus Congressmen Doc Hastings (R-Wash.), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Greg Walden (R-Ore.), wasted no time in calling on the Administration to withdraw a provision in its budget proposal for next year that would increase power rates in the Pacific Northwest by 10 percent or more. "Pacific Northwest families, farms and job-creating businesses can ill-afford another rate increase at this time," the lawmakers said. Under the budget proposal submitted to Congress today, a portion of the Bonneville Power Administration's future revenues would be captured and used to accelerate repayment of its federal debt rather than to reduce Northwest power rates. In a letter sent today, Hastings, DeFazio and Walden asked the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to "suspend the pursuit of this ill-conceived plan which would negatively impact the Northwest economy." The lawmakers went on to express disappointment at the lack of consultation with the Northwest congressional delegation and noted BPA's long history of repaying their debt on time or ahead of schedule. "Under this direction, millions of dollars will be pulled out of our region's economy to pay a federal debt obligation that is already ahead of schedule for repayment," they said in the letter. A copy of the letter to OMB is attached below. February 6, 2006 Joshua B. Bolten Director Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 725 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Bolten: As co-chairs of the bipartisan Northwest Energy Caucus, we are writing to express our strong unified opposition to OMB's proposal to increase near term electric rates in the Pacific Northwest by accelerating Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) federal debt repayment. We ask that you suspend the pursuit of this ill-conceived plan, which will negatively impact the Northwest economy. As you know, BPA has made timely payments to Treasury for more than 20 years running. In fact, BPA has voluntarily made more than $1.46 billion in early payments on its federal debt. There are numerous built-in protections to assure this timely repayment of federal debt continues. We believe this proposal to use a portion of BPA's secondary sales revenues for accelerated debt repayment is a disguised rate increase. By capturing secondary revenues in this manner, electric rates throughout the Northwest will increase - perhaps by ten percent or more. This runs counter to the President's interest in reducing energy costs for Americans and will negatively impact electricity-intensive industries. Under this direction, millions of dollars will be pulled out of our region's economy today to pay a federal debt obligation that is already ahead of schedule for repayment. We are especially disappointed that this proposal has been made with no consultation with the Northwest congressional delegation. We have repeatedly requested, in correspondence and in congressional oversight hearings, greater consultation with OMB on these BPA budget issues. Without this communication, OMB has repeatedly issued proposals that reflect a lack of understanding of BPA's role in the Northwest economy. These proposals create tremendous uncertainty at a time when BPA and regional stakeholders are making significant decisions regarding near term rates and long term system allocation. Our region's ratepayers are still recovering from the dramatic electric rate increases that followed in the wake of the 2001 California electricity crisis and associated market manipulation. Successive years of drought and increasing fish costs have also reduced hydro generation and increased power rates. The families, farms, and job-creating businesses of the Pacific Northwest can ill-afford another rate increase at this time. We request that you postpone indefinitely further consideration of this accelerated debt repayment scheme. Sincerely, /s/ Peter DeFazio Doc Hastings Greg Walden Members of Congress cc: Energy Secretary Sam Bodman BPA Administrator Steve Wright
06.15.2006	February 6, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Greg Walden (R-OR) issued the below statements in response to inclusion of partial reauthorization of the crucial county payments law in President Bush's fiscal year 2007 budget. This law, which provides essential funding to counties throughout America containing federal forestland, is set to expire at the end of fiscal year 2006 and requires congressional reauthorization and appropriations to continue. DeFazio and Walden are coauthors of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act, H.R. 517. "I'm pleased to see that the president supports reauthorizing the critical county payments program, but the funding levels are inadequate." said DeFazio. "Congressman Walden and I have organized a strong, bipartisan coalition in the House that will use the president's proposal as a start, but we aim to reauthorize and fully fund the program. We have an obligation to support the rural Oregonians who for decades have been stewards of our federal lands. Ending the county payments program would abandon that century-long promise and economically devastate those communities." "It's most helpful to have the President's budget call for reauthorization of the county roads and schools program, and to have it provide some level of funding. That gives us a starting point that we never had with the Clinton administration's budgets. However, it's only a starting point, and a distant one from where we need to finish. We've already put together a strong coalition in the Congress and across the country. The federal government must keep its century-old commitment to forested communities and I won't stop working until it does," said Walden. H.R. 517 reauthorizes Public Law 106-393, introduced in 1999 and enacted in October 2000. More information on H.R. 517 can be found at https://thomas.loc.gov.
06.15.2006	Cuts in Student Loans and Medicaid make way for More Tax Cuts for Millionaires February 1, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today voted against balancing the budget on the backs of working families. DeFazio cast a "no" vote against a budget reconciliation package that would make $40 billion in mandatory cuts from critical programs such as student financial aid, health care, child support and food and nutrition programs to make way for $70 billion more in tax cuts for the wealthiest among us. "In his State of the Union address last night the president called for investment in math and science education so we can better compete in the technology sector. And today, he and the Republican leadership are advancing a bill that includes $12.7 billion in student loans to provide tax cuts for the wealthy. Which is it, Mr. President? Investment in education or more tax cuts for the investor-class? "This legislation reveals the true priorities of the president and Republican leadership. It attempts to balance the budget on the backs of students, seniors, and low-income Americans to make way for more tax cuts for those who earn over $300,000 a year. Today's legislation makes $40 billion in mandatory cuts from critical programs such as student financial aid, health care, child support and food and nutrition programs to make way for $70 billion more in tax cuts for the wealthiest among us. Despite the Republican rhetoric about deficit reduction, their budget plans will actually increase the deficit, not lower it. What happened to family values and fiscal conservatism?"
06.15.2006	Bush: Stay the Course; DeFazio: The Country is Going in the Wrong Direction January 31, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today responded to the president's State of the Union address before a joint session of Congress. Following are DeFazio's remarks: "Regrettably, the President offered a 'stay the course' speech at a time when a majority of Americans rightfully believe that the status quo is unacceptable and our country is heading in the wrong direction. The President's 'stay the course' policies mean that tax laws and budget priorities will continue to favor a handful of wealthy individuals while average families struggle to get by; the budget and trade deficits will continue to set new records, threatening our economic and national security; our troops will remain with no realistic strategy for bringing them home; and access to and the cost of health care will remain out of reach of tens of millions of families. Economy: "Although the economy is growing and the stock market is up, the benefits have yet to trickle down to working families. For these families, wages are falling, health care, education and energy costs are rising, large scale layoffs are increasingly common-place, employers are slashing health care benefits and pensions, and failed trade policies are leading to the export of millions of good jobs. We must reprioritize the budget, target tax cuts to working families and advance fair trade policies to keep high wage jobs at home and put Americans back to work." Federal Budget/Deficits: "While the President talked a good game, he failed to offer a serious proposal to get the federal budget under control. By endorsing trillions of dollars in additional tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefit those making more than $300,000 a year, the President forfeited the little remaining credibility he may have had on fiscal responsibility and deficit reduction. I agree there are areas of the federal budget that can be cut. But, we could eliminate the entire discretionary portion of the federal budget outside of the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security, and the federal budget would still be in deficit! To solve the budget crisis, we need discipline on both spending and taxation. The President continues to be in denial." Health Care: "Over 45 million Americans and more than 600,000 Oregonians have no health insurance. After five years of doing nothing, it's about time the president recognized this health care crisis. Unfortunately, his proposals will do little to help the uninsured or make health care more affordable. To provide effective health care coverage for all Americans we must stop subsidizing and coddling the industries at the heart of the problem, the insurance and pharmaceutical industries. "What's most telling is that his words tonight won't match his deeds tomorrow. Tonight the president called for making health care affordable for everyone, but tomorrow, in order to provide more tax cuts for his wealthy contributors, he will encourage members of Congress to pass a budget reconciliation bill that raises costs and cuts off access to millions of people who get their health care from Medicaid and Medicare. Energy: "After pushing an energy bill for more than four years that showered billions of dollars in subsidies on the oil, gas and coal industries, I am pleased the president is finally interested in discussing investment in renewable energy. I hope that he will put half as much energy into this effort as he did on his special interest energy bill approved last year. Iraq: "The U.S. has won in Iraq. Saddam Hussein is on trial. There is no threat from weapons of mass destruction. And the Iraqi people have adopted a constitution and elected a new government. It is time to turn over control of the country to the Iraqi government, Iraqi security forces, and the Iraqi people to build their future. It is time for our troops to come home." Terrorism: "I agree that the U.S. should use all tools at our disposal to battle al-Qaeda. I supported the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan to go after al-Qaeda and I opposed the Iraq war because it pulled military and intelligence assets away from the fight against al-Qaeda. I fully support monitoring al-Qaeda members and associates. But, as even key conservatives have noted, there is no reason that such surveillance cannot be done in a way that is consistent with federal law and the Constitution. The president is not above the law."
06.15.2006	January 17, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) today responded to a 6-3 decision by the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold Oregon's physician-assisted suicide law. Following is DeFazio's statement: "Today is a great day for Oregonians," said DeFazio. I'm pleased that the Supreme Court voted to uphold our state's Death With Dignity Act, a law that Oregonians approved twice at the polls. This will finally bring to an end to repeated attempts by the Bush administration to overturn the will of Oregon voters, infringe upon the rights of states, intrude into the difficult decisions made between patients and their doctors, and set back pain-management decades."
06.15.2006	DeFazio Calls on President to Include Program's Renewal in Annual Budget January 10, 2006Press Release | Contact: Kristie Greco (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) called on President Bush to include in his annual federal budget, funding to support the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2005, legislation that would reauthorize the successful "county payments" program for an additional seven years. "This program is the lifeblood of rural counties across America who serve every day as stewards of our federal lands," said DeFazio. "County Payments reauthorization has the support of members across the aisle in Congress and across the country. The next important step for maintaining the program that is critical to the existence of many Oregon counties is funding in the president's budget. We must keep our promises to rural America and maintain a century-long commitment to counties and child education." DeFazio's request came on the same day the Department of Agriculture issued $147 million for fiscal year 2005 through the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, to counties in Oregon to maintain schools, roads and other public services. Of Oregon's 36 counties, 32 received payments through the program totaling over $273 million last year. Because of the large amount of timber historically harvested from federal lands in Oregon, Oregon counties have received significant payments from the funding formula, with the Fourth and Second Districts receiving the most federal investment respectively.
05.16.2006	May 17, 2006Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Peter DeFazio today offered an amendment that would expedite salvage logging on millions of acres of federal land which is managed for timber production, and better prepare for forest fires and other unexpected catastrophic events on other lands. DeFazio offered the amendment to the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200, during consideration of the bill on the floor of the House. The amendment garnered 184 bipartisan votes. DeFazio predicted that in order for the bill to become law, changes would need to be made to the final version of H.R. 4200. In testimony taken by the Subcommittee on Forests, Oregon State College of Forestry Dean Dr. Hal Salwasser; Dr. Jerry Franklin, professor of ecosystem analysis at the University of Washington; and Dr. Norm Johnson, College of Forestry professor at Oregon State, all agreed that the goals and objectives for management of different land allocations is the key factor in determining where salvage is appropriate. "I attended multiple hearings on this issue with Chairman Walden and listened to the forest scientists and experts who testified," DeFazio said. "They contended that wildlife reserves should not be treated the same as industrial forest land. My amendment addresses these experts' criticism of H.R. 4200 and is based directly on their recommendations." Drs. Salwasser and Franklin also agree that the pre-approved practices in H.R. 4200 are unworkable and need to be specific to land allocation, forest type, and plant association group. They recommend amending land management plans to deal with these issues. The DeFazio amendment would have required the secretaries to amend land management plans to incorporate salvage options. “Another concern I have with this legislation in its current form is that it gives extraordinarily broad discretion to the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior,” DeFazio said. “I understand that some may want this administration’s political appointees to have this broad authority, but when Congress grants such broad discretion, they grant it to all administrations, including future administrations who may or may not use these extraordinary discretionary powers wisely." DeFazio’s amendment would have provided a workable framework for a bill with a chance to become law. His amendment attempted to strike a balance between what is appropriate management when timber production is the goal, and the more careful consideration that should take place when managing for wildlife, recreation, or other values. The DeFazio amendment would have also provide for greater participation by the public, more certainty by pre-planning for events, and helped to eliminate political manipulation and interference in these decisions.
11.28.2005	Lawmaker Sends Letter to Bush Before Major Speech November 29, 2005Press Release | Contact: Danielle Langone (202) 225-6416 WASHINGTON, DC—DC—In a letter sent to the president today, U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) restated his call for a plan to begin withdrawing troops safely from Iraq following the December parliamentary elections, and put control of the country in the hands of the Iraqis. DeFazio first stated this position in February. President Bush is scheduled to discuss the Iraq war in a major speech at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, tomorrow. In the letter, DeFazio asserts that setting a timeline for withdrawal would boost the new Iraqi government’s legitimacy, would send a powerful message by showing that democracy ended the US military presence rather than terrorist acts, could help accelerate Iraqi police and military training and readiness, could undermine support for the insurgent movement and would take away a recruiting tool for al Qaeda. In addition it would help lighten the burden on our over-stretched military and their families and would give US taxpayers some certainty about the true costs of the operation. Following is the text of the letter: November 29, 2005 The Honorable George W. Bush President 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Bush: I am writing to follow-up on my February 17, 2005, letter to you proposing an exit strategy for Iraq. I am again strongly urging you to take a number of concrete actions to improve the situation in Iraq and set the stage for U.S. troops to come home safely and with honor beginning early next year. I was heartened when millions of Iraqis, even at risk of life and limb, voted in late January to establish an interim government and constitutional assembly; and again in October to ratify a new constitution. And, I am pleased that elections will be held next month to elect a new parliament and permanent government. The December elections are a significant political benchmark, one that will not be repeated again for some time. Therefore, it is important to take advantage of this opportunity to signal to the Iraqi people in a tangible way that the U.S. has no long-term designs on their country by negotiating a timeline for withdrawal with the newly elected government. You and others in your administration have rejected negotiating a timeline for withdrawal, arguing that it would allow the insurgents to wait us out. I disagree. I believe a timeline, along with other actions to improve U.S. operations in Iraq, are essential to stabilizing Iraq and setting the stage for U.S. troops to come home. Most importantly, negotiating a timeline for withdrawal with the Iraqi government elected next month would show that democracy ended the U.S. military presence in Iraq, not terrorist or insurgent violence, which would allow our troops to come home with honor. A timeline and withdrawal plan negotiated with the Iraqi government would also boost the Iraqi government's legitimacy and claim to self-rule, and force the Iraqi government to take responsibility for itself and its citizens. Negotiating a withdrawal timeline and strategy with the Iraqi government could, more than possibly anything else, improve the standing of the Iraqi government in the eyes of its own people, a significant achievement in a region in which the standing of rulers and governments is generally low. Similarly, establishing a firm timeline for withdrawal could accelerate the development of Iraqi security forces and deepen their commitment to defending their own country and their own government. It would eliminate the conflict they now feel by working with what many of them see as an occupying force. It would allow them to defend a sovereign Iraqi government, rather than fight alongside U.S. forces. As long as the U.S. military remains in Iraq, Iraqi politicians and security forces will use it as a crutch and will likely fail to take the necessary steps to achieve independence. Announcing the termination of the open-ended U.S. military commitment in Iraq could also undermine support for insurgents, who have used the wide variety of grievances of ordinary Iraqis arising from the U.S. military presence to generate support for their cause. Establishing a withdrawal plan and timeline would remove one of the chief causes of instability in Iraq, the U.S. military presence itself. A negotiated drawdown and withdrawal would separate nationalist Iraqi insurgents, primarily Sunnis, trying to end the U.S. military presence, from the smaller number of foreign elements in Iraq causing terror for their own reasons. To the extent that a specific withdrawal plan would turn Iraqis (Shia, Kurds and Sunnis) against the foreign terrorists operating in Iraq in the wake of the U.S. invasion, it could be a key turning point in stabilizing the country. Remember, the insurgency is made up of two primary camps — nationalist Sunnis and a smaller number of foreign terrorists. These two camps have different motivations and different goals. Just as importantly, a specific plan and timeline for withdrawal would provide much-needed relief to over-burdened military personnel and their families and provide some certainty to U.S. taxpayers regarding the ultimate financial burden they'll be forced to bear. Finally, a plan for withdrawal could also help the United States in our broader fight against Islamic extremists with global ambitions (most notably al-Qaeda) by taking away a recruiting tool and training ground. Porter Goss, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, testified to Congress that, "Islamic extremists are exploiting the Iraqi conflict to recruit new anti-U.S. jihadists. These jihadists who survive will leave Iraq experienced and focused on acts of urban terrorism." He went on to say, "The Iraq conflict, while not a cause of extremism, has become a cause for extremists." In addition, the Commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, General George Casey, testified to Congress earlier this year that "the perception of occupation in Iraq is a major driving force behind the insurgency." In addition to negotiating a timeline for withdrawal, with the goal of having the bulk of U.S. troops out of Iraq within six to twelve months, the U.S. should: ? Renounce any U.S. interest in constructing permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq. ? Schedule a prompt and orderly withdrawal of U.S. troops from front line combat positions in Iraqi cities and towns, turning over daily security patrols, interactions with citizens, and any offensive security actions to the Iraqis themselves. Prior to withdrawal, these forces could be redeployed to provide border security in Iraq to stem the flow of foreign terrorists entering the country, accelerate the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces, and contribute to reconstruction projects. ? Accelerate reconstruction spending and grant the bulk of reconstruction contracts to local companies employing Iraqis rather than multinational corporations, which have proven inefficient (fraudulent in some cases), unnecessarily inflexible, and have even imported workers rather than employing Iraqis. Doing so could save American taxpayers money and lead to more rapid improvement in basic services that the Iraqis expected a long time ago. It would also likely mean that more money would go to actual construction rather than security costs. According to one report, security costs for a contract in Basra held by a multinational company accounted for 40 percent of the dollars in the contract. When I was in Iraq, I witnessed the positive impact that small-scale military reconstruction projects were having. Commanders had the flexibility to work with local leaders to get projects done quickly, relatively cheaply, and with Iraqi labor. According to one report, a cement plant that a multinational company claimed would take $15 million to get running, the Iraqis were able to restart for $80,000. ? Rather than establishing one of the largest U.S. embassies in the world, reduce the Baghdad embassy to normal size and authority. I believe the steps I've outlined would reduce hostility to the United States in Iraq, bring home our men and women in uniform with honor as soon as possible, and leave a sovereign, if not ideal, Iraqi government to take care of itself. Thank you for your consideration of my request. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress
