01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced legislation to support school choice for children of active duty members in the United States Armed Forces (H.R. 740): “Our brave women and men in uniform fight on the front lines for our freedom. Not only are we grateful to our heroes, but also to their families for their service. The average child in a military family moves six to nine times in his or her school career. Because of frequent moves and a lack of school choice, children in military families feel the negative impact,” said Wilson. “This is why I introduced the Military Child Educational Freedom Act today. Specifically, this legislation allows Coverdell Education Savings Accounts to be used on home school educational expenses. It is our duty to expand opportunities for the education of our heroes’ children and offer these families the support they deserve.” “I commend Congressman Wilson on introducing the Military Child Educational Freedom Act which supports school choice opportunities for our nation’s military and military connected families by providing them with much needed financial assistance. Every parent should be empowered to make decisions in the best interest of their children and this bill will help ensure military connected students have the resources needed to be successful,” said South Carolina Superintendent of Education Molly Spearman. “Home School Legal Defense Association (HSLDA) strongly supports Congressman Joe Wilson’s legislation to support military families who homeschool their children. Our nation's war fighters make sacrifices on behalf of their fellow Americans every day. A growing number of them are also making the choice to homeschool; these families deserve the same financial break as their public and private school peers. The Military Child Educational Freedom Act expands the use of Coverdell Education Savings Accounts to military families who homeschool, making it easier for them to use more of their own money for educational expenses. HSLDA urges Congress to pass this commonsense bill and help our military families,” said James R. Mason, VP of Litigation for HSLDA. “The South Carolina Association of Independent Home Schools (SCAIHS) commends Congressman Joe Wilson for his continued and unyielding support of both homeschooling and military families. This bill supports parental rights in education and extends that in a very practical way to military families who choose to homeschool, by allowing them to save their own money for use in Coverdell Savings Accounts. Homeschooling is an excellent educational option for military families and this bill makes that choice more accessible,” said SCAIHS.
01.18.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Joe Wilson (R-SC) and William Keating (D-MA) are taking bipartisan action to ensure Saudi Arabia remains committed to combatting extremism and hatred: “Textbooks published by Saudi Arabia, for use in the country and throughout the world, are full of intolerant content that incite youth to hatred and violence. For over a decade, Saudi Arabia has promised to review these textbooks and remove intolerant content. Unfortunately, the Kingdom has not lived up to its promises,” said Wilson. “The Saudi Educational Transparency and Reform Act of 2019 requires the U.S. State Department to review Saudi textbooks annually and ensure that Riyadh is upholding its pledge to peace. I am grateful to Congressman Keating for his leadership on this matter, and I look forward to continuing our shared commitment to combatting the evil ideology that inspires terrorism.” “Saudi Arabia continues to turn a blind eye to the intolerant rhetoric in children’s educational textbooks. Unfortunately, this rhetoric only contributes to increased violence towards vulnerable groups inside the Kingdom and throughout the region. The Saudi Educational Transparency and Reform Act of 2019 will help make sure Riyadh takes a more proactive approach to eliminating all hateful content from these materials and encourage them to instead ensure children are receiving meaningful educational content that promotes peace and understanding and equips them with the knowledge they need to contribute to and compete in the global marketplace. I appreciate working with Congressman Wilson in introducing this important legislation again this congress,” said Keating. To read more about H.R. 554, the Saudi Educational Transparency and Reform Act of 2019 click here.
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Joe Wilson (R-SC), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Steve Chabot (R-OH), and Tom Suozzi (D-NY) are calling for President Donald Trump to apply terrorism sanctions on two notorious Iranian-backed armed groups for contributing to the destabilization of Iraq. “The Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2019 is a necessary step to hold As-Saib Ahl Al-Haq (AAH) and Harakat Hizballah Al-Nujaba (HHN) responsible for their violation of basic human rights in Iraq and across the region,” said Wilson. “These two groups have American blood on their hands and are responsible for over 6,000 attacks against the United States and our coalition forces since 2011. It is our responsibility to continue promoting peace through strength. Imposing these sanctions will send a strong message from the United States – we will not allow Iran to continue wreaking havoc in the Middle East without suffering the consequences. I am grateful to President Donald Trump for his continued leadership against terrorist organizations, and I will continue to stand up for stability and peace in the Middle East.” “Congress must stand up against those who destabilize the Middle East. AAH and HHN are terrorist organizations which violate human rights and threaten American troops, exactly the type of groups that should be subject to economic sanctions,” said Sherman. “As-Saib Ahaal Al-Haq and Harakat Hizballah Al-Nujaba must no longer be allowed to spread terror, destabilize Iraq, and carry out the orders of the IRGC. I have long believed that we must do more to stifle terrorism, push back on Iran and counter the Mullahs’ ambitions. As a result, I am proud to join my colleagues in this effort intended to put an end to these groups’ heinous activities, and I am hopeful that Congress will complete work on this important legislation in the near future,” said Chabot. “In Iraq, Iranian-backed militias beholden to Qassem Soleimani have been committing human rights abuses for years. As-Saib Ahl Al Haq and Harakat Hizballah Al-Nujaba have been threatening American troops and the Iraqi people for far too long. This bipartisan legislation is an important step towards punishing these groups and their backers for their nefarious activities in Iraq and the region,” said Suozzi. To read more about H.R. 361, the Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2019, click here.
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Joe Wilson (SC-02) and John Yarmuth (KY-03) introduced H.R. 553, the Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act, to eliminate an offset placed on surviving spouses of service members who pass away during active duty or spouses of retirees who die of a service-connected cause.“Members of our military risk their lives for our freedoms every day. It is unconscionable to think there is a ‘Widow’s Tax’ on the surviving family members of our courageous men and women. We owe it to them to secure stable benefits in the event of their retirement or death,” Wilson said. “For too long, the Survivors Benefit Plan (SBP) reduction by the amount of paid Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) has been an unfair penalty that cuts earned benefits to military survivors. This issue creates a substantial burden for the surviving families, and we must act now.”“The brave men and women who put their lives on the line in defense of our nation deserve to know that their loved ones will be taken care of should tragedy strike. I’m proud to join Congressman Joe Wilson in introducing legislation to end the so-called Widow’s Tax and ensure that the survivors of military servicemembers who give their lives for our country get the benefits they have more than earned. This legislation corrects a terrible wrong and makes clear that we support members of our military not just when we need them, but when their families need us,” said Yarmuth.​
01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), the incoming Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, released the following statement after introducing a resolution to reassert the connection between the Jewish people and the city of Jerusalem: “The connection of the Jewish people to the ancient city of Jerusalem is an indisputable historical fact,” said Wilson. “Unfortunately, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has repeatedly passed resolutions that fly in the face of the historical and archaeological records in an effort to minimize or erase the history of the Jewish people in their most-sacred city. This resolution reaffirms the Jewish people’s connection to Jerusalem, and supports Israel and the United States’ decision to withdraw from UNESCO this year as a result of the organization’s clear bias against the Jewish state.” ​
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to the national address on immigration given by President Donald Trump: “I support the decision of President Donald Trump to prioritize border security and address the matter with great urgency. The American people understand that a single intruder in their home would be considered a personal emergency, as it should be understood that thousands of intruders into our country is a national crisis.” ###
01.07.2019	West Columbia, S.C. – Today, January 7th, U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will host his annual legislative agenda press tour. After presenting the 2019 agenda, Congressman Joe Wilson will take questions. Midlands Press Conference 10:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m. 1700 Sunset Boulevard (US 378), Suite 1 West Columbia, SC 29169 Aiken Press Conference 11:30 a.m.-12:00 p.m. 1930 University Parkway, Third Floor Aiken, SC 29801 Note: The press conference will take place outside of the Council Chambers. Barnwell Press Conference 1:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 57 Wall Street Barnwell, SC 29812 Note: The press conference will take place on the front steps of the Courthouse. In the event of inclement weather, the conference will take place in Room 106. ​
01.07.2019	West Columbia, S.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) presented his 2019 Legislative Agenda at media presentations across the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, visiting in the Midlands, Aiken, and Barnwell. “With President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress, we have promoted positive conservative change,” Wilson said. “As a member of the minority party, I will continue fighting for limited government and expanded freedom for American families.”“We can build on the successes of 2018 which I saw firsthand,” said Wilson. “As Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee of the Armed Services Committee, we reversed the decline of our military. With my leading the House delegation for the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem, I know the security of Israel is enhanced. And with middle class incomes at a record high, we see the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.”As incoming Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, Wilson is also committed to our crucial alliance with Israel and to reducing terrorist violence in the region working closely with allies from Morocco to NATO member Turkey. “We need to further peace through strength to protect American families,” said Wilson. Throughout the 116th Congress, Wilson will advance legislation in the following areas:Create Jobs and Economic Growth by working with local chambers and agencies to bring quality jobs to South Carolina, protecting our “Right to Work” laws, continuing to advocate for the critical missions at the Savannah River Site and Savannah River National Lab, and repealing Obamacare regulations that destroy jobs.Promote Conservative Alternatives by supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution and conservative budgets, implementing the tax cuts to allow families to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and eliminating burdensome government regulations that stifle small businesses and job creation.Advocate for Foreign Affairs Opportunities by encouraging public private partnerships to grow free enterprise economies worldwide, strengthening our nation’s alliances for expanded fair trade, attracting increased foreign direct investment to bring more jobs to the U.S., and protecting our diplomats and military personnel abroad and securing our national security interests across the world.Support our Military and Veterans by maintaining our military’s responsiveness and capabilities to promote peace through strength, protecting TRICARE benefits and sustaining quality of life for military families, reversing defense sequestration which hollows out the military, supporting National Guard and Reserve units, and protecting reforms to the VA system. ​
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after voting in favor of greater funding for border security and disaster relief: “Enhanced border security is critical to ensure the safety of South Carolinians and American families,” said Wilson. “The border security funding language that the House added is an important first step to securing our country from foreign threats. Additionally, I support the government funding measure presented today because it gives much-needed disaster relief to our friends who are suffering from the recent damage caused by wildfires, hurricanes, and floods.”
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement upon the retirement announcement of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis: “The service of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis should be remembered as a reversal of the decline of the military as he promoted peace through strength. I congratulate Secretary Mattis for his success. Under his guidance, the National Defense Authorization Act on August 13th was the earliest defense authorization in 40 years. Additionally, on September 28, 2018, the defense appropriations bill was signed in to law, making it the first time in more than 20 years that the military has been fully funded before the beginning of the next fiscal year. Secretary Mattis is a proven American hero, and I am grateful for his leadership.” ​
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed the 2018 Farm Bill, which is now headed to the desk of President Donald Trump: “Congress passed the 2018 Farm Bill which provides much-needed certainty to South Carolina farmers. As the sponsor of the South Carolina Peanut Parity Act of 2017, I was grateful to see this legislation as part of the agreement. Peanut Parity is a crucial piece of legislation that gives South Carolina a voice on the Peanut Standards Board. South Carolina is fourth in the country for peanut production, and we produce over eight percent of peanuts nationwide.”
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump signing H.R. 390, the Iraq and Syria Genocide Relief and Accountability Act of 2018: “By supporting genocide relief for innocent nationals of Iraq and Syria, President Trump has taken a great and much-needed step towards combating religious injustice in the Middle East. Because of this law, the United States is ensuring stability and basic human rights for communities that are suffering from persecution and crimes against humanity. Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04) has been a tireless leader in opposing religious persecution. I am grateful to President Donald Trump and to my fellow Members of Congress for passing this crucial legislation.” Click here to read the full text of the Iraq and Syria Genocide Relief and Accountability Act of 2018. ​
11.27.2018	Congressman Wilson Applauds House Passage of the Preventing Destabilization of Iraq Act Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4591, the Preventing Destabilization of Iraq Act, which included Congressman Wilson’s amendment: “A comprehensive strategy is necessary to combat Iran’s deadly influence in the region. This strategy must include sanctions on specific terrorist organizations in Iraq and Syria that are supported by Iran. I am grateful the House passed H.R. 4591, the Preventing Destabilization of Iraq Act, which imposes sanctions on perpetrators of violence that threatens the stability in Iraq. My amendment adds two additional Iranian-backed terrorist organizations to that list, the Liwa Fatemiyoun and Liwa Zainebiyoun.” In addition to Congressman Wilson’s amendment, H.R. 5491 imposes sanctions on Asa’ib Ahl al-Haq and Harakat Hizballah al Nujaba, as well as seven specific individuals. You can find the text of the amendment here.
11.20.2018	ICYMI: Congressman Wilson Urges American Allies to Oppose Anti-Israel UN Resolutions Last week, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent 27 letters to nations across the globe regarding the upcoming United Nations General Assembly resolution votes that continue the mandates and funding for the Division for Palestinian Rights (DPR) in the U.S. Secretariat and the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People (CEIRPP). These organizations impede the Middle East peace process by creating institutional bias against Israel, as well as waste U.S. resources sent to the UN. The letters sent by Congressman Wilson ask these countries to consider changing their votes during the upcoming UN General Assembly sessions. Any show of support—including an abstention—is progress toward protecting Israel and the prospects of a peace deal. Letters were sent to the following countries: Argentina; Australia; Benin; Bulgaria; Burkina Faso; Cameroon; Cape Verde; Chad; Colombia; Czech Republic; Ghana; Greece; Hungary; Italy; Latvia; Lithuania; Netherlands; Palau; Poland; Romania; Rwanda; Samoa; Sierra Leone; Slovakia; Tonga; Tuvalu; and Vanuatu. You can find a copy of a letter sent here.
11.14.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Condemns Terrorist Attacks by Hamas Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement condemning the recent terrorist attacks by Hamas against Israeli civilians: "The murderous terrorist attacks in Gaza over the past two days are yet another reminder of the dangerous circumstances the people of Israel face while Hamas continues to kill innocent civilians through indiscriminate rocket attacks. I hope the international community will recognize and condemn the horrific situation perpetrated by Hamas in Gaza. I urge the Senate to pass H.R. 3542, the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, which will help ensure that innocent Israeli civilians are spared by proactively imposing strong sanctions against Hamas.”
11.09.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Announces Candidacy for Ranking Member of Foreign Affairs Committee Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced his candidacy to be the next Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee: “Despite all our hard work over the past two years, Tuesday did not pan out the way any of us would have liked. As we examine what went wrong, I know that if we take the right steps now, we will take back the majority in 2020.’ “Being in the minority presents major challenges for Republicans. Having previously served for several years in the minority, I am prepared to advance Republican principles and stop Democrats from undermining the Trump administration. My goal as Ranking Member will be to remain a tireless advocate for our Conference in support of President Donald Trump.’ “I believe my successful tenure as Chairman of three House Armed Services subcommittees, my experience leading a Congressional delegation to Jerusalem for the opening of the U.S. embassy, my leadership as Co-Chairman of the UK and EU caucuses, and my unwavering support for the Republican Party make me the best fit for Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.’ “As the current Chairman of the Republican Study Committee Foreign Affairs and National Security Task Force, I worked to keep members informed on how foreign policy issues directly affect their constituents through meetings and round-tables with ambassadors, parliamentarians, and policy experts.’ “As Ranking Member, I will continue providing opportunities for members to be more involved in foreign affairs and foster positive relationships with world leaders.’ “With increased threats to American safety and security, we need successful leadership. I believe as an accomplished legislator, foreign affairs expert, and effective communicator of ‘American Peace Through Strength,’ I am prepared to serve as Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.”
11.02.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Supports Decision to Reimpose Sanctions on Iran West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement supporting President Donald Trump’s decision to reimpose sanctions on Iran: “I appreciate President Donald Trump’s decision to reimpose sanctions on Iran, which continues to promote worldwide terror by funding terrorist organizations, such as Hizbollah and Hamas, who attack Israel. Iran is continuing to develop and proliferate missiles against UN Security Council Resolutions, so President Trump made the correct decision to reimpose sanctions and continue to fulfill Promises Made, Promises Kept.”
11.02.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds October Job Numbers West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement praising the October job numbers: “Last month, the economy added 250,000 new jobs across the country. The wage growth increased to 3.1 percent over the past year, the highest rise in 10 years. The unemployment rate now sits at 3.7 percent- the lowest since 1969. The unemployment number would have been even lower, but 700,000 people reentered the job market. By creating jobs, lowering unemployment, and increasing wages, President Donald Trump is continuing his effective record of Promises Made and now Promises Kept, and I am grateful that he keeps his promises to create jobs. Although there is still more work to do, I am grateful for his consistent work to aid in positive job creation for American families.”
10.19.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Meets with President Trump on MOX Washington, D.C.– Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after attending a meeting in the White House with President Donald Trump to support the Mixed Oxide Fuel (MOX) Fabrication Facility project: “I was grateful for the opportunity to join my colleagues Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, as well as Governor Henry McMaster and Attorney General Alan Wilson, to explain to President Donald Trump why the Department of Energy should keep its promise to the people of South Carolina by reversing its dangerous decision to abandon MOX. “As a supporter of the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement that led to the creation of the MOX Fabrication Facility, I have successfully fought for funding for the project as a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee. I fought back against President Barack Obama when his administration first attempted to shut down MOX, and I have spoken on the House floor every year since in support of this project. Currently, South Carolina is at risk of becoming a de-facto repository for weapons grade plutonium, and I will continue to support all efforts to complete MOX. “The meeting with President Donald Trump was productive, and I am hopeful that he will reverse the Department of Energy’s decision and continue moving forward with this critical project.”
10.09.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson’s Statement on Ambassador Nikki Haley West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement regarding Ambassador Nikki Haley’s retirement announcement: “I am grateful for the leadership and service of my dear friend Nikki Haley. Nikki has done a phenomenal job in her role as the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations promoting fairness for Israel; consistently pushing for Russian sanctions; standing up to the murderous regime in Iran; and supporting the U.S. withdrawal from the United Nations Human Rights Council, which wastes U.S. tax dollars by unfairly targeting Israel. I appreciate President Donald Trump’s recognition of Ambassador Haley in the Oval Office following her decision to retire as Ambassador. I wish her and her husband Michael all the best in their future endeavors.”
10.06.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds Confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court Springdale, S.C.- Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement applauding the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court: “Congratulations to Associate Justice of the Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh, as well as his wonderful wife Ashley and their daughters. Justice Kavanaugh is highly qualified and respected, and has a distinguished record of being fair, impartial, and faithful to the Constitution."
10.01.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds US-Mexico-Canada Agreement West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement applauding the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA): “President Donald Trump successfully negotiated an updated trade agreement to replace the outdated North American Free Trade Agreement, proving once again his commitment to Promises Made, Promises Kept. The US-Mexico-Canada Agreement represents a win for American farmers and workers, and it will create more jobs across the country. This 21st century trade agreement includes modernized provisions to protect intellectual property and promote digital trade. When finalized, the USMCA will establish fair trade throughout North America and support job creation in South Carolina.” ###
09.28.2018	ICYMI: House Passes Tax Reform 2.0 Washington, D.C. – This week House Republicans passed three pieces of legislation, which makes tax cuts for individuals permanent, and helps small businesses provide retirement plans for employees and families start saving earlier. “Due to the tax cuts of President Donald Trump and the Republican Congress, there has been unprecedented job growth for American families,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02). “Tax Reform 2.0 will provide increased certainty for our families, workers, and small businesses while unleashing even more economic growth and creating jobs for American families.” You can find more information below: H.R. 6757 - Family Savings Act: This legislation encourages retirement and family savings. This measure removes the age limit on individual retirement account contributions and exempts people with less than $50,000 in their retirement accounts from taking required minimum distributions, which starts when you turn 70½. In addition, it allows families to withdraw up to $7,500, penalty-free, from retirement accounts for costs related to a new child, whether by birth or adoption. This legislation also expands 529 education plans to allow these resources to be used for apprenticeship programs, education loan repayment, and homeschooling expenses. A provision in this legislation would allow families to contribute $2,500 per year to a Universal Savings Account and allow those funds to be withdrawn without a tax penalty. The Universal Savings Accounts are more streamlined and flexible, which would encourage savings. H.R. 6756 - American Innovation Act: This legislation lets new businesses deduct up to $20,000 in start-up expenses, which will promote innovation, entrepreneurship, and job creation. Currently, taxpayers are only able to deduct up to $5,000. The American Innovation Act also allows new companies, which experience a change in ownership, to claim certain tax breaks that were previously limited. H.R. 6760 - Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act: This legislation makes the individual tax cuts, which took effect this year, permanent and locks in other positive changes from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed last year. This legislation ensures that the doubled standard deduction and elimination of personal exemptions would become permanent, along with the increased child tax credit which helps families.
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), with Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), introduced House Resolution 1101, which affirms the relationship between the United States and the Kingdom of Morocco while condemning the recent actions by the Polisario Front, a terrorist organization funded by Iran. “The Kingdom of Morocco was the first country to recognize the United States in 1777 and remains an important strategic ally and partner for peace in the Middle East and North Africa,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “The terrorist regime in Iran has been funding attacks against Morocco, by the Polisario Front, and it is time for the United Nations to promote a peaceful resolution to this Western Sahara conflict.” You can find the text for House Resolution 1101 here. ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced an amendment that was passed during the House Foreign Affairs Committee Markup. This amendment to H.R. 4591, the Preventing Destabilization of Iraq Act, adds two murderous militias to be considered as Foreign Terrorist Organizations due to their attempts to destabilize Iraq and Syria. “The United States cannot allow Iranian influence to fill the void left by a defeated ISIS in Iraq and Syria,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “Iran is the foremost state sponsor of terrorism, and it is critical that we identify and sanction all groups attempting to spread Iran’s malign influence in the region.”
09.26.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Receives the NFIB Guardian of Small Business Award Washington, D.C.- Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation's leading small business association, named him a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America's small businesses: "I am grateful for the leadership of NFIB President Juanita Duggan and am honored to receive the Guardian of Small Business award from the nation's voice for small businesses. NFIB's work to create long-term private sector jobs and protect small business owners in South Carolina is appreciated by hardworking residents across our great state. I am always inspired by visiting businesses with the NFIB sticker at the entrance knowing that NFIB promotes jobs.”
09.25.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Praises President Trump's Speech at the UN General Assembly Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement praising President Donald Trump’s speech at the United Nations General Assembly today: “We have seen tremendous progress since the last time President Donald Trump spoke at the United Nations General Assembly. Just one year ago, the lives of American citizens in the territory of Guam were under threat and missiles were flying over Japan. Today, North Korea has come to the negotiating table, in part, because President Trump effectively promoted Peace Through Strength.’ “Since President Trump took office, we have withdrawn from the failed Iran Deal, which funded Iran’s efforts to build nuclear-capable missiles, fund terrorism, and fuel conflict across the Middle East. The United States continues to stand with the long-suffering Iranian people, who are the rightful heirs to Iran’s rich heritage and the real victims of the regime’s policies.’ “I am grateful that President Donald Trump kept his commitment to the American people by moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem and clearly established that each country has an inherent right to choose its own capital.’ “I applaud President Trump for taking additional steps to further isolate the bad actors in Venezuela. The U.S. Treasury Department correctly decided to sanction four members of the inner circle of Venezuelan President Maduro, who relies on these loyalists to maintain his authoritarian control over Venezuela.’ “America has also made great strides in creating jobs. Hispanic, African, and Asian Americans have record low unemployment, with a record number of women currently employed. Jobless claims are at a 50-year low, and the Republican agenda of creating jobs through tax cuts and deregulation is working.”
09.24.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Praises Updated KORUS Free Trade Agreement Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement praising the new US-Korea Free Trade Agreement that was signed today by President Donald Trump: “I am grateful for the jobs created in South Carolina by South Korean investments as a result of fair trade. Last year, Samsung announced a $380 million dollar project in South Carolina, which will create 1,000 jobs. In addition, South Korea was the seventh largest receiver of exports from South Carolina in 2017. This updated trade agreement supports the U.S. auto industry and reduces burdensome regulations on exports to South Korea. I look forward to the continued expansion of this mutually beneficial relationship.” You can find more details on the updated trade agreement here.
09.06.2018	ICYMI: Congressman Joe Wilson Fights for Answers on Foreign Service Officer Attacks In June, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced H.R. 6262, the Mitigating Attacks on Diplomats Act, which would identify methods that protect against non-traditional assaults against our Foreign Service officers, their families, and our embassy structures. Congressman Wilson also sent a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo requesting information regarding the strange and unexplained symptoms suffered by U.S. diplomats working in China and Cuba. Fortunately, the State Department has taken these acoustic attacks seriously. Today, Congressman Wilson attended the Foreign Affairs Western Hemisphere Subcommittee hearing on “U.S. Policy Toward Cuba.” He used this opportunity to request additional information from senior officials at the State Department about the safety of our Foreign Service officers. Congressman Wilson will continue to fight to ensure this issue remains a priority.
09.05.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Applauds Passage of Bill Enhancing Student Financial Counseling Washington, D.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02), Vice Chairman of the House Education and Workforce Committee, applauded the House passage of H.R. 1635 - Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act: “A strong academic foundation paves the way for life-long success. Unfortunately, Americans currently hold more than $1.4 trillion in student loan debt, in part due to the lack of critical information provided to students about the long-term burden of unmanageable debt. By implementing annual financial counseling, our students can feel confident in their decisions to achieve a college or graduate degree. I would like to thank Education and Workforce Chair Virginia Foxx and Rep. Brett Guthrie for their leadership on this issue.” You can find H.R. 1635 here.
08.31.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Applauds President Trump's Action on Associate Retirement Plans Charlotte, N.C. - Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement applauding President Donald Trump’s executive order that promotes retirement security: “America’s small business owners and employees promote job creation, they keep our communities thriving, and they deserve the peace of mind that comes with retirement security. I was grateful for the opportunity to be with President Donald Trump as he continues to achieve Promises Made, Promises Kept. This executive order takes an important step forward in helping American families across the country enjoy a more fulfilling life during their retirement.”
08.15.2018	Schedule Announced for Rep. Joe Wilson's Annual Bus Tour On Monday, August 20th, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual district Bus Tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout all five counties of South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his work in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Jennifer Krantz with Congressman Wilson’s office at Jennifer.krantz@mail.house.gov. Monday, August 20, 2018 Aiken Day 9:15AM: Aiken Regional Airport Press Conference - 129 Aviation Boulevard, Aiken 10:30AM: Tour of Zeus - 2360 Levels Church Road, Aiken 12:00PM: Aiken Rotary Club - Newberry Hall - 117 Newberry Street, Southwest, Aiken 2:00PM: Tour of Aiken County Career & Technology Center - 2455 Jefferson Davis Highway, Warrenville 3:00PM: Tour of TTX - 1 Hamburg Road, North Augusta, SC Tuesday, August 21, 2018 Lexington Day 9:00AM: Irmo Chamber of Commerce - 1235 Columbia Avenue, Irmo 10:15AM: Tour of Chapin Town Hall - 157 NW Columbia Avenue, Chapin 12:00PM: Beverage South of Aiken/Columbia - 265 Metropolitan Drive, West Columbia, 1:00PM: Cayce-West Columbia Rotary Club - Brookland Baptist - 1066 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia 2:45PM: Tour of Shumpert's IGA - 861 Pine Street, Pelion 4:00PM: Tour of Tidewater Boats - 120 Glassmaster Road, Lexington Wednesday, August 22, 2018 Midlands Day 9:15AM: Tour of LuLaRoe - 2000 Carolina Pines Drive, Blythewood 10:45AM: Visit with the office of the Adjutant General - State House Complex, Wade Hampton Building, 1015 Sumter Street, Columbia 11:45AM: Tour of Atria Forest Lake - 4405 Forest Drive, Columbia 1:00PM: Forest Acres Rotary - 6719 N. Trenholm Road, Columbia 2:30PM: Tour of Dorn VA Medical Center - 6439 Garners Ferry Road, Columbia 4:00PM: Washington Night in SC - Columbia Marriott - 1200 Hampton Street, Columbia Thursday, August 23, 2018 Barnwell and Orangeburg Day 10:00AM: Tour of Augusta Fiberglass Coating - 86 Lake Cynthia Drive, Blackville 11:30PM: Tour of NARENCO Solar Farm - 6653 Capital Way, Springfield 1:00PM: Shealy's BBQ - 340 E Columbia Avenue, Batesburg-Leesville 2:00PM: Tour of Terra Kotta Farms - 2412 Lewie Road, Leesville **Some stops are subject to last-minute scheduling changes.**
08.09.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Applauds Decrease in Unemployment Claims West Columbia, S.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement applauding the Department of Labor’s announcement today that they have adjusted the unemployment claims from last week, and highlighted a decrease in claims: “The Department of Labor’s announcement today highlighting the decrease in unemployment claims is a positive step that shows the Republican agenda of creating jobs through tax cuts and deregulation is working. I am grateful that the current unemployment claims are at historic lows and I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to promote policies that allow small businesses to expand and create jobs.” Additional positive economic news: At over 155 million people, a historic number of Americans are currently employed. The unemployment rate is near an 18 year low at 3.9% For three straight months the number of jobs openings has exceeded the number of people looking for work. The U.S. currently has record low levels of unemployment for African Americans, Latinos, Asian-Americans, and women. For every one new regulation that has been added under the Trump Administration, 22 have been removed. American families have received the biggest pay increase in nearly a decade. You can read the Department of Labor’s report on the adjusted unemployment claims here.
08.06.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Applauds Increased Sanctions on Iran Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), a senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement applauding the White House’s decision to increase sanctions on Iran: “As a longtime opponent of the failed Iran Deal, I am grateful for President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw from the deal and increase sanctions on Iran that will allow us to renegotiate from a position of strength and protect our allies in the region, especially Israel. “Since the deal was reached, Iran’s aggression has only increased. The regime has used the windfall of newly accessible funds it received under the JCPOA to build nuclear-capable missiles, fund terrorism, and fuel conflict across the Middle East and beyond. “The United States continues to stand with the long-suffering Iranian people, who are the rightful heirs to Iran’s rich heritage and the real victims of the regime’s policies. We look forward to the day when the people of Iran, and all people across the region, can prosper together in safety and peace." You can find additional information regarding President Donald Trump’s Executive Order reimposing certain sanctions on Iran here.
07.27.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Praises U.S. Economy Growth Rate of 4.1% West Columbia, SC. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement praising the April-June Gross Domestic Product announcement: "The second quarter growth rate of 4.1% is another promise made and now promise kept by President Donald Trump, and I am grateful that he keeps his promises to create jobs. The tax cuts passed by Republicans clearly have had a positive impact, as consumer spending increased. The high growth rate is also due to the increase in jobs, which has led to record low levels of unemployment. Although there is still more work to do, I am grateful for these positive steps in the right direction that help American families by promoting jobs."
07.26.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Praises House Passage of FY19 Defense Bill Conference Report Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, released the following statement praising the House passage of the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act conference report: “As Chairman of the Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee and one of Speaker Paul Ryan’s conferees, I strongly support the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act and am grateful for the House passage of the conference report today. “This report represents a huge win for South Carolina, as it provides critical funding for Fort Jackson and continues construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at the Savannah River Site. “The conference report also contains policy and funding initiatives that provide our military the resources necessary to restore readiness and rebuild combat capability. Thank you Chairman Mac Thornberry for your leadership in expediting this important legislation in record time.” Congressman Wilson delivered remarks regarding the FY19 NDAA conference report on the House floor today. Click here to watch Congressman Wilson’s remarks.
07.25.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Introduces United States-India Enhanced Cooperation Act Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 6506, the United States-India Enhanced Cooperation Act of 2018, with Congressman Ami Bera (D-CA), Congressman George Holding (R-NC), and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (R-HI): “The United States-India relationship is a cornerstone of security in the Indo-Pacific region. By designating India as a Major Defense Partner, we can strengthen our alliance and enhance our defense and security cooperation with India. Together, we can address emerging common threats, support maritime security in the region, and enhance military cooperation for joint exercises and humanitarian assistance. The citizens of America and India cherish the same values and independent freedoms, and the United States-India Enhanced Cooperation Act will strengthen this important alliance.” You can find the text of H.R. 6506 here.
07.25.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Applauds Passage of Bill Promoting Career and Technical Education Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement applauding the House passage of H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. “Career and technical education provides an excellent opportunity to promote advanced education that aligns with the needs of the changing workforce and addresses the growing skills gap. I am grateful for the opportunity to co-sponsor the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, and speak in support of this legislation as the Vice-Chair of the House Education and Workforce Committee.”
07.24.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Supports Repealing the Medical Device Tax Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement of support after the House passed H.R. 184, the Protect Medical Innovation Act. This legislation will repeal the medical device excise tax that was imposed by Obamacare. “I am grateful for the opportunity to be an original cosponsor of the Protect Medical Innovation Act. Obamacare’s burdensome tax on medical devices has stifled medical advancements and destroyed jobs. Millions of Americans rely on pacemakers, artificial joints, CAT scan machines, and more for their medical care and quality of life. More taxes are not the answer to affordable healthcare options for American families.”
07.18.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Supports US Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agents Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement in support of H. Res. 990, which supports the officers and personnel who carry out the important mission of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): “Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents keep American communities and families safe. They defend against gang violence, drug trafficking, terrorism, and other dangerous criminals. It is their duty to faithfully execute the laws as they are written, and they put their lives on the line every day to fulfill that mission.”
07.09.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Applauds Nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court South Carolina- Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement applauding President Donald Trump's nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court: “The nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh, a highly qualified and highly respected judge, is a home run. He has a distinguished record of being fair, impartial, and faithful to the Constitution. I hope that members of the Senate will swiftly confirm him."
06.28.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Introduces the Mitigating Attacks on Diplomats Act Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 6262, the Mitigating Attacks on Diplomats Act, which requires a report on the efforts and options to mitigate the acoustic attacks on Foreign Service officers and their families. “We must take a comprehensive approach to identify methods that protect against and counter acoustic attacks and similar non-traditional assaults against our Foreign Service officers, their families, and our embassy structures. I am grateful that the State Department has taken the acoustic attacks in Cuba and China seriously." You can find the text of H.R. 6262 here. Earlier this month, Congressman Joe Wilson sent a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo requesting additional information regarding the strange and unexplained symptoms suffered by U.S. diplomats working in China and Cuba. You can find that letter here.
06.28.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds House Passage of DOD Appropriations Bill Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement applauding the House passage of the fiscal year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill: “The Defense Appropriations Bill that passed the House today is critical for continuing the process of rebuilding our military that started when President Donald Trump took office. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, I am grateful that this legislation increases funding for military readiness programs—specifically investing in maintenance, training, and base operations.”
06.27.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Appointed to NDAA Conference Committee Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan appointed him to the conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019. “As the father of four sons who have served in the military overseas, I am extraordinarily grateful for this opportunity to support our troops, military families, and veterans. As a member of the National Defense Authorization Act conference committee, I will work to ensure our national security, military strength, and defense capabilities remain a top priority. I look forward to advancing this critical legislation and as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, I am committed to working with the entire conference committee to advance this bipartisan legislation.” Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Mac Thornberry, made the following statement praising Congressman Wilson’s appointment: “As a veteran and proud father of four sons who have served in the military, Congressman Joe Wilson is a consistent, strong advocate for our armed forces. As the current Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, and past Chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, his voice will be critical during the upcoming conference proceedings,” Thornberry said. Conferees, appointed by the Speaker of the House and approved by the full House, work together to resolve differences between House and Senate-passed versions of a bill that funds the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces of the United States. Congressman Wilson is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee. Additional information regarding Congressman Wilson’s appointment is available here.
06.20.2018	IN CASE YOU MISSED IT “We cannot let our commitment to South Korea waver, especially given our shared sacrifices and mutually beneficial relationship.” Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) wrote an op-ed on the future of U.S.-North Korea relations in the aftermath of the Singapore Summit. Highlights “We cannot let our commitment to South Korea waver, especially given our shared sacrifices and mutually beneficial relationship. History has shown that when our commitment to South Korea is lacking, North Korea will attack.” “If the U.S. and North Korea agree on concrete actions towards denuclearization, it is imperative that Pyongyang commits to allowing U.S. and international inspectors access to a broad range of sites within short-notice to ensure the safety of South Korean, Japanese, and American families.” “Short-notice inspections and wide access are essential to ensuring North Korea cannot hide a uranium enrichment site, which can be easily disguised and requires only a small amount of energy to operate.” “The U.S. alliances with Japan and South Korea form the fundamental bulwark of democracy, security, and freedom in East Asia. Maintaining and building upon these alliances ensures President Donald Trump’s maximum pressure campaign towards North Korea will continue to be successful, and we will be able to build on the positive results of the Singapore Summit.” Read more here: https://townhall.com/capitol-voices/congressmanjoewilson/2018/06/20/north-korea-n2492363
06.20.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Introduces House Resolution Regarding Turkey's Purchase of Russia’s S-400 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after introducing H. Res. 951, regarding Turkey’s anticipated purchase of Russian S-400 surface-to-air missile batteries: “Turkey is a valued NATO ally, but its plan to purchase Russian missile batteries is a concern. I hope Turkey will realign its defense procurement to comply with NATO standards." The S-400 is a Russian-based mobile surface-to-air missile system that can target aircraft and incoming missiles. The S-400 cannot be integrated with other NATO members’ systems, and this lack of integration could create aerial vulnerabilities in NATO’s defenses. You can find the text of H. Res. 951 here.
06.19.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Supports Decision to Withdraw from UNHRC Washington, D.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and UN Ambassador Nikki Haley announced that the United States will withdraw from the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). “The United Nations Human Rights Council consistently wastes U.S. tax dollars by targeting Israel, which is why earlier this year I introduced House Resolution 728 condemning this discriminatory behavior. Israel is America’s most valued ally in the region, and we must stand up for our friends when they are being treated unfairly. I am hopeful that this courageous decision by Ambassador Nikki Haley, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and President Donald Trump will send a clear message that America will not tolerate the improper targeting of Israel.” Between 2006 and 2014, the UNHRC spent a third of its special sessions on condemning Israel, while not dedicating a single session on China or Russia. Israel is also the only country in the world to receive a permanent agenda item at the UNHRC, #7. Even the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed his “disappointment” with the UN Human Rights Council singling out Israel, given the multitude of other human rights violations occurring around the world.
06.19.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds Department of Labor's Decision on Association Health Plans Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement in support of the Department of Labor’s finalized rule that enables more employers to form Association Health Plans (AHPs). “I applaud the decision by the Department of Labor, led by Secretary Alex Acosta, and President Donald Trump to give small businesses more affordable healthcare choices. I am grateful for today's decision that expands access to quality, low-cost coverage while maintaining key consumer protections.” As a result of this rule change, employers will be able to form AHPs by city, county, state, or multi-state metropolitan areas. Employers may continue to form nationwide AHPs for specific industries. AHPs cannot deny coverage or charge higher premiums to people with a pre-existing health condition or cancel coverage because an employee becomes ill.
06.12.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on U.S.-North Korea Summit West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after the historic summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. “While this summit is only the first step in a long and arduous process towards complete denuclearization, we as Americans can be proud of President Donald Trump for doing the right thing for American families, the Korean Peninsula, and the world. I am hopeful, as one of only two Members of Congress who have visited Pyongyang, that Kim Jong-un and his diplomats will follow through on their commitments, but until then we must maintain tough sanctions against North Korea and encourage the international community to do the same.”
06.08.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Requests Information Regarding Diplomats’ Safety Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after requesting additional information from Secretary of State Mike Pompeo regarding the strange and unexplained symptoms suffered by U.S. diplomats working in China and Cuba. “I recognize that there are many potential technical causes behind these egregious attacks, which could include direct energy or frequency attacks, also characterized as ‘sonic’ attacks.” Rep. Wilson explained. “I am grateful for the proactive measures the State Department has taken to deal with this situation as it develops.” Congressman Wilson requested the following: A report from the State Department that includes the current and planned efforts to address the attacks A report on the current physical protection practices applied towards U.S. embassies, consulates, and embassy residences A discussion on how Congress could provide additional support for a solution to ensure the safety of U.S. diplomats abroad The full text of Congressman Wilson’s letter can be found here.
06.07.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on Federal Court's MOX Decision Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding the federal court’s decision this evening to prevent the Department of Energy from terminating the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX). “I am grateful for the hard work of Attorney General Alan Wilson whose swift action in federal court has helped prevent the imminent termination of the MOX facility. South Carolinians deserve better than being a de-facto repository for weapons-grade plutonium. The decision today is a step forward in ensuring the Department of Energy is held accountable to the people of our state.”
06.06.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Selected to Lead RSC Foreign Affairs and National Security Task Force WASHINGTON – Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Mark Walker (NC-6) announced this afternoon that Representative Joe Wilson (SC-2) will lead the RSC’s Foreign Affairs and National Security Task Force for the 115th Congress. “As America faces more foreign threats than ever, Rep. Wilson is uniquely suited to chair our Foreign Affairs and National Security Task Force at the Republican Study Committee,” said Chairman Walker. “His record as an effective lawmaker will ensure that Congress implements conservative solutions to our most pressing issues.” “I am grateful for the opportunity to serve as the RSC’s Foreign Affairs and National Security Task Force Chair, and I thank Chairman Mark Walker for the opportunity,” said Rep. Joe Wilson. “With a background of working across the Middle East, Africa, the Korean Peninsula, Central and Eastern Europe, Central and South America, the European Union, Central Asia, South Asia, and Southeast Asia, I look forward to working with members of the RSC to find real solutions to security threats at home and abroad, with an extraordinary team assembled by President Donald Trump of Vice President Mike Pence, Chief of Staff John Kelly, Secretary Mike Pompeo, National Security Advisor John Bolton, and Ambassador Nikki Haley.” With a new Secretary of State and National Security Advisor, it is especially timely to restart the Republican Study Committee’s Foreign Affairs and National Security Task Force, which will be focused on informing Members of national security and foreign policy issues related to counter-terrorism, WMD proliferation, NATO, European security, the Korean peninsula, and other topics.
06.05.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Keynote Speech at Annual Tidewater Meeting Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) gave the keynote speech last night at the 50th annual gathering of Development Ministers hosted by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. This annual gathering is known as the “Tidewater” Meeting and was co-hosted by the U.S. Agency for International Development. Excerpts from Congressman Wilson’s speech below; “The USAID has been on the front lines, addressing conflict and post conflict settings by executing assistance programs that save lives and help rebuild war-torn nations. “While many Americans over-estimate how much is spent on foreign aid, it currently accounts for only one percent of America’s federal budget. Yet, America has remained the largest contributor to peace keeping efforts around the world. “American values of freedom, justice, and the support for other natural born rights endowed to us by our creator ensures that America will always value the sanctity of life. If we see a country’s people suffering unnecessarily, and we have the ability to help- we have a moral obligation to do so. “As President Ronald Reagan said, foreign aid is ‘an essential component to our defense efforts.’ If done right, foreign assistance is an indispensable step in alleviating human suffering abroad while also protecting the interests and the security of the United States and our allies. “As a senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and a member of over 40 international congressional caucuses, I have continuously promoted the positive benefits of spreading American influence through foreign aid and assistance, and I am hopeful that we can continue to use American’s economic and diplomatic strength for the good and betterment of the world.”
05.24.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds House Passage of FY19 NDAA Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, released the following statement after the House successfully passed the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This legislation funds our military and vital national security initiatives. “This year’s NDAA promotes current and future service members by strengthening military readiness. I am grateful that this bill provides for troops, veterans, and military families by prioritizing readiness, addressing aviation training and operations safety concerns, and increasing the size of our armed services. Today, with bipartisan support, we have prioritized our resources on promoting peace through strength. Thank you to Chairman Mac Thornberry, who worked tirelessly to get this legislation passed with strong support by Speaker Paul Ryan and Secretary of Defense James Mattis. “I am also grateful to see my amendment included in the NDAA that requires the Defense Secretary Mattis to issue a report describing the requirements for, and components of, a pilot program that will provide resiliency for our critical national security infrastructure by contracting with a commercial entity to site, construct, and operate at least one micro-reactor.” You can find the text of this amendment here. Congressman Joe Wilson’s one minute House floor speech on FY19 NDAA is here.
05.22.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on the Right to Try Act Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding the House passage of the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018. “The Right to Try Act creates an alternative pathway for terminally ill patients to try prescription medicine that has not yet been approved by the FDA, but may provide relief for their aliments. This legislation is based upon informed consent to ensure that all patients are provided with the details necessary to make an educated decision. I am grateful for the opportunity to support legislation that may provide some families with access to life saving medicine.”
05.21.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Supports Prohibition on Transactions with Venezuela Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement of support after President Donald Trump’s announcement prohibiting additional transactions with Venezuela. “I am pleased that President Donald Trump has taken additional steps to further isolate the bad actors in Venezuela. We do not recognize Sunday's sham election, we believe the people of Venezuela deserve better than a corrupt dictator and we will stand with the people of Venezuela as they struggle for liberty.” In February, Congressman Joe Wilson sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting the Administration investigate teleSUR TV, which engages in political activity on behalf of the Venezuelan government. You can find that letter here.
05.18.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on Tragic Shooting at Santa Fe High School Washington, D.C.- Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after learning of the tragic shooting at Santa Fe High School. "Roxanne and I send our deepest sympathies to the families and friends of those injured and killed today at Santa Fe High School. May God give you comfort and peace. We are grateful for the first responders and law enforcement agents who saved everyone they could and apprehended the murderer."
05.15.2018	Chairman Joe Wilson Leads Trip to Jerusalem JERUSALEM — A congressional delegation, led by Readiness Subcommittee Chairman Joe Wilson (R-SC), visited Israel this week to meet with senior government officials and to participate in the opening of the new U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. The delegation discussed the critical U.S.-Israeli alliance, received an on-the-ground update on the security challenges in the region, and discussed ongoing security cooperation efforts between the two nations. The members also highlighted key elements of the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act, which is expected to be debated on the House floor in the coming weeks. The bill authorizes $500 million for the co-development of missile defense systems and co-production of Iron Dome, David’s Sling, and Arrow weapons systems in partnership with Israel. In addition to discussing ongoing security cooperation, on Monday the Members joined other senior U.S. and Israeli officials, as well as other dignitaries, for the formal opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. The delegation included: Chairman Joe Wilson (SC) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL) Rep. Dennis Ross (FL) Rep. Ron DeSantis (FL) Rep. George Holding (NC) Rep. Tom Rice (SC) Rep. Jody Hice (GA) Rep. Steve Knight (CA) Rep. Lee Zeldin (NY) Rep. Scott Taylor (VA)Meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Delegation meets with the Knesset in Jersusalem Members with U.S. Ambassador of Israel, David Friedman
05.14.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Attends U.S. Embassy Opening in Jerusalem Jerusalem, Israel – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after leading a congressional delegation to Jerusalem and attending the U.S. embassy opening this afternoon. “America’s bond with Israel is unique, and its strength is the foundation of American leadership in the Middle East. President Donald Trump kept his commitment to the American people by moving our embassy to Jerusalem, and clearly established that each country has an inherent right to choose its own capital. The people of Israel, especially Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, know they have a true ally in the White House, which protects American families.”
05.11.2018	ICYMI: FY19 NDAA Supports Israel Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, worked to ensure key components of FY19 National Defense Authorization Act supported our strongest ally in the Middle East, Israel. FY19 NDAA includes provisions that; • Supports President Donald Trump’s request for $500 million for co-development of missile defense systems with Israel and co-production of the Iron Dome, David’s Sling, and arrow weapons systems. • Establishes defense partnerships to counter Iran’s terrorist activity and provides for a robust military posture in the region. The FY19 NDAA also increases oversight of items essential to countering Iran, such as munitions stockpiles, Patriot missiles, and missile defense systems. • Increases pressure on terrorist groups in the region that threaten Israel and American families by continuing the security cooperation with the Iraqi government and extending the Syrian Trade and Equipment Authority to consolidate gains against ISIS. The FY19 NDAA also supports the Afghan military in their attempt to combat ISIS and the Taliban.
05.10.2018	Congressman Wilson Praises Committee Passage of FY19 NDAA Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee completed the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. This legislation funds our military and vital national security projects. “This year’s National Defense Authorization Act builds off the progress made in the past year and focuses on rebuilding our armed services, a priority of President Donald Trump and House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry, and provides our men and women in uniform the support necessary to succeed. “We have focused this year’s NDAA on decreasing the number of tragic training accidents, ensuring the United States is preparing for the re-emergence of global competitors, and curbing the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea. Today, with bipartisan support, the House Armed Services Committee showed that we have prioritized our resources on promoting peace through strength.” Highlights from the FY 2019 NDAA Wilson’s quotes in italics Readiness and Rebuilding our Military “This year’s NDAA increases funding for equipment maintenance, spare parts, facility sustainment, and training to ensure we rebuild the readiness of our armed forces, and provides adequate funding for Fort Jackson.” Fort Jackson, located in Congressman Wilson’s district, is the largest initial entry training facility for the US Army. Congressman Wilson also serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness where he oversees the committee’s readiness initiatives. “This years NDAA has also made critical changes to Navy vessel inspections, establishing that they will be conducted on a no notice basis to ensure that vessels are always fully operational. The House Armed Services Committee also supported a measure that limited the amount of time a military vessels can be forward deployed, which will provide additional opportunities for repairs and maintenance.” Condemns Russia’s Violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention “The use of chemical weapons is just the latest example of Russia’s attempts to undermine democratic institutions, and we stand together with our allies in stating unequivocally that this aggression cannot be tolerated. Russia’s actions are in clear violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and we must establish a sense of congress that these actions are unacceptable.” The United States ratified its prohibition of chemical weapons in April of 1997, something that the Russian Federal also agreed to in November of that same year. Helicopter Antisubmarine Warfare and Aircraft Health Monitoring “The current Antisubmarine Warfare sonobuoy receiver is heavy and limited to its specific mission of receiving and transmitting data for analysis through acoustic processors, but there are more advanced options available that will keep our men and women in uniform safer.” Congressman Wilson’s amendment recommends the Secretary of the Navy, or appropriate designee, provide a briefing to the House Armed Services Committee before the end of the fiscal year to discuss the challenges, operational details of the DDG-51 SWaP receiver, and integration onto the MH-60R platform. Report on Aviation Training and Operations Safety “For over a year, each of the services have experienced an increasing number of fatal aircraft incidents. The most concerning issue for me, as the Readiness Chairman, is that the majority of these aircraft incidents have occurred in training more so than while in a deployed environment. That is why I introduced this amendment to recommend that the Secretary of Defense undertake a comprehensive review of military aviation training, Operations and Maintenance, and adherence to safety procedures.” In 2017 alone, there were a total of 1,117 reported military aviation accidents across all services. Many of these events claimed the lives of our brave service men and women. Reports have stated that there are several reasons for these trends to increase, including operational availability, cannibalization rates, some general safety issues, or even unexplained physiological events.
05.10.2018	House Passes Legislation that Includes Rep. Joe Wilson’s Bill on Yucca Mountain Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after his legislation H.R. 433, the Sensible Nuclear Waste Disposition Act, was included in H.R. 3053, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act, that passed the House today. “The federal government has dedicated enormous resources to completing the nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain. In South Carolina, ratepayers have invested over $1.3 billion into Yucca over the last 30 years. Starting over with another project would cost billions of dollars and would take decades to complete. “My legislation that was included in today’s bill will prevent a new duplicative facility for defense waste from being planned, developed, or constructed until the Nuclear Regulatory Commission makes a decision regarding the license for Yucca Mountain. If we fail to complete the Yucca Mountain project, communities across the country, including the Aiken-Barnwell community in the Second District, will have to continue to bear the burden of storing nuclear waste that the federal government has promised to remove. “I am grateful that the House supported this measure overwhelmingly, and I hope the Senate will take up this legislation quickly.” ###
05.10.2018	South Carolina Congressional Delegation Statement on DOE Decision to Abandon MOX Program WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), and U.S. Representatives Joe Wilson (R-South Carolina) and Jeff Duncan (R-South Carolina) today issued a statement denouncing the Department of Energy’s (DOE) decision to abandon the MOX program. “We are extremely disappointed to hear the Department of Energy plans to abandon the MOX program. The federal government has spent billions of dollars constructing the MOX facility at Savannah River Site (SRS) to dispose of 34 metric tons of surplus weapons-grade plutonium. The facility is now more than halfway complete. “For years, DOE studied the best method to dispose of plutonium. After looking at over 40 options, the MOX process was chosen over other alternatives and was the method agreed to with the Russians in the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement. With DOE’s decision today, the MOX program – which is one of the most important non-proliferation programs in the history of the world – is being abandoned without any clear path forward. “DOE says it now wants to pursue ‘dilute and dispose’ but that plan was already considered and rejected. DOE plans to press ahead even though ‘dilute and dispose’ has not been fully vetted. This could lead to the permanent orphaning of at least 34 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium, enough for thousands of warheads. “And if that was not enough, DOE has done almost nothing to consult with New Mexico – the state which would receive this material – and the political leadership in New Mexico has already expressed great concern about this change in course. Finally, the legal challenges to move from MOX in South Carolina to ‘dilute and dispose’ in New Mexico will be enormous. By any fair assessment the viability and chance of success with dilute and dispose are, at best, questionable. “The Department of Energy’s reputation for the handling and oversight of large-scale projects like MOX were considered suspect. But given what can only be called a debacle, DOE is going to be challenged like never before. We plan to hold DOE accountable for this haphazard decision and will press for oversight to ensure taxpayers aren’t left holding the bag for DOE’s mistakes. “Finally, DOE has proposed reconfiguring the current MOX facility so that it can be used to produce plutonium pits. While we support the opportunity for any new mission at SRS, we are concerned DOE will encounter a skeptical Congress and American public on any proposal they put forward. “We will continue to work closely with Governor Henry McMaster to protect the interests of the local community, the state of South Carolina, and the American taxpayer.”
05.08.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Supports President Trump on Iran Deal Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement in support of President Donald Trump’s announcement that he is withdrawing the United States’ from the Iran nuclear deal. “I am grateful for the courageous leadership of President Donald Trump, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and National Security Advisor John Bolton for reversing the failed policies of the previous administration and withdrawing from the dangerous Iran nuclear deal.” “The Iranian dictatorship has been a longtime sponsor of Global Terrorism, providing an estimated $200 million a year to the murderous terrorist group Hizballah. Unfortunately, the Iran nuclear deal lifted American sanctions and increased Iran’s ability to fund terrorism abroad, and did nothing to stop Iran’s murderous behavior in the Middle East as it chants ‘Death to Israel, Death to America.’” “With today’s announcement, President Trump will be able to renegotiate from a position of strength and get a better deal that protects American families.”
05.08.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Supports Rescissions PackageCongressman Joe Wilson Supports Rescissions Package Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement in favor of the rescissions package sent to Congress today by President Donald Trump's administration. “I am grateful for the hard work of Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney for putting together a $15 billion rescissions package that reduces the deficit. This is the largest rescissions request by any administration and shows a commitment to limited government that President Donald Trump promised while campaigning, and I look forward to voting in favor of this measure in the House."
05.01.2018	ICYMI: Wilson: “Other Presidents Offer Aid...Like A Ransom” Highlights “Having Kim Jong-un and President Moon actually cross the border; I was there in August, when the thought of crossing the border was inconceivable.” “This is a huge tribute to President Donald Trump and his team, [including] Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Ambassador Nikki Haley, and National Security Advisor John Bolton. The President has the team in place to make a difference, to provide for denuclearization and Peace Through Strength.” “President Trump is totally different from the prior president, he is making a difference. He understands that you must be strong and that’s what he is doing; building up our military, providing missile defense systems, working with President Xi of China, Prime Minister Abe of Japan, and President Moon in Seoul.” “President Donald Trump has made such a positive impact, he is real. Sadly, we’ve had other presidents who simply offer aid, almost like a ransom… we were providing billions of dollars to a totalitarian despotic regime, under the hope that they would change. They did not change.” “Today, we have a strong President; Peace Through Strength!” Watch the full clip here: http://video.foxnews.com/v/5777436388001/?#sp=show-clips ###
04.26.2018	Readiness Subcommittee Chairman Joe Wilson Holds Markup for NDAA Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statements after the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, of which Congressman Wilson is the Chair, marked up proposals for the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. “Today’s markup in the House Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee represents a strong, bipartisan commitment to providing our troops, veterans, and military families with the resources they need to protect America and our allies, and builds on the progress to fulfill President Donald Trump's commitment to rebuild the military, led by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry.” “I am grateful for the opportunity to support this NDAA that increases funding for equipment maintenance, spare parts, facility sustainment, and training to ensure we rebuild the readiness of our armed forces, and provides adequate funding for Fort Jackson.” ###
04.25.2018	ICYMI: House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness Releases NDAA Markup Provisions Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, of which Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) is the Chairman, published their proposals for tomorrow’s subcommittee markup hearing. The Readiness Subcommittee's proposal: Rebuilds troop readiness and makes investments in equipment maintenance by: Recommending increased funding for equipment maintenance, spare parts, and training to rebuild readiness for ships, aircraft squadrons, and ground combat units; Recommending the Full Committee fund 20 Combat Training Center rotations across the Army—16 Active and 4 Army National Guard; Requiring the Navy’s Board of Inspection and Survey Inspections be conducted on a no-notice basis and make details of those inspections unclassified and available to the public; Requiring the Secretary of the Navy to provide a report on ways to optimize surface Navy vessel inspection and crew certifications to reduce redundancies and the burden on inspection visits that ships undergo; Limiting the amount of time a Navy vessel is forward deployed overseas to no more than 10 years; Ensuring the Navy retains sufficient ship repair capability and capacity in the Western Pacific by prohibiting the redevelopment of the Former Ship Repair Facility on Guam. Ensures infrastructure supports military readiness by: Recommending the Full Committee increase funds for facility sustainment above the fiscal year 2019 request; Establishing a new Defense Community Infrastructure Program which will provide for resilient facilities and utilities off-base that directly supporting our military installations; Authorizes the Secretary of the military departments to carry out military construction projects to enhance force protection and safety on military installations; Extends the Defense Laboratory Modernization Pilot Program until October 1, 2023, and clarifies that the authority can be used for architectural and engineering services in addition to construction of infrastructure projects. Improves oversight by: Requiring the Department of Defense to include cyber and space in its quarterly readiness report to better reflect the National Defense Strategy and to ensure a comprehensive look at readiness across every domain of warfare; Directing several assessments of the military departments’ plans to rebuild readiness, enhance exercises, and modernize training requirements. The Readiness Subcommittee markup will be live streamed on the House Armed Services Committee’s website starting at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
04.25.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson on Escort Committee for French President Macron Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional French Caucus, released the following statement after being asked to join Speaker Paul Ryan and other Congressional leaders on the escort committee in presenting President of France Emmanuel Macron to a Joint Session of Congress. “I am grateful, having French heritage, for the opportunity to escort French President Emmanuel Macron to the Joint Session of Congress. This honor is particularly special with France being our First Ally, as well as President Macron’s strong leadership for the French people in the Global War on Terrorism." “I also appreciate the jobs created by France businesses in South Carolina with Michelin’s largest world investment in Lexington,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
04.20.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on European Parliament Resolution Condemning Hamas Springdale, S.C – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on the European Union, released the following statement regarding the European Parliament’s recently passed resolution that condemns the terrorist group Hamas. “For too long, the terrorist organization Hamas has taken shelter and launched offensives against Israel from civilian areas, including hospitals and schools - knowingly and carelessly putting innocent lives at risk. They use innocent Palestinians as shields to continue perpetrating their murderous plots. I am grateful that the European Parliament passed a resolution that condemns the terrorist organization Hamas, and specifically their use of innocent humans as shields.” Background Last year, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06), joined by original co-sponsors Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-22), introduced the bipartisan Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, legislation that would sanction Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. H.R. 3542, the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, passed the House unanimously on February 14th, 2018.
04.20.2018	ICYMI: Congressman Joe Wilson Joins Colleagues in Letter to Ambassador Samuel Brownback on Religious Freedom Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) joined 19 of his colleagues in sending a letter to Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Samuel Brownback in regards to threats of religious freedom and the rise of extremism in Southeast Asia. This letter details how religious minorities are continuously discriminated against, with Human Rights Watch reporting 55 instances of Indonesians being targeted, including Christians, for blasphemy violations since the fall of 2016. In Malaysia, there have been 155 religious freedom violations in 2017 alone. These attitudes and instances provide the opportunity for Islamist parties to capitalize on the anti-minority sentiment and advocate for sharia law. This has had a direct correlation to increased terrorism activity in the region, with ISIS-inspired attacks occurring in Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines. These events show the susceptibility to extremism in the region and threaten the United States’ partnership with these countries. To protect American security, promote freedom abroad, and maintain strong geopolitical relationships in the region, we as a nation must address the changing cultural, religious, and civic trends of the region. Specific information requested from Ambassador Brownback include; What soft power tools can the U.S. use to stop these trends? What is the outlook for the region, and what are the United States’ contingencies in the event these religious freedom trends become worse? What do shifts from religious freedom mean for the United States’ relationship with partners like Indonesia and Malaysia? You can read the full letter here.
04.20.2018	Congressman Addison Graves Wilson Receives Foodservice Distribution Industry’s Thomas Jefferson Award Award recognizes commitment to policies that support business growth WASHINGTON, DC – The International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA) announced today that Congressman Wilson has been named a recipient of the 2018 Thomas Jefferson Award. The bi-annual award recognizes legislators whose voting record indicates strong support of policies that enable the U.S. foodservice distribution industry to create well-paying jobs, grow their businesses, and contribute to their local communities. With a combined annual sales volume of almost $300 billion, foodservice distributors play a crucial role in our nation’s infrastructure. This industry ensures a safe and efficient supply chain of food and products for more than one million restaurants and foodservice outlets in the U.S. every day. Whether its dinner at your favorite local restaurant or your children’s school lunch - the experience was made possible by a foodservice distributor. “The foodservice distribution industry plays a vital role in our economy and culture, providing pay and benefits well above the national average,” said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. “Congressman Wilson recognizes the important contributions of this industry and his continued support is to be commended.” The program was introduced in 1992 and was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his first inaugural address said, “A wise and frugal government … shall leave men … free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government.” About the International Foodservice Distributors Association The International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA) is the premier trade organization representing the foodservice distribution industry. With a combined annual sales volume of almost $300 billion, foodservice distributors play a crucial role in our nation’s infrastructure. This industry ensures a safe and efficient supply chain of food and products for more than one million restaurants and foodservice outlets in the U.S. every day. IFDA member companies operate more than 800 facilities in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and around the world.
04.17.2018	The Last Day of our 32-Year-Old Tax Code is TODAY Next year, when you file your taxes, 80% of households are expected to have to pay less! Some other benefits resulting from the #TaxCutsandJobsAct include; Helps small businesses by allowing them to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers. Nearly doubling the standard deduction to protect more of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,500 and $13,000 under current law to $12,000 and $24,000 for individuals and married couples, respectively. Increases the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. Taxpayers can get help filing their tax return for free through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance and Tax Counseling for the Elderly programs. To find the site nearest you, you can call 800-906-9887 or visit the https://www.irs.gov/. There is also a free IRS filing programs that provides taxpayers with multiple brand-name tax preparation products at no cost.
04.17.2018	ICYMI: Congressman Joe Wilson Leads Holocaust “Days of Remembrance” on House Floor Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) led a special order last night on the House floor in honor of the Days of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust. Congressman Wilson was joined by Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-NY) and Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) (Watch the full video) Highlights “A recent study found that knowledge of the atrocities that occurred during the Holocaust is waning, as we get further and further removed from the horrible events. The phrase “we remember” is used to emphasize the importance of remembering exactly what happened, to ensure it never happens again. It is in this context that I stand today to not only honor all of those killed at the hands of the Nazis during the Holocaust, as well as those who survived, but to continue to speak the truth about what happened, in hope that it never fades from our collective memories, to be never repeated.” “I would like to recognize a few Holocaust survivors in South Carolina- may we never forget their pain and suffering, as well as that of their family and friends. Bern Stern…Bert Gosschalk…Bluma Goldberg… Renee Kolender…Pincus Kolender…Rudy Herz…Trude Heller…Francine Taylor… Leo Diamanstein.” “I am grateful for this opportunity to highlight these people, and this important issue during these ‘Days of Remembrance,’ and I am hopeful that we will make preserving this history and telling these stories a priority.” “We will never forget the lessons we learned from this horrific moment in history; we must protect natural God-given rights and do everything in our power to prevent these types of crimes against humanity.”
04.13.2018	Springdale, S.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding the U.S. action tonight in Syria. “Tonight, the United States stood with our allies Great Britain and France to take decisive action against a murderous Syrian regime. I am grateful for the leadership of President Donald Trump and Secretary of Defense James Mattis in taking the use of chemical weapons seriously and responding appropriately, as well as the bravery of the members of our armed services who carried out this mission.”
04.12.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Applauds the Inclusion of the S.C. Peanut Parity Act in the Farm Bill Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after his legislation, the Peanut Parity Act, was included in the recently released Farm Bill. “I am grateful that the South Carolina Peanut Parity Act of 2017 was included in the 2018 Farm Bill. South Carolina is the fourth largest peanut producing state and we will soon have a place on the Peanut Standards Board. Our farmers deserve a voice and when the Farm Bill becomes law, they will officially have a seat at the table.” Background In the 2002 Farm Bill, the U.S. Department of Agriculture established the Peanut Standards Board, a board that advises the Secretary of Agriculture and Department on peanut quality and handling standards. The board consists of 18 members who represent three regions: the Southeast (Alabama, Florida, and Georgia), the Southwest (New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas), and Virginia/North Carolina. Each region is represented with three producer seats and three industry representative seats, and members serve staggered three year terms. By law, members of the Peanut Standards Board must be from a state in one of the three designated regions. South Carolina farmers produce over eight percent of the nation’s peanuts. As a state, South Carolina is the fourth largest peanut producing state.
04.12.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Commemorates Yom HaShoah Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement to commemorate Yom HaShoah, also known as the Holocaust Remembrance Day. “Today and every day, we remember the horrific atrocity of the Holocaust and vow as a nation- never again. We remember the six million innocent men, women, and children who lost their lives, as well as all of the survivors, and we continue to pray for their family and friends.”
04.11.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Introduces Resolution Commemorating Israel's 70th Anniversary Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statements after introducing H. Res. 815, which commemorates the upcoming 70th anniversary of the foundation of the State of Israel and President Donald Trump’s decision to move the United States Embassy to Jerusalem. “Over the past 70 years, the Israeli people have demonstrated resiliency of the human spirit while overcoming tremendous obstacles. Every day, Israelis endure the threat of terrorism in their lives, but they remain optimistic about the future of their country. As Americans face a similar enemy in the Global War on Terrorism, we must continue to strengthen our relationship with this great nation.” “As Israelis prepare to celebrate the 70th anniversary of their country’s independence, I would like to congratulate them on another remarkable year of freedom.” The resolution specifically: (1) Commends the State of Israel for maintaining friendly and meaningful relations with the United States over the past 70 years; (2) Recognizes Israel as a strong and stable democracy in the region; (3) Salutes the deep security relationship between the United States and Israel; (4) Encourages other countries with diplomatic relations with Israel to move their embassies to Jerusalem; and (5) Commends the Trump Administration for its December 6, 2017, proclamation recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and relocating the United States embassy to Jerusalem on the anniversary of Israeli Independence. You can find the House Resolution here.
04.11.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement On Speaker Paul Ryan's Retirement Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement regarding Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement that he will not run for re-election. “I am grateful to have served with Speaker Paul D. Ryan, a proven conservative visionary. Throughout my time in Congress, I can personally attest to his unwavering commitment to conservative values and strength of service to the First District of Wisconsin and every corner of our nation. I admire Speaker Ryan’s leadership as we worked to pass tax cuts for American families, rebuild our military for peace through strength, and create conservative change for the American people by limiting government and expanding freedom.” “I would like to thank Speaker Paul Ryan and his wife Janna for their service to our country. It is an honor to know him and I appreciate his commitment to serve out the rest of his term as Speaker of the House of Representatives. He will be missed, as he has made a positive difference for American families.”
04.09.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Responds to Chemical Weapons Attack in Syria West Columbia, S.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding the chemical weapons attack in Syria this weekend. "This targeting of innocent civilians is unacceptable, and the use of chemical weapons by Syria’s authoritarian dictator is a clear violation of international law and human rights. This worsening crisis puts even more innocent lives at risk as the fighting moves closer to heavily populated areas. I have faith in the leadership of President Donald Trump and United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley, who I am grateful has joined other UN Security Council members in calling for an emergency meeting regarding this weekend’s barbaric attack outside of Damascus."
04.03.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Holds Apprenticeship Forum with Leaders in Technical Education and Manufacturing West Columbia, S.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) held an apprenticeship forum with experts from technical education and from manufacturing discussing ways to address the growing skills gap. Career and technical education provides an excellent opportunity for advanced education that aligns with the needs of South Carolina’s workforce. “I am grateful that South Carolina has been especially successful in using career and technical educational programs to partner with businesses and create jobs,” said Congressman Wilson. Quality STEM education and training is vital to competing for high-skilled, in-demand jobs in the workplace, which is why apprenticeship programs are key to building a thriving workforce in South Carolina. During the panel, Congressman Joe Wilson discussed with the career and technical education (CTE) panelists the need for the Senate to pass H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. This bill provides more funding for CTE programs and provides increased flexibility for programs to meet labor demands in their own communities. (Rep. Joe Wilson leads a discussion on technical education with expert panelists Dr. Tim Hardee- President of the SC Technical College Systems, Mike Brenan- Co-Chair of TransformSC and BB&T State President, and Tiffany Jaspers; Business & Economic Development Manager for the South Carolina Department of Employment and Workforce) During the forum, manufacturers discussed the need for mentorship programs that provide students with on-the-job training, an income, and a chance for certification at the end of the program. They also discussed the potential of providing tuition assistance for associate degrees to ensure that manufacturers maintain a skilled workforce. (Rep. Joe Wilson leads a discussion with experts in manufacturing including Ryan Childers representing BMW, Kevin Whitt- Site Training Manager at the Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, and Arjonetta Gaillard, Human Resource Manager for MTU) “Whether I am visiting one of the remarkable schools in the Second District’s technical education system, including the technical colleges in Aiken, Midlands, and Orangeburg-Calhoun, or a local manufacturing facility, the message is the same—the job market is changing rapidly and it is our duty to prepare accordingly," explained Congressman Wilson. “We must continue to advance programs that support jobs for meaningful lives.”
04.02.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson Urges Senate to pass the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson condemns the violence in Gaza this weekend and calls on the Senate to pass H.R. 3542, the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act. “This weekend, Hamas purposefully used a civilian protest to stir up violence and put innocent lives at risk. I urge the Senate to pass the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, which condemns these actions and encourages the United Nations Security Council to impose multilateral sanctions against Hamas. We cannot allow this terrorist organization to continue to use innocent lives as shields to protect their terrorist plots.” In the protests over the weekend, 40,000 Palestinians gathered and an estimated 10 of the 18 people killed during the altercation have been identified as members of the terrorist group Hamas.
03.28.2018	IN CASE YOU MISSED IT “This would be a good match of the man and the moment.” Rep. Joe Wilson, best remembered outside Washington as the guy who shouted “You lie” at President Barack Obama, is exploring a bid to be the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. It would be a chance for the South Carolina Republican to push a legislative agenda he’s been cultivating for years as a foreign policy wonk and prolific world traveler. Some members on the House Republican Steering Committee — a mix of leadership and rank-and-file lawmakers who recommend committee chairmanships — are urging Wilson to pursue the Foreign Affairs gavel after current Chairman Ed Royce, R-Calif., retires. “He is within a handful of members of the House of Representatives that the Pentagon will know and people throughout the world will know,” said Graham, whose portfolio also includes foreign policy and military affairs. “This would be a good match of the man and the moment.” Democrats also aren’t balking at the concept of the fifth most senior committee member climbing up the ranks. Rep. Gerry Connolly of Virginia, a senior committee Democrat who only became acquainted with Wilson after the 2009 incident, called Wilson “a gentleman” and “a very civil and considerate colleague.” In political circles, Wilson is not known as a bomb thrower, but as courtly, enthusiastic, eccentric and above all likable. He’s famous for giving out campaign keychains, showing off fading family photos covered in protective plastic and inviting members to meet with any foreign dignitary he happens to be hosting at any given time. http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/congress/article207113714.html
03.27.2018	ICYMI: Music Legend Pat Boone Sings Praises of Joe Wilson (Alexandria, VA) – Legendary entertainer Pat Boone, National Spokesman for the 60 Plus Association, announced today that South Carolina Representative Joe Wilson has earned the Association’s Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award. In a statement released by 60 Plus, Boone remarked, “I’m still singing at concerts, but today I’m singing the praises of Rep. Joe Wilson. Seniors can depend on Joe Wilson.” Boone and his wife, Shirley, reside in Beverly Hills, California. Boone is familiar to audiences as a star of music, film and television. Boone has had 38 top-ten hits since his recording career began in the 1950s, and, according to Billboard magazine, holds the record for the most consecutive weeks (220) on the charts by any performer. On behalf of the American Association of Senior Citizens, 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin was on hand at an event in the Nation’s Capital to present Representative Joe Wilson with the award. “The Guardian Award is given to members in appreciation of their tireless efforts on behalf of senior citizens, as so many of our elderly struggle on a fixed income. Seniors have to live within their means and so should our government. Rep. Wilson will fight to end the 'Death Tax,' which negatively impacts small businesses, farmers and ranchers throughout the Nation We also particularly appreciate the efforts by Rep. Wilson to assure the financial stability of Social Security and Medicare. “That’s why Representative Wilson has earned the Association’s highest award, and it’s my honor to personally present it,” Martin emphasized. -30- The 60 Plus Association is a 26-year-old nonpartisan organization working for death tax repeal, saving Social Security and Medicare, affordable prescription drugs, lowering energy costs and other issues featuring a less government, less taxes approach as well as a strict adherence to the Constitution. 60 Plus calls on support from over 7 million activists. 60 Plus has been called, “an increasingly influential senior citizen’s group,” and recognized as the alternative to the AARP.
03.23.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) Applauds the Choice of John Bolton as the next National Security Advisor West Columbia, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding John Bolton being named the next National Security Advisor. “American families are much safer thanks to the leadership of General H.R. McMaster, and I am grateful for his 30 years of service and sacrifice for our nation. We owe the entire McMaster family a debt of gratitude.” “I am also very excited to see that my longtime friend John Bolton will be our next National Security Advisor. We have worked together for many years. He is uniquely qualified to meet the demands of the job, and he is a perfect fit for President Donald Trump’s national security team that promotes Peace Through Strength.”
03.22.2018	Congressman Wilson and Congressman Norcross Introduce House Resolution to Promote Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statements regarding H.Res. 795, a resolution he introduced with Congressman Donald Norcross (D-NJ) to recognize the role of the United State in the evolving energy landscape of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. “With the demand for natural gas continuing to outpace production, the energy landscape in the Middle East is changing rapidly. In an effort to diversify their energy portfolios, member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have expressed interest in peaceful civilian nuclear cooperation. Saudi Arabia alone plans to construct 16 nuclear power reactors by 2032.” “For years, Russia and China have actively marketed their respective technologies and threaten to dominate the emerging nuclear power market in the GCC. This will allow them to influence regional nuclear policy for decades to come. These nuclear plants will be built, the only question remaining is who will build them. “H. Res. 795 reaffirms that the United States has the best safety, security, and nonproliferation standards in the world – and that we need to ensure our industry has every opportunity to compete in this new market. “The pursuit of peaceful nuclear cooperation agreements not only strengthens our diplomatic efforts with countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council, but also supports carbon-free, clean and sustainable energy across the globe,” said Congressman Donald Norcross. “This Resolution underlines the “123” non-proliferation agreements as the gold standard for civilian nuclear energy infrastructure.” You can find the text of H. Res. 795 here.
03.21.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) Introduce the Foreign Influence Transparency Act Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) introduced the Foreign Influence Transparency Act of 2018, which requires organizations, such as the Confucius Institute, to register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) if they promote the political agenda of a foreign country’s government. “The goal of this legislation is to increase transparency between foreign governments, universities, and communities,” Congressman Wilson said. “The American people have the right to know if they are consuming propaganda that is being produced by a foreign government.” Senator Marco Rubio, who introduced companion legislation in the Senate today, released the following statement. “This legislation aims to bring greater transparency to the activities of foreign governments operating in the United States. It will strengthen foreign funding disclosure requirements for colleges and universities and close loopholes in current law so that entities like Confucius Institutes, operating in more than 100 American higher education institutions including several in Florida, would be required to register with the Department of Justice as foreign agents of the Chinese government.” Currently, the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 contains a technicality that allows foreign governments or organizations to push their political agenda under the facade of an “academic or scholastic pursuit.” The Foreign Influence Transparency Act will clarify the intent of FARA and require disclaimers on all propaganda funded by foreign governments to promote their political agenda. This legislation also amends the Higher Education Act to require universities to disclose donations, contracts, or the fair market value of in-kind gifts, from any foreign source if the amount is $50,000 or greater. This information would be reported to the Secretary of Education, along with the content of contracts between universities and foreign entities. “It is critical that the language in the Foreign Agents Registration Act matches its intent, which is to disclose all persons or institutions acting on behalf of foreign governments in a political manner,” Congressman Wilson explained. “With the enactment of the Foreign Influence Transparency Act, organizations like the Confucius Institute will no longer be able to use the lack of clarity in FARA to disseminate propaganda.” Confucius Institutes are organizations affiliated with the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, and currently operates in conjunction with 103 American universities. In 2009, Li Changchun, then head of propaganda for the Chinese Communist Party and member of the party’s Politburo Standing Committee, called Confucius Institutes “an important part of China’s overseas propaganda set-up.” You can find the text of the House version of the Foreign Influence Transparency Act, H.R. 5336, here.
03.16.2018	ICYMI: Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) Co-Sponsors Three Foreign Affairs Bills This Week Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) co-sponsored three foreign affairs bills this week. He co-sponsored H.R. 5132, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps Economic Exclusion Act, H.R. 5141, the United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2018, and H. Res.763, which calls upon the leadership of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to dismantle their labor camp system. H.R. 5132 – This legislation strengthens the ban in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps Economic Exclusion Act to include people who are agents of or affiliated with the IRGC, or those who support them financially. H.R. 5132 also requires an annual report be submitted to Congress with information regarding people who participate in the Tehran Stock Exchange, those who have more than $100 million worth of business in Iran, and financial institutions with more than $10 million. H. R. 5141 – The relationship between the United States and Israel is reaffirmed in this legislation, and it also upholds the Memorandum of Understanding agreement signed between the two countries in September of 2016. The Memorandum of Understanding agreement pledged the largest military assistance in U.S. history, including $33 billion in Foreign Military Financing, and specifically allocating $5 billion over 10 years for missile defense assistance. Israel is America’s most valued ally in the region, and we must continue to stand up for our friends when they are being threatened. (Hwasong Concentration Camp in North Korea in 2004) H. Res.763 – In North Korea, from 1981 to 2013 an estimated 400,000 out of 500,000 people imprisoned in labor camps were killed there. In these camps, Christians are heavily persecuted, women are raped and then forced to have abortions by horrific means, and deliberate starvation and malnutrition are common. This Resolution demands North Korea dismantles their inhumane labor camp systems.
03.15.2018	LAWMAKERS INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN RESOLUTION CONDEMNING RUSSIAN CHEMICAL WEAPON ATTACK Resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that Russian aggression across all domains cannot be tolerated WASHINGTON, D.C. — A bipartisan group of six Representatives introduced a resolution today expressing solidarity with the victims of the Russian chemical weapons attack in the United Kingdom and strong support for measures to counter Russian aggression. Representatives Jim Langevin (D-RI), George Holding (R-NC), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Tom Cole (R-OK), Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) offered the resolution the day after UK Prime Minister Teresa May announced measures, including the expulsion of 23 Russian intelligence agents, in response to the attempted assassination of former Russian military intelligence officer Sergei Skripal. “This attack is a brazen violation of the sovereignty of the United Kingdom and of the rules-based international order,” the Representatives said in a joint statement. “The use of a chemical weapon is just the latest example of Russia’s attempts to undermine democratic institutions, and we stand together with our allies in stating unequivocally that this aggression cannot be tolerated.” Mr. Skripal, his daughter Yulia, and a first responder, Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, remain hospitalized after the March 4th attack. Analysis of the poison used has identified it as a bespoke chemical agent developed in the Soviet Union. Russia has consistently shown contempt for the gravity of the use of a chemical weapon banned even in wartime for an attack on foreign soil and has refused to provide any explanation for the incident. The resolution reaffirms the United States’ firm commitment to its ally, the United Kingdom, and its NATO partners and supports additional measures taken in response to Russia’s violation of international security and non-proliferation agreements. Full text of the resolution can be found here.
03.15.2018	House Foreign Affairs Committee Passes Legislation During Markup Hearing Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed legislation out of committee during today’s markup hearing. “As a senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I am grateful that the committee passed H.R. 4681, the No Assistance for Assad Act. This legislation requires that U.S. assistance in Syria go towards territories that are not controlled by Bashar al-Assad and his rogue regime unless fundamental changes occur. The No Assistance for Assad Act highlights Assad’s crimes against the Syrian people, while protecting American resources from abuse.” Three other pieces of legislation were passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee today. H. Res. 644, which strongly condemns slave auctions of refugees and migrants in Libya. H. R. 4744, the Iran Human Rights and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act, imposes additional sanctions on the Government of Iran for serious human rights abuses. H. Con. Res. 111 supports the United Bid Committee’s efforts to bring the 2026 Federation Internationale de Football Association World Cup to Canada, Mexico and the United States.
03.14.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on the STOP School Violence Act Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding the House passage of H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act. “The STOP School Violence Act provides critical funding for training law enforcement officers, school personnel, and students on how to respond quickly to warning signs of violence. Congress must do everything in our power to ensure students are provided a safe environment to learn and grow, and funding for these programs are crucial components to improving school safety.” H.R. 4909 also includes funding to improve school security, and to create threat assessment and crisis intervention teams at schools.
03.13.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson's Statement Regarding Mike Pompeo being Announced as the new Secretary of State Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement regarding the announcement that Mike Pompeo will be the new Secretary of State. “I am grateful for the leadership and service of Rex Tillerson, and I know that Mike Pompeo will also represent America with incredible courage and steadfast support for American values.”
03.08.2018	The IRS has Announced Updated Withholding Tables Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after the IRS published their updated withholding tables for 2018. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has increased jobs and wages, and allowed businesses the opportunity to provide bonuses to millions of Americans. Now that the IRS has updated their withholding tables for 2018, Americans can see firsthand just how much of their own money they will be able to keep thanks to the GOP tax cuts. With the child tax credit increasing to $2,000 per child, and the standard deduction doubling to $12,000- which nearly 70% of tax filers use- I am grateful that families all across the Second Congressional District are seeing the benefits of this legislation.” You can find the updated withholding tables on the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov/ The IRS also introduced a withholding calculator that will allow you to calculate your estimated tax liability for 2018. You can find that calculator here: https://apps.irs.gov/app/withholdingcalculator/
03.08.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson’s Statement on North Korea Announcement West Columbia, S.C. - Rep. Joe Wilson release the following statement after tonight’s announcement regarding North Korea. “Tonight’s monumental announcement of North Korea’s willingness to discuss a diplomatic solution proves that President Donald Trump has used an effective foreign policy of Maximum Pressure and Peace Through Strength, the tradition of Ronald Reagan.”
03.06.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson's Statement on Potential North Korea Negotiations Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement in response to South Korea’s announcement that North Korea is willing to discuss denuclearization with the United States. “Today’s announcement that North Korea is finally willing to negotiate would not be possible without the strong leadership of President Donald Trump and his Administration, with the Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.” “I have said previously that the regime in North Korea will only respond to strength, and I believe that without the economic sanctions package passed by Congress and signed into law President Trump, these negotiations would not be in consideration. This is what a successful foreign policy of peace through strength looks like and I am hopeful these negotiations will take place soon.” In today’s announcement, North Korea indicated they would not carry out nuclear or missile tests while talks with the international community are in progress. Congressman Joe Wilson is one of only two Members of Congress who have been to North Korea, the other is Ranking Member Eliot Engel.
03.05.2018	Special Order: Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017 By. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) March 5th, 2018 In 2002, after extensive research by the Department of Energy (DOE), scientists concluded that Yucca Mountain met all the requirements to act as a repository for high level radioactive waste. After which, the DOE applied for the license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to begin construction of the Yucca Mountain facility. Unfortunately, due to political brinksmanship, those plans have stalled indefinitely, despite the fact that ratepayers have contributed nearly $30 Billion to the nuclear waste fund, which is specifically designated to be used for Yucca Mountain. The federal government and taxpayers have dedicated enormous resources to completing the nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain. However, the Obama Administration did everything in its power to stall the completion of the facility, holding up construction under political red tape— even though the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s own safety evaluation found it would not be a threat to the local population of Nevada, and it would benefit all of America. Thankfully, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017 will finally remove unnecessary burdens to make much needed improvements to our national nuclear waste strategy. This legislation is especially important to the residents of South Carolina. South Carolina ratepayers have invested over $1.3 billion into Yucca over the last 30 years—that’s in addition to the billions of dollars collected from ratepayers across the country. During this time, states like South Carolina have remained de facto repositories for nuclear waste. The federal government should finish what they started and complete the Yucca Mountain license application. Currently, SNF is stored in 121 different neighborhoods, across 39 states- all waiting to be moved to a permanent location. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act will address the concerns of communities across the country, in a cost-effective manner, and passed the Energy and Commerce Committee with bi-partisan support, 49 members voting in favor and only 4 against. I am grateful for the opportunity to support this legislation, and am hopeful that it will provide much needed clarification on the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. I am grateful that text from my bill, the Sensible Nuclear Waste Disposition Act was included in this bill and thank Chairman John Shimkus for his leadership.
03.01.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Co-Sponsors Bill to Sanction Iranian Proxy Terrorist Groups Washington, D.C. – Representative Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after signing on as a co-sponsor to H.R. 4238, the Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2017. “This legislation applies tough sanctions on two specific Iran proxy groups, As-Saib Ahl Al-Haq (AAH) and Harakat Hizballah Al-Nujaba. These terrorist organizations have played a key role in propping up the brutal dictatorship of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, which has resulted in the continuation of a civil war where the government uses chemical weapons against their own innocent civilians.” AAH conducted numerous attacks against the United States and coalition forces, resulting in the deaths of American servicemen, in Iraq between its inception in 2006 and the U.S. withdrawal in December 2011. AAH and Nujaba deploy forces to Syria to fight on behalf of the Bashar al-Assad regime, including participating in the 2016 siege of Aleppo. “Sanctions are an effective tool in a foreign policy of peace through strength. We must never allow murderous groups like AAH and Nujaba to wreak havoc without a strong response from the United States. I am grateful for President Donald Trump’s leadership in consistently supporting sanctions against rogue regimes.” H.R. 4238 also instructs Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to establish, maintain and publish a list of groups, militias, or other proxy forces that are working with or for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. If this legislation passes, those names will be published on the Department of State’s Annual Country Reports on Terrorism. This legislation builds off of H.R. 3364, the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, which passed the House and the Senate, and President Trump signed into law last year. H.R. 3364 imposed sanctions against Iran’s ballistic missile or weapons of mass destruction programs, the sale or transfer to Iran of military equipment, and Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and affiliated foreign persons. “With the Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2017, we will provide clarification on what constitutes the Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard to ensure that every person who is committing atrocities in the name of Iran will suffer the consequences.”
02.27.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson's Office Accepting 2018 Congressional Art Competition Submissions Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announces the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. “I am honored to announce that my office is now accepting submissions for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. For the past 36 years, this competition has inspired and encouraged young artists,” Rep. Joe Wilson said. Each year, members of the U.S. House of Representatives participate in a nation-wide high school arts competition sponsored by the Congressional Institute. “I know how much talent there is in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, and I hope every high school student who is interested participates. I look forward to seeing the entries.” This competition is open to all high school students, and one winner will be selected to represent the Second District. The winning artwork will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol with art from all participating districts around the country. Entries for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition are due to Congressman Wilson’s district offices in the Midlands or Aiken-Barnwell by close of business on April 30, 2018. Criteria for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition is available online at www.joewilson.house.gov/art-competition. Questions? Please contact Skyler Benson in the Midlands office at (803) 939-0041 Representative Joe Wilson is a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and is a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus.
02.27.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Supports Bill that Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Washington, D.C. – Representative Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act. “Last year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed over a dozen bills that continued our efforts to end human trafficking, support vulnerable communities, and implement a stronger detection system. I was proud to speak on the House floor in support of these initiatives, as well as the Human Trafficking Task Force created by South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson.” “Today, the House took an additional step by passing the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, H.R. 1865. This legislation imposes new criminal penalties on anyone who uses or operates websites that facilitate prostitution. I am hopeful that we can continue to work together in a bipartisan manner to protect victims of human trafficking.” There are an estimated 20.9 million women, men, and children who are victims of human trafficking or forced labor worldwide, a $150 billion industry. H.R. 1865 expresses the sense of Congress that section 230 of the Communications Act of 1934 was not intended to provide legal protection to websites that unlawfully promote and facilitate prostitution and contribute to sex trafficking.
02.26.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson’s Statement on Increased Sanctions on North Korea West Columbia, SC- Representative Joe Wilson (R-SC) release the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s North Korea sanctions announcement today. “I am grateful that President Donald Trump is continuing to take the North Korean regime and its threats seriously. Today’s announcement of the largest sanctions package against North Korea to date shows America will not sit by and allow a rogue regime to threaten our families or democracy around the globe. These sanctions effectively target the regime and any other individuals and international corporate entities who do business with North Korea. This is what a successful foreign policy of peace through strength looks like. I appreciate the strong leadership of President Trump and his Administration, with the Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, all of whom understand that we must slow the rapid pace of North Korea’s nuclear weapons development.”
02.22.2018	***Media Advisory*** Washington, D.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), a senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, will hold a press conference call with members of the media on Thursday to discuss his trips this week to the Munich Security Conference and NATO Parliamentary Assembly. After which, he will take questions from the media. When: Friday, February 23rd at 10:00AM What: Press Conference Call to Discuss Rep. Wilson’s trip to the Munich Security Conference and NATO Parliamentary Assembly RSVP: To Jennifer Krantz at Jennifer.krantz@mail.house.gov You can find more information on the Munich Security Conference here and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly here.
02.21.2018	Representative Joe Wilson (R-Springdale) released the following statement regarding the passing of Reverend Billy Graham. "Roxanne and I were saddened to hear about the passing of Reverend Billy Graham this morning, but we are grateful for his positive impact on America and the world. Over the course of Rev. Graham’s incredible life, he prayed and met with 12 presidents, was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in 1983, earned the Congressional Gold Medal in 1996, and had over 200 million people attend his worldwide crusades." "We celebrate Rev Graham's remarkable life and legacy, and keep the Graham family in our thoughts during this difficult time."
02.20.2018	IN CASE YOU MISSED IT Hamas decries Wilson bill sanctioning 'human shields' practice Legislation Introduced by Wilson, Moulton Holds Hamas Accountable For Violating Human Rights “Hamas is condemning a U.S. bill that sanctions the Islamic militant group for using civilians in Gaza as ‘human shields.’ The House unanimously passed the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act on Wednesday. Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum says Thursday that the bill sides with ‘the Israeli narrative.’ The bill steps up U.S. pressure against Hamas, which Washington and much of the West already considers a terrorist organization. As such the bill would not add any additional sanctions on the group. Echoing Israeli complaints, the bill says Hamas routinely instructs Palestinians not to flee from Israeli airstrikes, forcing them to act as ‘human shields.’ Hamas wrested control of Gaza from Western-backed Palestinian Authority in 2007. Last month, the U.S. designated Hamas' leader Ismail Haniyeh as a "global terrorist." (Associated Press, “Hamas decries U.S. bill sanctioning ‘human shields’ practice, 2/15/2018) LINK: http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/hamas-decries-us-bill-sanctioning-human-shields-practice-53111053 Background: The Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act – introduced by Congressman Joe Wilson and Congressman Seth Moulton – sanctions Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. For far too long, Hamas has taken shelter and launched offensives against Israel from civilian areas- including schools, hospitals, and mosques. Their actions knowingly and carelessly put innocent lives at risk and are a gross violation of human rights and international law. Last June, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) discovered Hamas tunnels under two of its schools in Gaza, demonstrating how they knowingly integrate terrorist operations with children, in civilian areas. You can find the press release from after the House unanimously passed H.R. 3542 here: https://joewilson.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/rep-joe-wilsons-legislation-sanctioning-hamas-passes-house-unanimously
02.14.2018	Reps. Joe Wilson and Seth Moulton's Legislation Sanctioning Hamas Passes House Washington, D.C. - Today, the House unanimously passed H.R. 3542, the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, which sanctions Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. This legislation was introduced by Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06), joined by original co-sponsors Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-22). After the vote, Rep. Joe Wilson said, “The world must face the threat of Hamas terrorists, as they continue to perpetrate atrocities against civilians and use them as human shields. I am grateful that the U.S. House of Representatives took a stand today against this murderous terrorist group, and am hopeful that the Senate will pass H.R. 3542 quickly. I believe this legislation will help ensure the lives of innocent Palestinian civilians are spared by proactively imposing strong sanctions against Hamas.” Representative Seth Moulton stated: "When Hamas uses innocent citizens as human shields, it shows how weak and immoral terrorists can be. We cannot claim to be moral leaders in the world if we sit on our hands and let this disgusting practice continue. It's past time the House take up this bill, and I hope to see it pass the Senate and arrive on the President's desk as soon as possible. Protecting innocent human lives is not a partisan issue; it's basic human decency." Read the bill text here. Last June, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) discovered Hamas tunnels under two of its schools in Gaza, demonstrating how Hamas knowingly integrates terrorist operations in civilian resources.
02.12.2018	Rep. Wilson’s Statement on President Donald Trump and OMB Director Mulvaney’s FY19 Budget Request West Columbia, S.C. – Representative Joe Wilson (R-Springdale) released the following statement after President Donald Trump and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney released the President’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2019. “I am grateful that President Donald Trump and OMB Director Mick Mulvaney have produced a budget outline that prioritizes a strong national defense and a robust American economy that creates jobs. This budget outline provides $716 billion for our national defense, including a 2.6% pay raise for the troops, and $18 billion for a border wall. Reducing the deficit is a priority, including a $1.7 trillion reduction in mandatory spending over 10 years, a 2% reduction in non-defense discretionary funding starting in 2019, and a commitment to achieve savings by reducing regulation.” “The administration’s funding proposal continues to invest in many of the critical missions at the Savannah River Site – although it unfortunately proposes terminating the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility, once again. Sadly, the budget request also neglects to include funding for the Charleston Harbor Post 45 deepening project. Adequate federal funding is critical to ensuring that this project is completed in a timely and efficient manner.” The Port of Charleston contributes $53 billion in annual economic impact to the state of South Carolina. In the Midlands and Aiken-Barnwell area, the Port has a $13.6 billion economic impact and supports 1 in 12 jobs in the region.
02.12.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Celebrates Tax Cuts Bill With Local Business Owners Aiken, S.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-Springdale) visited Norman Dunagan, owner of Whiskey Alley restaurant and Dumpster Depot, to congratulate him on his expansion resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Rep. Wilson later met with Clancy Cipkala, President and CEO of Solara Hospitality in West Columbia. Solara Hospitality is providing bonuses for their hotel hourly associates due to the tax cuts passed by Republicans. With the leadership of President Donald Trump, Speaker Paul Ryan, and House Republicans, unemployment is down to 4.1%, the lowest since 2000, with record low unemployment for African Americans and Latinos. The Business Roundtable, an association of America’s largest employers, is reporting that tax reform has already produced wage increases, bonuses, and increased matches for retirement savings, lower prices for consumers, investment in facilities and tens of thousands of new American jobs as a direct result of tax reform. Business Roundtable members alone have provided over $545 million in bonuses to employees, with bonuses, wage increases and a range of other employee benefits to 1.6 million workers, along with $1.2 billion in charitable contributions. In total, more than 270 companies have offered employee benefits as a direct result of tax reform, helping over three million American families. Many businesses in South Carolina have already announced pay and benefit increases, like CMC Steel Company, Tidewater Boats and Nephron Pharmaceuticals. Families all across the state are seeing their take home pay increase. Nationally, Exxon Mobil is investing $50 billion in development as Apple, Aflac, UPS, Starbucks, Tyson Foods, and Walmart are announcing extraordinary expansions, bonuses, and job increases.
02.09.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson Supports Bi-Partisan Budged Agreement that Properly Funds our Armed Services Washington, D.C. - Today, the House passed a two-year budget agreement that finally provides critical relief from sequestration for defense and domestic spending by lifting strict budget caps, and raises the debt ceiling to ensure that the federal government can continue to pay its bills. “Today’s budget agreement reasserts that America’s national security, military strength, and defense capabilities are a priority. The passage of this legislation provides support for our Veterans, security for American families, and domestic funding for community health centers and those affected by natural disasters.” The increase in defense spending comes a critical time. Last year, 80 servicemen and women tragically lost their lives due to training incidents and preventable accidents. That is almost four times as many as those who lost their lives in combat. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, I am grateful that we have achieved funding levels that honor the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform for military families. By restoring funding, our armed services can finally address critical maintenance and infrastructure needs. With stable and consistent funding, our military can now recruit effectively, train appropriately and modernize equipment for future conflicts with additional safety.” Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry commended Rep. Wilson’s vote in support of this legislation, stating “I am thankful to have Congressman Joe Wilson as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness due to his steadfast, unwavering support for our service men and women. Today’s vote proves that when it comes to ensuring our military has the resources and capabilities they need to succeed, Rep. Wilson will continue to be a dedicated advocate.” The bipartisan, bicameral compromise secures CHIP funding for and additional four years, authorizes $6 billion to combat the opioid crisis, $20 billion for infrastructure, $4 billion for the VA and over $80 billion to support communities affected by natural disasters. It allocates $2 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health and extends funding for community health centers. “This agreement would not be possible without the leadership of President Donald Trump, Speaker Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, and Conference Chair Cathy McMorris-Rodgers.”
02.07.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson introduces H. Res. 728, which condemns the UNHRC targeting of Israel​ WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after introducing H. Res. 728 today, which reaffirms the relationship between the United States and Israel, recognizes that the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) wastes U.S. tax dollars by targeting Israel, and reiterates that the UNHRC needs to stop unfairly targeting Israel. “Israel is America’s most valued ally in the region, and we must stand up for our friends when they are being treated unfairly. Recently, we have seen the United Nations disproportionately targeting Israel, with six anti-Israel resolutions passed last year alone. This is unacceptable.” “I agree with President Donald Trump, the UNHRC’s recent actions fall far outside of the scope of their mandate, and are a waste of time and resources that could be used more effectively. Even the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed his “disappointment” with the UNHRC singling out Israel, given the multitude of other human rights violations occurring around the world.” “I am grateful for the leadership of President Trump, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, and U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, who have restored American leadership on the world’s stage by renewing our commitment to peace through strength. I am hopeful that this resolution will send a clear signal that America will condemn discriminatory treatment towards Israel.” Between 2006 and 2014, the UNHRC spent a third of its special sessions on condemning Israel, while not dedicating a single special session on China or Russia. Israel is also the only country in the world to receive a permanent agenda item at the UNHRC, #7. H. Res. 728-Reaffirming United States support for Israel & Condemning UNHRC.pdf
02.05.2018	West Columbia, S.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-Springdale) visited Bill Mooneyhan at Mooneyhan’s Auto Service in West Columbia, to congratulate him on its expansion. Mooneyhan will be adding a new bay onto the shop due to the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Wilson was joined by Ben Homeyer, State Director for the National Federation of Independent Businesses, which was instrumental in promoting tax reform drafted by President Donald Trump and Speaker Paul Ryan with Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX). With the leadership of President Donald Trump, House Republicans and the anticipation of tax reform, an estimated 2.2 million new jobs have been created in the past year. Unemployment is down to 4.1%, the lowest since 2000, with record low unemployment for African Americans and Latinos. The Stock Market has risen 8,000 points since President Trumps Election, the largest percent gain since 1931, with American families financially strengthened by $8 trillion. Tax cuts that create jobs were advanced with deregulation. President Trump reversed 22 regulations for every new regulation implemented. Local success of the law was first heralded by Lou and Bill Kennedy, of Nephron Pharmaceuticals in Cayce, announcing 125 new jobs and a five percent pay increase. Other South Carolina businesses have announced pay and benefit increases from CMC Steel Company to Hobby Lobby and Walmart. Nationally, Exxon Mobil is investing $50 billion in development as Apple and Starbucks are announcing extraordinary expansions and job increases.
02.04.2018	West Columbia, S.C. - Rep. Joe Wilson released the following statement regarding the train collision in Cayce, S.C. this morning. “Roxanne and I are sending our thoughts and prayers to all those injured and to the loved ones of the two people who lost their lives in this tragic accident. I am grateful for the courageous actions of the first responders and the selfless Red Cross volunteers at the Pine Ridge Middle School Red Cross Shelter.” Representative Wilson went to the Red Cross shelter today to talk with survivors and first responders. He also spoke with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to discuss the collision. “I have faith in the leadership of Secretary Chao, a longtime friend, and stand with her in calling for the Senate to immediately remove the hold on Ronald Batory’s nomination to lead the Federal Railroad Administration. It is crucial to ensure the Department of Transportation is fully staffed and have their chief railway safety official in place.” Rep. Joe Wilson also spoke with Amtrak CEO Richard Anderson to express his sympathy for their loss of personnel and commend him on Amtrak’s continuing efforts to quickly provide bus transportation for all passengers affected. Amtrak has set up a passenger information line at 800-523-9101.
02.01.2018	West Columbia, S.C.- Representative Joe Wilson (SC 02) released the following statement regarding the new leader of Hamas being added to the terrorist blacklist. "I am grateful for the leadership of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in adding the new leader of Hamas, Ismail Haniyeh, to the official terrorist blacklist yesterday. This designation will result in freezing any U.S. assets and prohibit any partnerships with the U.S. Sanctions are an effective tool to deny resources to murderous terrorist regimes and I have long been a proponent of using sanctions against Hamas. Last year, I introduced the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act with Representative Seth Moulton, bipartisan legislation which would sanction Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. For too long, Hamas has taken shelter and launched offensives against Israel from civilian areas, including schools, hospitals, and mosques, knowingly and heartlessly put innocent lives at risk. I am hopeful that this bill will be passed out of the Foreign Affairs Committee soon."
01.31.2018	Washington, D.C.- Representative Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Chairman Trey Gowdy announced his retirement today. “I have had the honor and privilege of working with Congressman Trey Gowdy, and his wife Terri, for the past 7 years. Although I will miss working with him, I know he will continue to be a tireless advocate for the Constitution and against corruption. Throughout his time in Congress, Representative Gowdy demonstrated principled courage and an unwavering commitment to representing South Carolina. He was a respected leader, as Chairman of the Oversight committee, and a good friend. Best wishes to Chairman Trey Gowdy and his wife Terri- we look forward to your continued service for the American people!”
01.31.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the tragic train accident on the way to the GOP Retreat. "Thank you to all those who have reached out to see if I’m OK. Although I was on the train to the GOP retreat in WV, I am doing fine, as is Roxanne. Prayers go out to all those injured today, and to the loved ones of the person who lost his life in this tragic accident."
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. - Representative Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement ahead of President Trump’s first State of the Union address this evening. “We can all be grateful for President Donald Trump’s achievements in promoting peace through strength abroad and creating jobs and economic opportunity at home during his first year in office. President Trump has stood up to the dangerous regime in North Korea and encouraged our troops to seek victory, resulting in significant progress in defeating ISIL terrorists. The economy is booming with an increase in 2.2 million jobs, a stock market reaching record highs, and historic tax cuts that have resulted in countless businesses providing pay increases and bonuses to their employees.”
01.25.2018	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) participated in a restaurant roundtable with the National Restaurant Association and the South Carolina Restaurant and Lodging Association in Columbia yesterday: “I was grateful for the opportunity to meet with restaurant owners from the Midlands today and hear about their role in creating jobs and serving their community. I also appreciated learning more about the challenges restaurants face, and discussing how Congress can support their efforts to create jobs. “On behalf of the South Carolina Restaurant and Lodging Association, we thank Congressman Wilson for taking time to meet with restaurateurs from across the district today. Opportunities for direct dialogue with our representatives in Congress are an important venue to voice our concerns on a number of issues including health care and regulatory reform. Our vibrant hospitality industry is vital to South Carolina’s second district” said John Durst, President & CEO, South Carolina Restaurant and Lodging Association. “I will continue to work in Congress to support small businesses by cutting regulations, reforming the tax code, and repealing Obamacare to promote jobs,” Rep. Wilson concluded. The issues discussed at the roundtable included the negative consequences of Obamacare on restaurants, which resulted in higher taxes, reduced choice, increased regulation, and skyrocketing healthcare cost. They also discussed the Save Local Business Act (H.R. 3441), bipartisan legislation of which Rep. Wilson is an original co-sponsor. This bill would clarify the definition of “joint-employer” to ensure that employers are only liable for their direct employees and protect locally owned franchises and small businesses.
01.23.2018	West Columbia, S.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs and Armed Services Committees, released the following statement regarding the news that American citizens were killed and injured in the Taliban’s 13-hour siege of an upscale hotel in Kabul, Afghanistan this weekend. “The murderous terrorist attack by the Taliban in Kabul, Afghanistan was as cowardly as it was senseless. This is another reminder that we must win the Global War on Terrorism overseas. We must remain vigilant and in pursuit of terrorist organizations operating in both Afghanistan and Pakistan and we need a comprehensive approach to securing stability in the region. I am grateful for the leadership of President Donald Trump, who is promoting a foreign policy of peace through strength, which includes sending thousands more U.S. troops to Afghanistan and pursuing result driven policies. Roxanne and I will keep the victims – including those who have lost their lives and those who are injured – in our prayers.”
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson (SC 02) issued the following statement regarding the House and Senate passing a funding bill that reopens the federal government. “I am grateful that Senate Democrats have finally recognized how crucial it is to fund our military and support American families across the country. Our men and women in uniform should never be treated like pawns in a political game. Last week, House Republicans acted responsibly by passing a continuing resolution that funded the government and I am grateful that Senate Democrats have finally followed the lead, and joined in standing up for the American people. While the government has reopened, our work has just begun. I look forward to working with Speaker Paul Ryan and Chairman Mac Thornberry to achieve a long-term defense spending bill before the February 8th funding deadline. It is imperative our troops receive the funding they deserve in order to adequately prepare for the unending threats facing our nation. They are the defenders of our freedoms and it is time we funded them as such.”
01.20.2018	Rep. Joe Wilson issued the following statement after sending a letter to Chief Administrative Officer Phil Kiko of the House Committee on Administration requesting that his pay be withheld until the government shutdown is resolved. “Senator Schumer and Senate Democrats had the option to keep the government open and provide funding for at-risk children and our troops, but instead American families are experiencing a shutdown. Thousands of families at Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site could potentially face smaller paychecks as a result of this dilemma. If my constituents are feeling this pain, Members of Congress should as well."
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson released the following statement regarding Senate Democrats decision to let the government shut down last night. “Last night, I was disappointed to watch Senate Democrats oppose a clean spending bill that would have kept our government open and reauthorized the Children’s Health Insurance Plan for six years. Senate Democrats are just trying to distract families from President Donald Trump’s successes on his first anniversary in office. A government shutdown does not benefit anyone, and it causes irreparable harm to our military. Over 100,000 National Guardsmen will be sent home from weekend training, and over two million service members will have their pay disrupted by Senate Democrat’s partisan politics. This is unacceptable. Sadly, Democrats have chosen to hold adequate funding of our troops serving in harm’s way across the globe and children in need of a long-term fix for their health insurance hostage over immigration legislation. It is time Democrats in both the Senate and House stop playing politics and fund the government, it is what their constituents and their country expect of them.”
01.18.2018	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed a continuing resolution that funds the government through February 16th. “Today, House Republicans passed a necessary solution to keep the government’s doors open. Continuing resolutions are not the way that our Government is supposed to work, but represent the only alternative to prevent a shutdown. I am grateful that this bill will avoid an interruption of the vital missions at Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site, as well as extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program for six years. While not ideal, I hope that this CR will provide the time necessary to produce a spending bill that will finally appropriately fund our military.”
01.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement regarding the House passage of HR 4318, the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act. “I’m grateful that the House passed the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act of 2017. Since the last Miscellaneous Tariff Bill expired in 2012, American companies have spent billions on tariffs to import products that are not even available in the United States. This bill waives those tariffs and allows American businesses critical access to the materials they need to make their products. I am thankful for Chairman Kevin Brady and the entire Ways and Means committee for their work on this important issue.”
01.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Joe Wilson, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s Iran announcement. “While I do not support the Iran Nuclear Deal, I am grateful for President Trump’s continued leadership on increasing sanctions and turning up the pressure on those groups and individuals within Iran who perpetuate and finance terrorism. I concur with fellow South Carolinian Ambassador Nikki Haley in emphasizing the critical need for thorough vetting of Iranian compliance with deescalating their nuclear program.” It is important to note that the United States is maintaining targeted sanctions on people and companies in Iran despite the announcement today. In February of last year, President Trump announced sanctions on 25 individuals and entities following Iran’s ballistic missile test.
12.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson will announce his legislative priorities for 2018 during a tour of the second congressional district on Wednesday, January 3. The schedule for Congressman Wilson’s tour is as follows: 10:00 AM: Midlands Office of Congressman Joe Wilson 1700 Sunset Blvd (US 378), Suite 1 West Columbia, S.C. 29169 12:00 PM: Aiken Aiken County Government Center 1930 University Parkway Aiken, S.C. 29801 NOTE: 3rd Floor, Aiken County Council Chambers 1:30 PM: North Augusta North Augusta Municipal Building 100 Georgia Avenue North Augusta, S.C. 29841 NOTE: 3rd Floor, Administration Lobby 3:00 PM: Barnwell Barnwell County Courthouse 141 Main Street Barnwell, S.C. 29812 NOTE: Room #106 if raining -###-
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson today issued the following statement after the United Nations vote condemning the United States decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capitol: “What happened today at the United Nations was as disgraceful as it was disrespectful. We have every right to locate our embassy in Jerusalem, and I support the commitment of President Donald Trump to move forward with these plans. I am also grateful for Ambassador Nikki Haley’s leadership because she is exactly right: we won’t forget today’s vote the next time the U.N. looks to us to foot the bill for much of the organization’s costs." ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson today released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report to H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today, House Republicans made history by passing the first meaningful tax cuts bill in a generation. These tax cuts will grow small businesses in the district and across the country, and allow Americans to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks. I am grateful for the leadership of House Republicans on delivering tax cuts to the American people and look forward to President Donald Trump signing this bill into law. By cutting taxes, we create jobs and provide opportunities for families across our state and country. ” ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after introducing H. Res. 662, which recognizes Israel’s sovereignty to choose its own capital, reaffirms the relationship between the United States and Israel, recognizes that Israel is the United States’ strongest ally in the Middle East, and reiterates that the U.S. Congress strongly opposes the United Nations General Assembly’s anti-Israel actions. “America’s bond with Israel is unique, and its strength is the foundation of American leadership in the Middle East. The president’s recent announcement that our embassy will be located in Jerusalem strengthens that bond. Recently, we have seen the United Nations General Assembly pass six anti-Israel resolutions. This is wrong. Israel has not only been our long-standing ally, but also is our strongest ally in the Middle East. “When we see the United Nations and members of the international community target Israel, bullying a country that is surrounded by those who would do it harm, we’re going to – in the courageous words of Ambassador Nikki Haley – call them out. The people of Israel should know we have their back. “I am grateful for the leadership of President Donald Trump and Ambassador Nikki Haley, who have restored American leadership on the world’s stage by renewing our commitment to peace through strength, and I am grateful to have the opportunity to recognize Israel as America’s strongest ally in the Middle East and condemn the anti-Israeli defamation that has defined the United Nations in recent years.” -###-
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson today introduced the Ensuring Diplomats Safety Act. The bill requires the Secretary of State of the United States to remove all diplomatic personnel from Cuba until federal investigations into the harmful attacks on U.S. Foreign Service Officers are complete. The congressman’s bill was introduced after the Associated Press reported this week that: “Doctors treating the U.S. Embassy victims of mysterious, invisible attacks in Cuba have discovered brain abnormalities as they search for clues to explain the hearing, vision, balance and memory damage.” (The Associated Press, 12/6/2017) “We must be able to ensure the safety of our men and women representing the nation overseas,” said Congressman Wilson, a senior member of House Foreign Affairs. “In light of the health issues experienced by Americans in Havana, we should consider bringing home all U.S. diplomatic staff from Cuba until we know who committed these attacks and can ensure their safety.” At least 20 diplomatic staff from the U.S. Embassy in Havana, and their families, reported a variety of injuries while working and living in Havana. The injuries sustained ranged from hearing loss to cognitive to balance issues and resulted in the evacuation of all non-essential personnel from the embassy and island. Investigators have suggested that these injuries resulted from the use of sonic-based weaponry throughout the U.S. diplomatic staff’s time working at the embassy and staying in a hotel. In October, Congressman Wilson asked the U.S. State Department to investigate attacks on diplomats in Havana in a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. "In light of these serious attacks on U.S. embassy staff, we urge the State Department to immediately investigate the incidents and figure out what is going on in Havana," he wrote. The Associated Press’ latest story on the health impact of these Cuban attacks is available here, and information about Congressman Wilson’s letter to Secretary Tillerson is available here. -###-
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson today released the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s announcement that the United States would recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital city and locate its embassy in the city: “America’s bond with Israel is unique, and its strength is the foundation of American leadership in the Middle East. The president’s announcement that our embassy will be located in Jerusalem strengthens that bond, and I am grateful to see him honor another one of his campaign commitments. The people of Israel know they have an ally in the White House.” -###-
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, released the following statement after North Korea’s nuclear missile test and the emergency Security Council meeting: “North Korea’s latest nuclear missile test was its most provocative to date, putting all American families at risk, and it’s more important than ever that North Korea’s neighbors take the reckless regime’s continual escalation of nuclear threats as seriously as we do. Ambassador Nikki Haley was absolutely right when she urged China – and its President Xi Jingping – to do more to stop North Korea from pushing the world closer to nuclear war. I support Ambassador Haley and President Donald Trump’s national security team, all of whom know that peace through strength is what it takes to keep American families safe, and I join them in calling for China to cut off oil from North Korea.” Today, Congressman Wilson delivered a One Minute Speech on the House floor praising U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley for her stern warning to North Korea.
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson joined Speaker Paul Ryan and other members to celebrate enrollment of the National Defense Authorization Act as the speaker sent the bill to the White House for the president’s signature. Congressman Wilson said: “I was grateful to serve as one of Speaker Paul Ryan’s conferees, and I strongly support the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act. The bill is good for South Carolina. We are a proud military state. Vital military and national security investments were included in the NDAA, such as funds for Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site, including the continued construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility. Finally, I am grateful for the bill’s permanent extension of the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance under the Survivor Benefit Plan. My predecessor, the late Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Floyd Spence, championed this kind of relief for our military families, and I have continued that fight because our military personnel risk their lives to defend our nation and they should be able to trust that the benefits they designate for their spouses and families will always be there.” -###-
11.20.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today released the following statement after President Donald Trump designated North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism:"President Trump is exactly right. "North Korea – a regime that has threatened to strike the United States with nuclear weapons, tortured and murdered an American citizen and conducted assassinations inside of other countries – belongs on the list of state sponsors of terrorism. "I thank the president for demonstrating once again that strong and decisive leadership on the world's stage is what it takes to keep American families safe." As President Donald Trump addressed the South Korean National Assembly in Seoul two weeks ago, Congressman Joe Wilson introduced House Resolution 612 that recognizes the critical relationship that the United States and South Korea have forged since the formation of the Republic of Korea in 1948. The resolution reaffirms U.S. support for South Korean forces and reiterates that the U.S. presence in South Korea should not be discussed in any potential negotiation with North Korea. Earlier this year and prior to University of Virginia student Otto Warmbier’s death, Congressman Wilson and Congressmen Adam Schiff introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act, which would ban tourist travel to North Korea. Read about the bill Congressman Wilson and Congressman Schiff introduced here. Congressman Wilson recently led a delegation of House colleagues to South Korea. He has also visited North Korea. -###-
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson today released the following statement after House passage of the “Tax Cuts & Jobs Act:” “It’s been more than a generation since Congress passed meaningful tax reform. After months of talking about tax cuts this year, the American people wanted to see members of Congress take action. That’s exactly what Republicans have done. The ‘Tax Cuts & Jobs Act’ makes the tax code simpler and fairer, allows hardworking taxpayers to keep more of the money they earn and gives small businesses more room to grow and create jobs. When taxes are low, businesses thrive, and jobs are created in the Reagan tradition. I am grateful for the leadership of Speaker Ryan and House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, and I look forward to working with them, in addition to President Donald Trump, on delivering meaningful tax relief to the American people. They deserve it.” Additional information about what the "Tax Cuts & Jobs Act" means for the second congressional district is available here. -###-
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement after House passage of the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act conference report: “As Chairman of the Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee and one of Speaker Ryan’s conferees, I strongly support the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act and celebrate House passage of the conference report. “The defense bill represents a huge win for South Carolina, one of the nation’s proudest military states, because it authorizes funding for vital military and national security investments such as the Savannah River Site, including the continued construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility. “The report also includes my bill, H.R. 903, that prohibits funding the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization, an unnecessary organization that prepares for the entry into a treaty that was never ratified by Congress, in turn saving taxpayers millions of dollars.” “Finally, I am grateful for the bill’s permanent extension of the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance, under the Survivor Benefit Plan, that finally does away with the widow’s tax. Our military personnel, so many of whom call South Carolina home, risk their lives to defend our nation, and they should be able to trust that the benefits they designate for their spouses and families will always be there.” Congressman Wilson delivered remarks regarding the FY18 NDAA conference report on the House floor on Tuesday afternoon. Click here to watch Congressman Wilson’s remarks. -###-
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after signing the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act conference report: “The defense bill funds our military and vital national security projects, ensures our men and women in uniform have the equipment they need to win the Global War on Terrorism and represents a huge win for South Carolina. “South Carolina is one of our nation’s proudest military states. We celebrate the men and women of the Armed Forces – from Fort Jackson in the district to Parris Island near Beaufort - who sacrifice every day to keep us safe. They deserve our full support – and in this bill, they have it. “I am particularly grateful that it permanently extends the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance under the Survivor Benefit Plan. Military families now have permanent relief from the widow’s tax after fighting to repeal it for many years – a cause championed by the late Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee Floyd Spence (R-S.C.). Our military personnel risk their lives to defend our nation, and they should be able to trust that the benefits they designate for their spouses and families will be there.” House Speaker Paul Ryan named Congressman Wilson to serve on the House-Senate conference committee for the 2018 NDAA last month. Conferees worked together to resolve differences between House and Senate-passed versions of a bill that funds the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces of the United States. -###-
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson, Congressman Francis Rooney (FL-19) and Congressman Bradley Byrne (AL-1) today introduced H.R. 4327 the Current Employee Representation Act. This legislation would allow workers to petition for a union certification election when fewer than 50% of current employees were members during the last election. “I am grateful for the chance to join my colleagues Congressman Francis Rooney and Congressman Bradley Byrne in introducing the Current Employee Representation Act,” said Congressman Wilson. “We know that our businesses flourish and the economy grows when employees are empowered and unions are accountable to those who join the workforce.” Many current employees are locked into old and outdated union contracts, approved long before they were hired. All employees deserve a voice that is reflective of today’s workplace. This legislation would allow employees to decertify and represent themselves if they deem the union unnecessary. Congressman Rooney said: “The Current Employee Representation Act will provide union members more representation, as their views may differ from decisions made decades ago especially in the rapidly modernizing workforce of today. This legislation also gives union employees more power to be heard and hold the higher-up decision makers within unions more accountable to the rank and file.” Congressman Byrne stated: “The needs and realities of the 21st Century workforce are a lot different from what workers faced decades in the past. With the Current Employee Representation Act, we can ensure workers are able to fully and effectively advocate for their needs. I applaud Congressman Rooney for his work on this pro-worker legislation, and I look forward to continue advocating for policies that benefit the hardworking men and women in America.” -###-
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson today introduced House Resolution 612 that recognizes the critical relationship that the United States and South Korea have forged since the formation of the Republic of Korea in 1948. The resolution reaffirms U.S. support for South Korean forces and reiterates that the U.S. presence in South Korea should not be discussed in any potential negotiation with North Korea. “I was grateful to have the opportunity to lead a bipartisan delegation of House members to South Korea this summer,” said Congressman Wilson. “During the trip I was reminded that our alliance with South Korea is one of the most important relationships we have around the world. President Donald Trump, who addressed South Korea’s National Assembly in Seoul as a part of his trip to Asia, has demonstrated that he understands the significance of our alliance, and that’s a breath of fresh air for both countries.” In the years since formal hostilities ended and the Korean Armistice was signed, the U.S. and South Korea have deterred communist aggressors, including the nuclear threat from North Korea, and built a $145 billion annual trade relationship that strengthens the economies in both countries. South Korea began an economic boom in the early 1960’s as the nation recovered from the Korean War. The country quickly became one of the largest industrialized nations in the world, revealing the stark contrast of a booming South as opposed to the destitution of the communist North. The U.S. and South Korea have cooperated on the peaceful use and implementation of nuclear energy for almost 60 years and worked mutually on pressuring North Korea towards nuclear disarmament. The U.S. and South Korea conduct five major training exercises and several dozen small unit exercises every year in preparation for possible continued conflict with the North. South Korea pays approximately $800 million a year in support of U.S. military costs incurred due to the presence of 28,000 troops on the peninsula and has paid nearly $10 billion to build and expand Camp Humphreys for use by the U.S., which Congressman Wilson toured in October. ###
11.02.2017	CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) — President Donald Trump’s upcoming visit to Asia will provide needed assurances amid ongoing concerns about North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, a South Carolina congressman who recently returned from his own trip to the area said Thursday. “Obviously, with the threats from Kim Jong Un, they want to have reassurance of America’s commitment,” U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson said during a phone interview with The Associated Press on Thursday. “I just think it’s so reassuring that the president will be there.” Wilson recently returned from a trip to Asia, where he led a delegation to countries including South Korea and Japan. He spoke with AP a day before Trump was set to leave for a trip that includes visits to those countries, plus China, Vietnam and the Philippines. The entire Associated Press story is available here.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson today released the following statement on the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act:” “I am grateful for the opportunity to work with Speaker Paul Ryan, House Republicans and President Donald Trump’s team on historic tax cuts. Together, we can make the tax code simpler and fairer, allow hardworking taxpayers to keep more of the money they earn and give small businesses more room to grow and create jobs.” ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the South Carolina Peanut Parity Act, a critical piece of legislation introduced by Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), that would grant South Carolina representation on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Peanut Standards Board. “I am grateful for House passage of the Peanut Parity Act,” said Congressman Wilson. “South Carolina is the fourth largest peanut producing state, and our farmers deserve a voice on the Peanut Standards Board. This bill will finally give them that voice.” All members of the South Carolina delegation are co-sponsors of the legislation. In the 2002 Farm Bill, the U.S. Department of Agriculture established the Peanut Standards Board, a board that advises the Secretary of Agriculture and Department on peanut quality and handling standards. The board consists of 18 members who represent three regions: the Southeast (Alabama, Florida, and Georgia), the Southwest (New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas), and Virginia/North Carolina. Each region is represented with three producer seats and three industry representative seats, and members serve staggered three year terms. By law, members of the Peanut Standards Board must be from a state in one of the three designated regions. South Carolina farmers produce over eight percent of the nation’s peanuts. As a state, South Carolina is the fourth largest peanut producing state. The boiled peanut was designated by the state legislature as South Carolina’s official state snack in 2006. -###-
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to the Tuesday afternoon terrorist attack in New York City: "This afternoon’s terrorist attack in New York City was as cowardly as it was senseless. This is another reminder that we must win the Global War on Terrorism overseas to stop terrorists from threatening American families here at home. The people of New York City have faced challenges like this before, and their strength and unity always inspire us. Roxanne and I will keep the victims – including those who have lost their lives and those who are injured – in our prayers." -###-
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act. The bill expands sanctions that target Iran’s ballistic missiles program. Congressman Joe Wilson, senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the House’s vote: “We sent a strong message to Iran and to those individuals and financial institutions that support its dangerous weapons programs: the days of America standing by and allowing you to build up an arsenal that threatens our families and our allies are over.” Last year, Congressman Wilson and Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06) co-sponsored a key amendment to the NDAA to require the president to officially notify Congress whenever Iran conducts a ballistic missile launch, and to inform Congress what actions will be taken. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement on passage of the FY18 Budget Resolution: “American families, including those in the second district, deserve to keep more of the money they earn. Working together with Speaker Ryan, we can simplify the tax code and allow U.S. companies to compete on a level playing field. Today’s vote is a positive step that paves the way for tax cuts and a new era of creating jobs.” -###-
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today released the following statement on House passage of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions Act: ”University of Virginia student Otto Warmbier was a bright young man whose murder reminded the world of the brutality of North Korea’s regime. North Korea poses a dangerous threat to our allies, and the passage of these sanctions is another step toward stopping North Korea before it has the capacity to strike the United States.” Earlier this year and prior to Warmbier’s release, Congressman Wilson and Congressmen Adam Schiff introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act, which would ban tourist travel to North Korea. Read about the bill Congressman Wilson and Congressman Schiff introduced here. ###
10.20.2017	COLUMBIA, S.C. - U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson on Thursday called on the U.S. State Department to investigate a bizarre string of attacks on diplomats in Havana, urging Secretary Rex Tillerson to get to the bottom of unexplained, invisible attacks that have hurt Americans on Cuban soil. "In light of these serious attacks on U.S. embassy staff, we urge the State Department to immediately investigate the incidents and figure out what is going on in Havana," Wilson, a South Carolina Republican and House Foreign Affairs Committee member, wrote. Read More At The New York Times. -###-
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today released the following statement: “President Trump's decision not to re-certify the Iran Deal is exactly right. This was a reckless and dangerous deal from the start, it never truly served the interests of the American people, and it threatened the safety and security of America and our allies. "I look forward to re-visiting the consideration of economic sanctions on the House floor." This week, the House Foreign Affairs Committee approved the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act that imposes sanctions directly targeting Iran’s nuclear program and its ability to produce ICBM’s.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement after he was appointed to the House-Senate conference committee on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA): “South Carolina is one of the nation’s proudest military states. As the father of four sons who have served overseas, I am extraordinarily grateful for the opportunity to join House and Senate colleagues of both parties on the NDAA conference committee. The men and women of the Armed Forces, along with military families, sacrifice every day to keep us safe, and they deserve our full support.” Conferees, appointed by the Speaker of the House and approved by full House vote, work together to resolve differences between House and Senate-passed versions of a bill that funds the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces of the United States. Congressman Wilson is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. Additional information regarding Congressman Wilson’s appointment is available here.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today expressed his support for H.R. 36, Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The bill, which bans abortions 20 weeks or more after fertilization, gives millions of unborn children a chance to live. “Every life is precious, has value, and is blessed by God,” said Congressman Wilson. “Working together with pro-life leaders such South Carolina Citizens for Life – and its executive director Holly Gatling – I have fought to protect unborn babies, and I will continue to do so, because those who can’t speak for themselves deserve a voice.” Congressman Wilson delivered a One Minute Speech on the floor of the House in support of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act on Tuesday afternoon. Video of Congressman Wilson's floor speech is available at: https://youtu.be/QkGsWkhay6U According to medical professionals, a fetus that is 20 weeks old can feel pain. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act establishes criminal penalties for anyone who performs or attempts an abortion after the 20-week mark. The bill provides exceptions to save the life of the mother, and in the case of rape or incest. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House Republican Conference retreat on tax reform today: “Constituents I hear from each day want and deserve tax reform. I’m excited to continue working with House Republicans and President Trump to simplify our tax code and make it more competitive to create jobs. "When we cut taxes and simplify the tax code, we make sure taxpayers keep more of the money they earn, we level the playing field for American businesses, and we create jobs and opportunity for every American."
09.15.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after North Korea’s most recent missile launch: As the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, North Korea's second missile launch over Japan in one month is a clear act of defiance of the sanctions imposed on them. This poses a direct and unacceptable threat to the United States and our allies Japan and South Korea. The United States must stand as a leader with our allied nations and do whatever is necessary to keep our families safe. I have full faith in President Trump and his military advisors that they will take whatever actions necessary - be they trade, military, or diplomatic - in order to combat this tyrannical regime. ###
09.05.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement following the Administration’s announcement to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program on Tuesday, September 5, 2017: “I stand with President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions' decision for termination of the unconstitutional DACA program, which is a threat to American jobs.” “President Trump is courageously acting in accordance with the Constitution and living up to his campaign promise to follow the law. This step by the Trump Administration will create additional jobs for American families.” ###
08.22.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, issued the following statement following President Trump's address regarding Afghanistan Strategy on Monday, August 21, 2017: "As the grateful father of an Afghan veteran, a 31 year Army veteran myself, and as Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee I appreciate President Trump's courage and vision for winning over terrorism. We must win in Afghanistan abroad to destroy safe havens of terrorism which would again attack American families at home."
08.21.2017	On Monday, August 28, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual district Bus Tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his work in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Maria Valerio with Congressman Wilson’s office at maria.valerio@mail.house.gov. Monday, August 28, 2017 Aiken Day 10:10AM – Tour of University of South Carolina-Aiken – 471 University Pkwy, Aiken 11:30AM – Tour of Alley Downtown Taproom – 214 the Alley, Aiken 12:00PM – Aiken Rotary Club at Newberry Hall – 117 Newberry St, Aiken 1:10PM – Tour of Hubbell Power Systems Inc – 1850 Richland Ave, Aiken 2:05PM – Tour of Ahh Sunshine – 1555 Whiskey Rd, Aiken 3:00PM – Tour of Kimberly-Clark – 246 Old Jackson Hwy, Beech Island 4:05PM – Tour of CVS Caremark Distribution Center – 111 Revco Rd, Beech Island Tuesday, August 29, 2017 Lexington Day 8:30AM – Meet and Greet at Irmo Chamber of Commerce – 1235 Columbia Ave, Irmo 9:35AM – Tour of Chapin Middle School – 11661 Broad River Rd, Chapin 10:50AM – Tour of K2Tech, 111 Stonemark Lan #115, Columbia 12:00PM – Tour of the Marwin Company – 107 McQueen St, Columbia 1:00PM – Cayce-West Columbia Rotary – 1066 Sunset Blvd, West Columbia 2:20PM – Tour of Menchie’s Frozen Yogurt –5580 Sunset Blvd, Lexington 2:55PM – Tour of Mathnasium – 100 A Old Cherokee Rd, Lexington 3:35PM – Tour of Hansen International – 130 Zenker Rd, Lexington Wednesday, August 30, 2017 Midlands Day 8:50AM – Tour of Cardinal Newman High School – 2945 Alpine Rd, Columbia 10:00AM – Tour of Coca Cola – 1001 Northpoint Blvd, Blythewood 11:20AM – Tour of Form Tool Technology – 121 Pontiac Business Center, Elgin 12:15pm – Lunch with FN America – 797 Old Clemson Rd, Columbia 1:35PM – Tour of South Carolina Vocations & Individual Advancement (SCVIA), a division of Goodwill Industries of Upstate/Midlands SC, INC - Fort Jackson 2:05PM – Tour of Fort Jackson 3:35PM – Tour of Duck Donuts – 702 Cross Hill Rd, Columbia 4:15PM – Tour of Brittons, 2818 Devine St, Columbia Thursday, August 31, 2017 Barnwell and Orangeburg Day 9:30AM – Tour of Anovotek – 9075 Patterson St, Barnwell 11:00AM – Tour of North Family Community School – 4589 Savannah Hwy, North 12:15PM – Lunch at Shealy’s BBQ 1:15PM– Tour of Ansaldo STS – 645 Russell St. Batesburg * Some stops are subject to last-minute scheduling changes. Should a cancellation or time adjustment occur, media will be notified.
08.20.2017	Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement after President Donald Trump directed that United States Cyber Command be elevated to the status of a Unified Combatant Command focused on cyberspace operations: “The elevation of the United States Cyber Command to a Unified Combatant Command focused on cyberspace operation is a significant advancement towards improving our defense and strength as a nation in combatting cyberspace threats. “This move supports previous language in the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act and represents a critical step towards establishing an efficient cyber defense system that allows for the United States to better coordinate with it’s allies and combat cyberspace threats on a global level.”
08.08.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after attending the groundbreaking for a new, freestanding emergency department to serve the Barnwell community this morning: “The announcement that the Regional Medical Center plans to build an emergency department to serve the Barnwell and Bamberg communities is a culmination of work from the state and federal legislative delegations and the Southern Carolina Regional Development Alliance. I am grateful to support the construction of the facility, and look forward to it being opened to serve the community and create jobs next year.” Congressman Wilson attends groundbreaking for new Regional Medical Center emergency department. For more information, please visit here.
08.07.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the United Nations Security Council voted unanimously to sanction North Korea: “The unanimous passage of the most substantial sanctions against North Korea at the United Nations is a remarkable win for both President Donald Trump and Ambassador Nikki Haley. Indeed, it goes to show that we must work with our international partners, like China, in order to enact and enforce meaningful sanctions against the communist, totalitarian regime in Pyongyang. “The success this weekend comes after the State Department enacted responsible travel restrictions to North Korea, similar to the North Korea Travel Control Act, to prevent tourist travel to a regime that uses all available resources to advance their weapons program and subjugate its own citizens.”
07.28.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after North Korea reportedly tested a ballistic missile: “This most recent ballistic missile test from North Korea is a clear provocation and demonstrates the regime’s intent to continue its aggression towards the American families and our allies of South Korea and Japan. I am grateful that Congress put a strong, comprehensive sanctions package on the President’s desk this week that targets Pyongyang. I also look forward to working with the President to explore other methods for putting pressure on this rogue regime to promote peace through strength. “I sincerely hope that this recent missile test, aimed at an ally in the region, will prompt China to work with the United States in exerting pressure on North Korea.”
07.28.2017	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06), joined by original co-sponsors Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-22), introduced the bipartisan Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, legislation that would sanction Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. Congressman Joe Wilson stated: “For too long, Hamas has taken shelter and launched offensives against Israel from civilian areas, including schools, hospitals, and mosques. Their actions have knowingly and carelessly put innocent lives at risk—in clear violation of international law. “We cannot stand by while Hamas continues to perpetrate atrocities against civilians by using them as human shields. This legislation imposes direct sanctions against any terrorist who is responsible for the use of human shields by Hamas.” Congressman Seth Moulton stated: "The use of human shields is a clear human rights violation. This bill ensures that members of Hamas who put civilians in harm’s way are sanctioned for their actions. We have a moral obligation to hold Hamas accountable and I'm proud to support this bipartisan effort.” Read the bill text here. In June, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) discovered Hamas tunnels under two of its schools in Gaza, demonstrating how Hamas knowingly integrates terrorist operations in civilian resources.
07.27.2017	Washington, DC – The House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific marked up and reported the North Korea Travel Control Act (H.R. 2372), introduced by Rep. Schiff and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), to the full committee. This bill would instruct the Secretary of State to restrict the use of U.S. passports for travel to North Korea when the primary purpose is tourism, and require all travelers to notify the State Department of their travel and seek prior approval. This latest action in the House comes just over a month after the tragic death of Otto Warmbier, an American college student who was imprisoned by North Korea for seventeen months. “I’ve visited North Korea on a Congressional delegation in 2003 led by former Congressman Curt Weldon who had been invited after Baghdad had been liberated, getting the attention of the dictator,” said Rep. Wilson. “While there, I saw firsthand how every dollar in North Korea, including the revenue from tourism, goes towards the subjugation of the citizens and towards the very weapons development program it uses to threaten the United States. Additionally, the regime also has no reservations about using illegally detained Americans as bargaining chips in an attempt to score credibility on the world stage. It is past time that we restrict travel to this communist, totalitarian regime, and I am grateful that the legislation overwhelmingly passed the subcommittee. I appreciate Chairman Ted Yoho for scheduling this markup, and hope it is considered before the whole House soon. It is past time that we impose meaningful travel restrictions, while still providing humanitarian exemptions, to North Korea.” Watch Congressman Wilson’s remarks to the subcommittee “Given the increased belligerency and provocations by the North Korean regime, this legislation is all the more important now, and I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee understands the urgency to move this legislation forward," said Rep. Schiff. "The tragic death of Otto Warmbier, tantamount to the murder of a U.S. citizen by North Korea, should heighten our resolve to ensure that no more American citizens are endangered or used as bargaining chips by this pariah state. I look forward to continuing to work with stakeholders in Congress to pass it into law.” In late May, Schiff and Wilson introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act. At least seventeen Americans have been detained in the past ten years, despite the State Department strongly warning U.S. citizens against traveling to the DPRK. Currently, at least three Americans remain imprisoned. With heightened tensions between the United States and North Korea, the danger that additional Americans will be detained for political reasons has increased. In addition to security concerns, Western visitors bring with them much needed foreign currency, especially valued in a country facing extensive international sanctions for its illegal nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. Last week, the State Department indicated its intention to issue regulations restricting travel by Americans to North Korea.
07.25.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed strong sanctions against Russia, Iran, and North Korea: “By overwhelmingly passing the sanctions bill, Congress has sent a clear message to North Korea, Iran, and Russia – or any rogue regime that would threaten our families or democracy around the globe: your behavior will not stand. Today’s sanctions package is an important component of peace through strength and should serve as a strong encouragement for these aggressive states to change course.” This sanctions package addresses North Korea, Iran, and Russia for their actions to threaten Americans and threats to undermine global security. Among other offenses, it targets North Korea for their development and testing of ballistic missiles, Iran for funding terrorist organizations and ballistic missile testing, and Russia for their unlawful aggression in Georgia and Ukraine resulting in over 10,000 deaths. Read the full text of the sanctions here.
07.21.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement following the State Department’s announcement the Administration would enact travel restrictions to North Korea: “Today’s announcement from the State Department that the United States will restrict tourist travel to North Korea marks a positive step forward in denying resources and bargaining power to the communist, totalitarian regime. I am especially grateful that many of the provisions of the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act that I introduced with Congressman Adam Schiff are reflected. “I am eager to work with Secretary Tillerson and President Trump during this process, and as the United States continues to stand strong against the regime. “Next week, I look forward to speaking before the House Foreign Affairs committee as we mark up the North Korea Travel Control Act—sending a clear message to North Korea that the United States is unified in our actions against the regime in Pyongyang."
07.20.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Senator McCain announced he was diagnosed with brain cancer: "My thoughts and prayers are with Senator John McCain and his family during this time. Senator McCain is an American hero, as evidenced by his service in Vietnam and in Congress. "I always cherish our time together on the Conference Committee of the National Defense Authorization Act promoting peace through strength. Best wishes for a swift recovery."
07.14.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) praised the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act: “Today’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act marks a victory for service members, military families, and American families. Under the remarkable leadership of Chairman Mac Thornberry, this year’s National Defense Authorization Act truly begins to right the course—back to responsibility by enacting key accounting reforms at the Department of Defense and making necessary investments to restore military readiness. Our efforts fulfill pledges by President Donald Trump to rebuild the military. "As a veteran, as a military father, I’m confident this year’s NDAA will chart a new course. This year’s bill is a meaningful step forward in the tradition of George Washington, who stated: "To be prepared for war is the most effectual means of preserving the peace." "The primary function of the national government is to provide for the common defense—to ensure that our service members have the training, equipment, and resources they need to complete the mission. This year’s bill does just that." Congressman Wilson also introduced several amendments and advocated on the House floor for key provisions of this year's NDAA: On Readiness: Over the past several months we have heard testimony from every military service branch about the urgent need to address the alarming readiness shortfalls. Their testimonies were sobering, confirming Congress must take bold action. Here today, we have the responsibility of reducing the risk to our soldiers by making sure that they are well-trained, supported, and that the equipment they use is properly maintained and combat-ready. None of these readiness provisions are arbitrary. They are specifically targeted to stop and, as much as possible, begin to reverse the decline in the readiness of our Armed Forces so that they can continue to combat and deter the threats to our national security from around the world. On North Korea: I am grateful to introduce an amendment to this year’s NDAA that expresses a clear sense of Congress—we will not tolerate the escalation by the regime in North Korea, testing ballistic missiles or developing a nuclear weapon. The amendment also reaffirms the strong commitment of the United States to our allies in the region, especially South Korea, Japan, and Australia. It is clear that the regime in North Korea will only respond to strength—and this sense of Congress strongly states our commitment to keeping all options on the table when it comes to addressing the threat from North Korea, whether it be military, diplomatic, or economic. On Keeping Guantanamo Bay Open: I have visited Guantanamo Bay twice and I know first-hand --the detainees as Guantanamo Bay are the worst of the worst, terrorists who are conspirators of Osama bin Laden, trained mass murders, and extremists who have a sole intention of harming Americans and destroying our way of life. As we have seen the proliferation of terrorists around the world—from Algeria and North Africa, though the Middle East, all the way to South Asia and the Philippines, the deterrence of incarceration, and maintaining the facility at Guantanamo Bay, has never been more important. On Opposing Base Closures: Now is not the time to consider a Base Realignment and Closure round. In the past, BRAC has been used without conducting a thorough study, incurred significant costs, and jeopardized valuable military communities, like those in the Midlands surrounding Fort Jackson, or the Aiken-Barnwell community adjacent to Fort Gordon.
06.29.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee completed the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. This legislation would fund our military and vital national security projects. “This year’s NDAA advances our goal of reforming and rebuilding our armed forces by expanding oversight and accountability, ending duplication, and starting the important effort to rebuild our military. “We have the responsibility to reduce the risk for our war fighters by making sure that they are well-trained and supported, and that the equipment they use is properly maintained and combat-ready. Today, with bipartisan support, the House Armed Services Committee showed that we have changed course to promoting peace through strength. ” Summary Here | Full Text of NDAA Here Highlights from the FY 2018 NDAA Wilson’s quotes in italics Readiness and Rebuilding our Military “America faces more threats than ever before, yet our military is the smallest since before World War II. This year’s NDAA takes a critical step forward to rebuilding our military and ensuring that our troops have the training, resources, and equipment they need to complete the mission.” Fort Jackson, located in Congressman Wilson’s district, is the largest initial entry training facility for the US Army. Congressman Wilson also serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness where he oversees the committee’s readiness initiatives. Supporting Military Families “As the former Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee and current Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, I appreciate how critical the success and happiness of military families are to troop readiness and retention. This amendment provides greater support to families with school-aged children, allowing them to relocate at semester breaks rather than in the middle of the school year, and provides greater flexibility for the career or education of military spouses. Families are the backbone of our military. We should support them as they stand up and sacrifice for us.” The military family stability amendment introduced by Congressman Wilson supports military families by giving them greater flexibility to plan for relocation. It grants families the option of remain in their existing station for up to six months or relocate up to six months early of a permanent change of station. It further allows families to choose where to use their housing allowance. The amendment passed by voice vote. MOX / Nuclear Security “I am grateful that the NDAA continues construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at the Savannah River Site to avoid the communities of South Carolina and Georgia to be a dumping ground for plutonium waste. This facility is critical to our national security and environmental clean-up missions converting weapons-grade plutonium into green fuel. The NDAA also provides resources for the environmental management missions at the Savannah River Site.” The NDAA funds MOX at $340 million, and includes specific language requiring the funding go towards continued construction of the facility. Supporting the Global Engagement Center “Recently, we have noticed a disturbing trend as states and terrorist organizations direct and sponsor propaganda and disinformation activities. The propaganda and disinformation threats to the United States and our allies have increased from both state and non-state actors and threaten both military and diplomatic targets. Counterpropaganda is increasingly becoming a critical component of our national security, and we should seek to coordinate efforts between State and Defense.” Congressman Wilson’s bipartisan amendment, introduced with Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), would direct the Secretary of Defense to brief the committee by February 15, 2018, about the opportunities to increase DOD and military support and integration with the Global Engagement Center and maximize its impact. Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) “In the past, BRAC rounds have been used without appropriate study, incur significant costs, and jeopardized valuable military communities. I am grateful that this year’s NDAA specifically prohibits the consideration of a BRAC round.” ### Social Media Summary of FY18 NDAA
06.26.2017	Today, Congressman Jim Clyburn (SC-06), dean of the South Carolina delegation, and Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced Congressman Ralph Norman (SC-05) to Congress following his swearing in ceremony by Speaker Paul Ryan. Watch remarks by Congressman Clyburn, Congressman Wilson, and Congressman Norman here. Congressman Wilson’s remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, It is a great honor to be here tonight with Congressman Clyburn on a very extraordinary evening—to me it is a dream come true. Eleven years ago, my wife and I had the opportunity to campaign across the Fifth Congressional District by bus. As we traveled the district with Ralph and Elaine Norman, I found out that his business background gives him the basis to understand how to create jobs. I saw his affection for our veterans and understanding of the importance of a strong national defense. It was so inspiring to also be with their four grown children, who are each so successful. For the past seven years, I’m really grateful he’s been a floor leader for Governor Nikki Haley, now our Ambassador to the United Nations where he has advocated for limited government and expanded freedom. It is with great honor that I introduce to you and yield to Congressman Ralph Norman.
06.22.2017	Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that they had received a commitment from House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) to mark up their bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act, which would require the Treasury Department to issue regulations requiring a license for travel to, from, and within North Korea by American citizens, and ban tourist travel by Americans. This new action in the House comes after Otto Warmbier, a college student who was imprisoned by North Korea, tragically passed away days after being returned to his family after a period of captivity. The Schiff-Wilson bill is expected to be considered in Committee in the coming weeks. “The tragic murder of Otto Warmbier at the hands of the North Korean government has made it clear that it is past time that we restrict tourist travel to communist, totalitarian North Korea,” said Rep. Wilson. “I am grateful that Chairman Ed Royce has committed to marking up this important legislation soon, and look forward to having it debated in the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Every penny that goes to the brutal regime is used in the subjugation of its own people and unlawful detention of American citizens. By cutting off this source of income we can protect American families and deny the regime hard currency.” “Time and time again, the North Korean regime has shown that it will treat Americans who visit their nation as hostages to extract concessions from the United States, and put their lives in danger. The tragic death of Otto Warmbier, which is tantamount to the murder of a U.S. citizen by North Korea, brings further into focus the need to go beyond simply warning Americans not to visit this pariah state,” said Rep. Schiff. “I’m pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee is moving expeditiously to take up our bill, which would place meaningful and effective limits on the travel of Americans to this pariah state, and ban tourist travel entirely.” Late last month, Schiff and Wilson introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act. At least seventeen Americans have been detained in the past ten years, despite the State Department strongly warning U.S. citizens against traveling to the DPRK. Currently, at least three Americans remain imprisoned. With heightened tensions between the United States and North Korea, the danger that additional Americans will be detained for political reasons has increased. In addition to security concerns, Western visitors bring with them much needed foreign currency, especially valued in a country facing extensive international sanctions for its illegal nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.
06.22.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness marked up proposals for the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act today: “Today’s markup in the Readiness Subcommittee represents a strong, bipartisan commitment to ensuring that our troops, veterans, and military families have the resources they need to protect America and our allies. For the past few months, we’ve heard from the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marines that they need additional resources, equipment, and training to complete the mission and address our nation’s readiness shortfalls. “While I am grateful for the comprehensive markup, our commitment to readiness must go beyond just this year. By providing sufficient training and resources for FY 2018, we can begin to rectify the years of damage that sequestration has caused. I look forward to bringing this before the full committee next week.” For more information on the Readiness mark, please click here.
06.16.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the President announced a policy change of the United States towards Cuba: “When the previous Administration restored diplomatic relations with Cuba in 2015, they did nothing but enable the Cuban dictatorship—providing them access to funds to continue their totalitarian regime that jails pro-democracy protestors. “By repairing the policies of the prior Administration, President Trump is clear—the United States will not promote doing business with a tyrannical regime that props up the dictatorship at the expense of its people. Hard currency does not reach citizens, but is held by the military, intelligence services, and Communist Party hacks. “The president’s new policy is clear—the United States stands with freedom-loving people around the world and those who support our shared values of free enterprise and democracy.”
06.14.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the shooting this morning at the Republican practice for the Congressional Baseball Game: “My thoughts and prayers today are with House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, staffer Zach Barth, and Capitol Police Officers Crystal Griner and David Bailey. I am hopeful that each will make a speedy recovery. “The shooting this morning was reprehensible, and I am grateful for the bravery of Officer Griner and Officer Bailey. They embodied the courage and selflessness that Capitol Police officers display each and every day. I am also thankful for the Members of Congress and local first responders who treated those wounded after the attack. “I look forward to attending tomorrow’s Congressional Baseball Game, a remarkable annual event that supports local charities, and is a hallmark of bipartisanism and friendship between all Members of Congress and the Senate. Hatred will not prevail as our democracy overcomes adversity.” An earlier version of this release incorrectly spelled Officer Griner's name as Krystal.
06.08.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement following the House passage of the Financial CHOICE Act: “The House of Representatives took a huge step forward today in undoing the regulatory burdens of Dodd-Frank, a reckless overreach into America’s financial laws, which has destroyed jobs. Dodd-Frank has been harmful for American families—driving up the costs of banking and mortgages, while doing nothing to address taxpayer funded bailouts, unaccountable agencies, or “too big to fail,” as jobs are destroyed. The Financial CHOICE Act presents a clear path forward for American families by holding Wall Street accountable, increasing transparency in regulatory agencies, and supporting small businesses, which creates jobs. I am especially grateful that the CHOICE Act repeals the Fiduciary Rule, a burdensome 1,000 page regulation that increases costs and limits choices for families saving for retirement.”
06.08.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement praising the Steering Committee’s selection of Congressman Trey Gowdy to serve as Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: “Since arriving on Capitol Hill in 2010, Congressman Trey Gowdy has been a dedicated defender of transparency and strong advocate for oversight and reform. With his background as a proven prosecutor, he will make an excellent chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and I commend the Steering Committee on their selection.”
06.07.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced the Employee Privacy Protection Act (H.R. 2775) to roll back NLRB policies that jeopardize the privacy of workers and their families. “For too long, the deck has been stacked in favor of union bosses at the expense of workers,” Congressman Wilson said. “One such imbalance, found in the ambush election rule, permits unions to access excessive amounts of personal data about employees and their families before a union election — leaving employees vulnerable to intimidation, threats, and harassment from union organizers. The Employee Privacy Protection Act is an important first step in rolling back the expansive labor regulations of the Obama administration.” The legislation was referred to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, where Congressman Wilson serves as Vice Chairman. Yesterday, Rep. Tim Walberg (MI), chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, also introduced the Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act (H.R. 2776) to protect worker freedom by addressing the NLRB’s ambush election rule and micro-union scheme. House Education and the Workforce Chairwoman Virginia Foxx praised the introduction of both pieces of legislation: “Together, these commonsense proposals will protect worker freedom and ensure fair union elections. The decision to join or not join a union is a personal one, and workers deserve time and privacy as they decide what’s best for them. I want to thank Representatives Walberg and Wilson for championing these proposals, which are the latest step in our efforts to restore fairness and balance to federal labor policies.”
05.26.2017	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) has been joined by Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), and Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) to introduce a bill to support a democratic Hungary and reaffirm the long-standing and mutually-beneficial relationship between the United States and Hungary. This resolution condemns Prime Minister Orban’s attempts to stifle any opposition to his rule and consolidate his power in Hungary – an important ally and NATO member. Prime Minister Orban’s attempts to stifle opposition have included suppressing free speech and assembly, as well as independent thought from universities, civil society groups, and independent think tanks. Law changes and Prime Minister Orban’s remarks have been condemned by the European Union and a number of international organizations including the International Federation for Human Rights, the European Association for the Defense of Human Rights, Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders, and Human Rights Watch. “Hungary has had a strong history of living their democratic values. Recognition of America’s affection for Hungary is the bust of Hungarian patriot Lajos Kossuth, erected in the U.S. Capitol Building, along with Americans always remembering the bravery of Hungarians in the 1956 Revolution beginning the ultimate collapse of the Soviet Empire,” said Congressman Wilson. “It is increasingly disheartening and concerning that Hungary is progressing to a rigid, authoritarian society—one that restricts individual rights and freedoms cherished by all democratic nations. I am grateful to join my colleagues Congressman Seth Moulton, Congresswoman Vicky Hartzler, and Congressman Gregory Meeks in condemning the government of Hungary’s progression to a less free society and standing up for democracy in Eastern Europe and around the world.” “I am proud to have bipartisan support for this resolution,” said Congressman Moulton. “As a member of NATO and important ally, I am concerned about the continued trend towards undemocratic practices in Hungary. I am proud to count 1,500,000 Hungarian-Americans as strong contributors to the economic vibrancy of the US, as well as the social, cultural, and political fabric of our country. This resolution condemns Hungary’s current movement to a less free and democratic society, and urges Hungary’s leadership to reverse laws and policies that curtail individual rights and basic freedoms.” “As Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats and Co-Chair of the EU Caucus, I am dedicated to the U.S.-Hungary relationship and working to address mutual challenges faced by our democracies,” said Congressman Meeks. “This resolution reflects our commitment to encouraging Hungary to remain committed to the democratic standards of the transatlantic project. I look forward to further engagement on these issues.”
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressmen Adam Schiff (CA-28) and Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act, which would require the Treasury Department to issue regulations requiring a license for transactions related to travel to, from, and within North Korea by American citizens. It also provides that no licenses may be issued for tourist travel. "Tourist travel to North Korea does nothing but provide funds to a tyrannical regime—that will in turn be used to develop weapons to threaten the United States and our allies, as I saw firsthand on a rare visit to Pyongyang,” Rep. Wilson said. “Worse, the regime has routinely imprisoned innocent foreign civilians and used them as bargaining chips to gain credibility with the West. We should not enable them any longer—which is why it is critical to carefully regulate travel to North Korea.” “In recent years, there has been an increase in tourist travel to the DPRK by citizens of Western countries, including the United States,” Rep. Schiff said. “With increased tensions in North Korea, the danger that Americans will be detained for political reasons is greater than ever. Given North Korea’s continuing destabilizing behavior and their demonstrated willingness to use American visitors as bargaining chips to extract high level meetings or concessions, it is appropriate for the United States to take steps to control travel to a nation that poses a real and present danger to American interests.” Read bill text here. In the past, North Korea has shown a willingness to use American prisoners to seek diplomatic concessions, including securing visits from former U.S. Presidents and cabinet officials. At least seventeen Americans have been detained in the past ten years, despite the State Department strongly warning U.S. citizens against traveling to the DPRK. Currently, at least four Americans remain imprisoned. In addition to security concerns, Western visitors bring with them much needed foreign currency, especially valued in a country facing extensive international sanctions for its illegal nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.
05.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the Port of Charleston was included in the Army Corps Work Plan: “I am thrilled the Charleston port received funding in the Army Corps Work Plan released today. Deepening the Port of Charleston will help grow the economic impact of the port—which already supports thousands of jobs and extensive industry development in our state and across the southeast. “Having the Port of Charleston in the Army Corps Work Plan is a culmination of a true team effort as the entire community, local leaders, Congressional delegation, and more worked together with the South Carolina Ports Authority to ensure that the port received fair consideration for federal funding for the dredging project. I look forward to working with the community to continue to support the port in the future. The Port of Charleston contributes $53 billion in annual economic impact to the state of South Carolina. In the Midlands and Aiken-Barnwell area, the Port has a $13.6 billion economic impact and supports 1 in 12 jobs in the region.
05.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing the Military Child Educational Freedom Act today. This common sense legislation would allow military families to use tax-free Coverdell Educational Savings Accounts on homeschooling expenses. Click here to read the legislation. Congressman Wilson stated: “Military families face unique struggles—managing frequent moves, disruptions during the school year, and lack of choice in educational opportunities. As more and more families look to homeschooling as a way to standardize education and maintain consistency in transitions, they struggle to manage the costs. This legislation would expand the use of tax-free educational savings accounts for military families for homeschooling costs, in addition to qualified public, private, or religious schools. “By promoting school choice for children of active duty service members, we can support military families and help alleviate concerns faced by military families that can have a negative impact on troop retention.” The legislation is supported by South Carolina State Superintendent of Education Molly Spearman: “I applaud Congressman Wilson on his steadfast support of our nation’s military and military connected families. The Military Child Educational Freedom Act encourages school choice for our active duty men and women and provides them with much needed financial assistance to ensure their students have the tools and resources needed to be successful. I look forward to its passage and the opportunities it will create for families in South Carolina and across our nation.” William Estrada, Director of Federal Relations for the Home School Legal Defense Association applauded the legislation: “HSLDA is pleased to support Congressman Joe Wilson’s strong legislation to support military families who homeschool their children. The Military Child Educational Freedom Act allows homeschool families in the military to save their own money for use in Coverdell Education Savings Accounts. This legislation acknowledges the growing numbers of military families who are choosing to homeschool – and provides a practical way to help them financially. HSLDA urges that the Congress approve this vital bill to help our war fighters and their families who choose to homeschool their children.” The South Carolina Association of Independent Home Schools also praised the legislation: “The South Carolina Association of Independent Home Schools (SCAIHS) commends Congressman Joe Wilson for his continued and unyielding support of both homeschooling and military families. This bill supports parental rights in education and extends that in a very practical way to military families who choose to homeschool, by allowing them to save their own money for use in Coverdell Savings Accounts. Homeschooling is an excellent educational option for military families and this bill makes that choice more accessible.” Click here to read the legislation.
05.23.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his nomination of David Wright to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission: “I am grateful that my long-time friend and constituent David Wright was nominated to serve as Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. David’s extensive background on nuclear energy and past service Chairman of the South Carolina Public Service Commission make him a uniquely qualified for this role. David’s nomination is a fitting culmination of his decades of public service—councilman, mayor, state legislator, and state public service commissioner. “I look forward to David’s confirmation by the Senate, and congratulate him on this well-deserved honor.”
05.23.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson made the following statement on the President’s budget request: "I am encouraged by the President’s fresh approach to the budget process, ultimately achieving a balanced budget. However, I have grave concerns that the budget released by the Administration does not align with the President’s commitments to the American people—especially when it comes to national security and defense—and lets down the people of South Carolina. “The President has spoken often of his commitment to national security and rebuilding our military. Yet, I agree with Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry that this budget does not provide for sufficient resources to train and equip our soldiers—especially as we face more threats to American families than ever before. Furthermore, dramatic cuts to the State Department and support for American allies will weaken our ability to fight terrorism and develop allies in critical regions. “Additionally, the Administration’s budget fails to appreciate the important role South Carolina plays in national security, environmental cleanup, and creating jobs. The budget plans for the elimination of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility, which puts South Carolina and Georgia at risk of being a permanent dump for nuclear waste. MOX is the only facility in the nation that, when completed, would be able to convert weapons-grade plutonium into green fuel. I also remain concerned about broader impacts to the other critical missions at the Savannah River Site. “In the coming days, weeks, and months I look forward to carefully scrutinizing the President’s budget request and working with my colleagues in Congress to exercise our constitutional power of the purse. I am confident that we can put forth a responsible, fiscally conservative budget that supports military families, stands up for national defense, and strengthens our nation’s infrastructure. I believe we have the ability to find common ground with the President, and look forward to working with him for our shared goals for limited government. ###
05.23.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson made the following statement following the attack in Manchester: "Yesterday’s terrorist attack in Manchester is a senseless act of violence against innocent civilians. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. "Just this weekend, President Trump stood with leaders of Arab nations and called for an end to violence and extremism. I am confident that we stand with our allies in the United Kingdom in condemning the attack and support them in bringing those responsible to justice as we achieve victory in the Global War on Terrorism." Congressman Wilson is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Armed Services Committee. He serves as Co-Chair of the U.K. Caucus and Co-Chair of the EU Caucus.
05.21.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement following President Trump's speech in Saudi Arabia: "The President's remarks today were extraordinary--I especially was grateful to hear his call for unity of all people and faiths--Islam, Christianity, and Judiasm; as well as a strong condemnation of Islamic extremism and terrorism." "I appreciate the warm welcome the President received in Saudi Arabia and look forward to the success of the rest of his first overseas visit."
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.), along with U.S. Representatives Joe Wilson (S.C.) and Susan Davis (Calif.), yesterday introduced the bipartisan Military Family Stability Act. The measure would increase flexibility for military families by allowing them to either move early or remain at their current duty station for up to six months while their spouse begins a new assignment. “As the son of a World War II Flying Tiger, a 31-year retiree of the Army Reserves and South Carolina Army National Guard, and the grateful father of four sons who have served in the military, I know firsthand the challenges placed on the families of our service members,” Wilson said. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, I understand how critical the success and happiness of military families are to overall troop readiness and retention. Our common-sense legislation supports military families by giving them greater flexibility to plan for relocation—thereby increasing the overall well-being of military families.” “Families are the backbone of our military,” Blunt said. “Making it easier for them to manage the challenges that come with military life is both a readiness and retention issue. This bill would address one of the major challenges I hear from military families: an ill-timed move that takes a child out of school or prevents a husband or wife from pursuing an educational or career opportunity. I’m encouraged by the bipartisan support we received for this bill last Congress, and I urge my colleagues to work with us to get it to the president’s desk.” “When a service member moves to a new position, it can be an enormous burden for their family to find a new job or start at a new school in the middle of a semester,” Gillibrand said. “The Military Family Stability Act would give our military spouses and children the flexibility they need and deserve to adjust more easily when they have to move. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Senator Blunt, and I will work to get this language into the Defense Authorization bill.” “Military families face many challenges, one of which is multiple moves across the country and even across the world,” Davis said. “Disrupting continuity and routine can increase stress and pressure on family life, leading to recruitment and retention issues. While multiple deployments are part of a career in the military, we can at least give military families the flexibility to determine how a relocation works best for them.” For many military families, the cost of maintaining two residences to allow a spouse or child to finish a school year or complete a job is simply unfeasible. This bill would provide much-needed flexibility for families facing an ill-timed move, at no cost to the Department of Defense. The Military Family Stability Act has garnered widespread support from major veteran service and military family organizations, including: the National Military Family Association, the Military Officers Association of America, the Military Child Education Coalition, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Blue Star Families, the National Guard Association of the United States, and the Veterans Support Foundation. Click here to read the legislation.
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced the South Carolina Peanut Parity Act in the House of Representatives today, critical legislation that would grant South Carolina representation on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Peanut Standards Board. Congressman Mark Sanford (SC-01), Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03), Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-04), Congressman James Clyburn (SC-06), and Congressman Tom Rice (SC-07) are original co-sponsors of the legislation. Congressman Joe Wilson stated: “Since the Peanut Standards Board was created in 2002, South Carolina’s peanut farmers have been without a voice in the U.S. Department of Agriculture, despite being the nation’s fourth largest peanut-producing state. This legislation would rectify an imbalance on the Peanut Standards Board and support South Carolina peanut farmers. Peanuts are so appreciated in South Carolina that the state legislature designated the boiled peanut as the state’s official snack.” Harry Ott, president of the South Carolina Farm Bureau stated: “This bill would give South Carolina peanut farmers a voice on the Standards Board that they are currently denied. We wholeheartedly support Congressman Wilson’s efforts to ensure equal representation for South Carolina peanut producers." Congressman Tom Rice stated: "South Carolina produces eight percent of peanuts in America, making our state fourth in production, yet our farmers still don’t have a seat at the table to provide feedback and insight into the industry. It’s only fair to fix this disparity and ensure South Carolina peanut farmers are as equally represented as farmers from every other peanut-producing state.” Click here to read the text of the South Carolina Peanut Party Act. Background In the 2002 Farm Bill, the U.S. Department of Agriculture established the Peanut Standards Board, a board that advises the Secretary of Agriculture and Department on peanut quality and handling standards. The board consists of 18 members who represent three regions: the Southeast (Alabama, Florida, and Georgia), the Southwest (New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas), and Virginia/North Carolina. Each region is represented with three producer seats and three industry representative seats, and members serve staggered three year terms. By law, members of the Peanut Standards Board must be from a state in one of the three designated regions. South Carolina farmers produce over eight percent of the nation’s peanuts. As a state, South Carolina is the fourth largest peanut producing state. The boiled peanut was designated by the state legislature as South Carolina’s official state snack in 2006. ###
05.17.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce participated in a markup on the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. Congressman Wilson spoke in support of the legislation. Watch Congressman Wilson’s remarks here. Congressman Wilson’s remarks as prepared for delivery: I am grateful to Chairwoman Virginia Foxx and Representative Glenn Thompson for their leadership on this crucial issue. Career and technical education provides an excellent opportunity to promote advanced educational opportunities aligned with the needs of the workforce and diminishing the skills gap that has developed throughout our nation. South Carolina has been especially successful in using career and technical education programs to partner with businesses and create jobs. One example of a successful partnership is between Boeing and ReadySC, a division of the South Carolina Technical College System. Boeing and ReadySC have cooperated at each point in the educational process—working together to develop curriculum and provide materials for a simulated work environment. The success of the partnership is clear—over 4,500 ReadySC graduates have been hired as Boeing employees, with another 2,100 hired by area contractors. I appreciate the leadership of Boeing SC’s General Manager Joan Robinson-Berry and the entire South Carolina Boeing team in advancing these programs that support jobs for meaningful lives. Boeing is just one of many successful partnerships of career and technical education programs in South Carolina to include Michelin, MTU, BMW, Volvo, and more. I am grateful to support H.R. 2353, Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act and urge its passage. ###
05.15.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) participated in a roundtable with the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) at Café Strudel, an NFIB member business, in West Columbia today: “I was grateful for the opportunity to meet with small business owners from the Midlands today and hear about their role in creating jobs and serving their community. I also appreciated hearing about the challenges small businesses face, and discussing how Congress can support their efforts to create jobs. “I will continue to work in Congress to support small businesses by cutting regulations, reforming the tax code, and repealing Obamacare to promote jobs.” Congressman Wilson speaks with NFIB members. NFIB is South Carolina’s and the nation’s leading small-business association. To learn more, visit www.NFIB.com/SC and follow @NFIB_SC on Twitter. ###
05.10.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Ed Young: "Former Congressman Ed Young of Florence was a southern gentleman who will be cherished as a courageous pioneer in the development of the two-party system. As lifelong family friends we especially appreciate his achievements as a World War Two hero, dedicated family man, church leader, business developer creating jobs, farmer, and public servant."
05.10.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement following the news of FBI Director Comey: "Given the recent controversy surrounding the Director and his decisions, I fully respect the President's decision to terminate him and commend Attorney General Jeff Sessions for his courageous recommendation. I know the president will select a qualified replacement that will restore the public trust in the FBI."
05.04.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement following the House passage of the American Health Care Act: “Sadly, Obamacare is collapsing—more and more insurers are exiting the marketplace, leaving millions of Americans without options for health care. The time to act is now—the American Health Care Act will use free-market principles and tax credits to lower health care costs for all families, and no one can be denied coverage or charged higher premiums if they maintain their coverage. “After a thorough examination of the AHCA and its merits, I support the American Health Care Act because it would promote small business jobs, restore choices in health care plans, and repeal harmful taxes and regulations that destroy jobs.”
05.02.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the House Floor this afternoon in support of H.R. 1644, the Korean Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act. An excerpt from his remarks follows: “After eight years of “strategic patience,” I appreciate the strong leadership of President Trump and his Administration, with the Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. “It is clear that the regime in North Korea will only respond to strength—and this sanctions package would effectively target the regime and any other individuals who would do business with North Korea, especially in the shipping and financial industries.” Last month, the House of Representatives passed Rep. Wilson’s resolution condemning the regime in North Korea for their ballistic missile tests. The Congressman also recently participated in a panel at the Hudson Institute about the North Korean ballistic missile program. Watch Rep. Wilson’s floor remarks here. Read Rep. Wilson’s full remarks as prepared for delivery below: Thank you Chairman Ed Royce for yielding. I appreciate your determined leadership on this important issue of national security, protecting American families. I am in strong support of H.R. 1644, the Korean Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act. In 2003, I traveled to North Korea with Ranking Member Eliot Engel, a bipartisan delegation, where we saw first-hand the tyranny and oppression of the communist regime. Last month, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H. Res. 92, a bipartisan resolution I introduced condemning the regime in North Korea for their recent ballistic missiles and calling for the consideration of all available sanctions. Since then, North Korea has continued testing missiles and released yet another propaganda video—this one simulating the destruction of American troops, aircraft, warships, and even the U.S. Capitol building. After eight years of “strategic patience” I appreciate the strong leadership of President Trump and his Administration, with the Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley and the Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. It is clear that the regime in North Korea will only respond to strength—and this sanctions package would effectively target the regime and any other individuals who would do business with North Korea, especially in the shipping and financial industries. I appreciate the extraordinary leadership of Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engel on this legislation, and urge my colleagues to vote in support.
05.01.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) received the Award for Conservative Excellence from the American Conservative Union today. This award recognizes the Members of Congress who have consistently upheld conservative principles, including limited government, free markets, and a strong national defense. Wilson holds a lifetime rating of over 92 percent from the ACU. “I am grateful to receive the Award for Conservative Excellence from the American Conservative Union, the oldest and largest conservative grassroots organization in the country. Throughout my service in Congress, I will continue to advocate for conservative values of limited government and expanded freedom.” Congressman Wilson was awarded a 92 percent for 2016. To view the full rankings and criteria, please click here.
04.27.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the President’s tax reform plan that was released today: “I am grateful to work with President Donald Trump and House Republicans to provide tax reform that will create jobs, simplify the tax code, and growth the economy. I am very encouraged by proposals to provide critical tax relief to middle-income families by doubling the standard deduction and reducing the number of tax brackets. Additionally, I look forward to providing strong tax reform for American businesses—decreasing the tax rate and making America competitive in the global economy to promote jobs. “I am confident that by working together, we can deliver comprehensive, pro-growth tax reform for American families.”
04.27.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after joining President Donald Trump as the President signed the Education Federalism Executive Order: “I am grateful that President Donald Trump shares my commitment to restoring educational decisions to those who know best—state and local governments. For too long, unelected Washington bureaucrats have instituted top-down educational mandates that failed to consider the needs of individual students and communities. I look forward to working with Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to continue our work to restore educational decisions will be returned to those who know the needs of students best—parents, teachers, administrators, locally elected school boards, and state Boards of Education.” Watch coverage of the executive order signing below. Congressman Joe Wilson is Vice-Chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Last Congress, he introduced the Local Control of Education Act. Read more about his work to remove federal overreach in education here.
04.26.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified before the House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment about the importance of completing the licensing process on Yucca Mountain. From his testimony: “I hope we recognize a national perspective when it comes to managing and storing nuclear waste. Today, there are currently 121 communities across 39 states that are grappling with the limitations of storing nuclear waste while our country lacks a permanent geological repository... Each of the 121 communities has been forced to store nuclear waste while they wait for the federal government to honor its promise by providing permanent storage at Yucca Mountain. “We have a duty to work towards a permanent repository for nuclear waste.” Watch Congressman Wilson’s Testimony here. Chairman John Shimkus made the following statement: “I want to thank Congressman Wilson for bringing a national security perspective to this debate. The reality is that defense nuclear facilities across the country helped win WWII, and later the Cold War, on behalf of our entire nation – not just the states still holding the legacy waste from those activities. The federal government, on behalf of all Americans, has both a fiscal and moral responsibility to expedite the environmental cleanup of facilities like the Savannah River Site. I appreciate Congressman Wilson’s testimony highlighting these important points, and I’m pleased his legislation is included in the discussion draft the subcommittee is considering today.” Read Congressman Wilson’s full testimony as prepared for delivery: Chairman John Shimkus, Ranking Member Paul Tonko, thank you for having me here today. I am grateful to have the opportunity to testify before Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Environment. As the former Deputy General Counsel of the Department of Energy during the Reagan Administration serving with Secretary Jim Edwards, I know the Department has very competent personnel and we are fortunate for the leadership of Secretary Rick Perry. In January, I introduced the Sensible Nuclear Waste Disposition Act and appreciate that it has been included in the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendment Act of 2017. The Sensible Nuclear Waste Disposition Act is common-sense legislation that simply requires that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission make a licensing decision, one way or the other, about Yucca Mountain before the Department of Energy can consider other options for long-term waste disposal. I appreciate the concerns of Nevada, while I hope we recognize a national perspective when it comes to managing and storing nuclear waste. Today, there are currently 121 communities across 39 states that are grappling with the limitations of storing nuclear waste while our country lacks a permanent geological repository. Communities in my home state of South Carolina, in the Chairman’s state of Illinois, the Ranking Member’s state of New York—in the home states of the majority of members of the committee all store nuclear material. Each of the 121 communities has been forced to store nuclear waste while they wait for the federal government to honor its promise by providing permanent storage at Yucca Mountain. While the nuclear material is currently being safely stored across the country, we are in desperate need of a long-term, viable solution. Having a single, permanent repository for high-level nuclear waste is critical for our national security. Right now, in the absence of a permanent repository, nuclear material is stored all over the country—making it difficult and costly to secure. Having a single location, 1,000 feet underground, is far more effective and secure for the environment with one location instead of 121 across the nation. Additionally, completing the licensing process for Yucca Mountain is fiscally responsible. The federal government has dedicated enormous resources to completing the nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain. American taxpayers have invested over $3.7 billion into Yucca Mountain. Additionally, energy utility ratepayers from across the country have contributed over $30 billion to the Nuclear Waste Fund which can only be used towards the construction and operation of Yucca Mountain, with citizens from South Carolina, Illinois, New York, and more each having over $1 billion invested. Starting over with another project would cost billions from taxpayers and ratepayers alike, and would take decades to complete—leaving 121 sites across the country as de facto dumping grounds for nuclear waste. In 2010, the previous Administration halted the licensing process for Yucca Mountain for political reasons. We should not allow political reasons to continue to impede progress. Rather, we should allow the facts to speak for themselves, like the fact that officials in Nye County, Nevada, where Yucca Mountain is located, support the repository. Countless, non-partisan, fact-based studies have determined that the underground geological repository of Yucca Mountain far exceeds the highest safety ratings. I am confident that the rigorous, fact-based, non-partisan examination by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will result in a favorable result for Yucca Mountain’s license. I am equally confident that the thoroughness of the process will allay the technical and scientific concerns of my colleagues from Nevada. I urge the Committee to pass the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017, to ensure we see the licensing process on Yucca Mountain to completion before abandoning it for any other alternative. The federal government should finish what they started—or, at the very least—should make an official decision on Yucca before spending billions of dollars on a duplicative facility. In addition to making progress on a permanent repository, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act should consider amending the way we classify nuclear material by updating our standard to classify waste by composition rather than point of origin. This would expand the Department of Energy’s ability to designate waste that was previously only eligible for Yucca Mountain to other disposition sites. While that doesn’t eliminate the urgency of completing Yucca Mountain, it does expedite the environmental cleanup mission at dozens of defense nuclear facilities across the country. I am grateful that my constituent, Aiken County Council Member Chuck Smith testified in support of the reclassification of nuclear waste before the subcommittee in 2015. We have a duty to work towards a permanent repository for nuclear waste. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act does an excellent job of strengthening the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and advancing our shared goals of protecting national security and promoting our national environmental clean-up mission. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify before you today, and thank you for your time and attention.
04.17.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the 2017 Congressional Art Competition today: “I am grateful to announce that the office is now accepting submissions for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. For 35 years now, the inspiring art from students across the country have decorated the U.S. Capitol—showcasing the incredible talent in every Congressional District. “South Carolina’s Second Congressional District is home to so many incredible young artists. I encourage all high school students to participate and I look forward to seeing the entries.” Wilson is a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and is a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus. He served as chairman of the Congressional Art Competition last year. Entries for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition are due to Congressman Wilson’s district offices in the Midlands or Aiken-Barnwell by close of business on May 1, 2017. Criteria for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition is available online at www.joewilson.house.gov/art-competition. Questions? Contact Josh Grant in the Midlands office at 803-939-0041.
04.11.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) held a town hall at Aiken Technical College yesterday, answering questions on a range of issues, including national defense, health care, North Korea, and immigration. Congressman Wilson clearly outlined issues he’s consistently advocated for throughout his service in Congress for limited government and expanded freedom. After a brief congressional update, the Congressman took questions that constituents submitted on index cards. The cards were drawn randomly. Constituents that did not have their questions read during the event will receive a written response to their question from the Congressman. On National Defense: Question: How can we get our defense the budget they need? The men and women, they defend us, deserve our support. “By having continuing resolutions, it puts our military in a situation where they cannot plan day to day, month to month. It particularly affects the equipment they have so that they can be proficient to protect the American people. “As Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, I am working for a full budget for the Defense Department so that we can have the ability to provide for the defense of the American people.” On Health Care: Question: The next question simply says health care. “The question of health care…we need to replace Obamacare. The best way to have better health care is to reduce government involvement.” On North Korea: Question: What should be done by the President and by Congress to combat the threat North Korean intercontinental ballistic missiles? “The whole concentration of their dictatorship has been to now build a miniaturized nuclear capability and build ICBMs which would hit the United States… “I have been working with a resolution last week—it was bipartisan. We came up with proposals to further sanction the dictatorship in North Korea…It actually passed with bipartisan support, 398 to 3.” On Immigration: Question: Immigrant families are being torn apart across this country. What are you doing to protect them? “In my law practice, I have represented persons who have come to the United States legally…I have worked with persons to be here because we know immigrants who are legal immigrants who come are very beneficial. I’m so excited as I see the success of immigrant families who come to the United States legally.”
04.03.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson’s bipartisan resolution condemning North Korea and calling for all available sanctions passed the House tonight by a vote of 398 to 3. Earlier today, Congressman Wilson spoke on the House Floor urging its passage: “I visited North Korea on a Congressional delegation in 2003 with House Foreign Affairs Ranking Member Eliot Engel. While there, we witnessed a regime obsessed with appearance and preservation to the detriment of their own citizens. After seeing the devastation of the people at the hands of the totalitarian regime, I have been even more invested in the need to hold the regime in Pyongyang accountable for threatening neighbors. “In early February, I introduced this bipartisan resolution in response to North Korea’s threat to test an intercontinental ballistic missile. Their threat is concerning because an ICBM has the capability of reaching the West Coast of the United States. “The rapid pace of North Korea’s growing offensive nuclear weapons development is alarming to the United States and our allies. In just a few short months, North Korea has appeared to successfully test an ICBM, launched a satellite, tested four simultaneous ballistic missiles—three of which landed in Japanese territorial waters, had a failed missile launch, and tested a ballistic missile engine. The regime also claims it is planning another nuclear test for later this month. Sadly revealing, the regime in North Korea recently released a propaganda video depicting a missile striking a U.S. aircraft carrier and calling for the destruction of the American people. “North Korea is rapidly advancing their capabilities, working to miniaturize nuclear technology to deliver a nuclear weapon anywhere in the world. Sadly, eight years of “strategic patience” only enabled the dictatorship. We cannot afford to stand by as this regime grows in power and influence—threatening the United States and our allies. “I am grateful that President Donald Trump is taking the regime and its threats seriously. Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson recently visited our allies in South Korea and Japan, and US Ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, has led the efforts for strengthening international sanctions against North Korea. “The Administration has also demonstrated peace through strength by backing up their commitments to our allies with action. We’ve begun deploying the THAAD missile defense system, recently resumed our annual military training exercises with South Korea, and deployed attack drones to support our service members stationed in the region. “As we work to check the growing influence and missile capability of North Korea, Congress too has a vital role to play—starting by passing H.Res 92, to forcefully condemn North Korea for these recent actions and to call for the consideration of all available sanctions on the regime and the individuals or businesses that sustain it. We are clear – the United States must stand strong against North Korea for American families and South Korean allies. “I appreciate the consideration of H.Res. 92, and I urge my colleagues to vote in support.” Watch his remarks here | Read the resolution here.
03.30.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing a resolution in the House supporting civics education in primary and secondary schools: “I’m grateful to introduce this resolution today to highlight the importance of civics education for students in South Carolina and across the country. By encouraging the advancement of curriculum on government and American history, we can bring Congress to the classroom and engage young Americans in discussions of current events and the democratic process. I still cherish my dedicated high school civics teacher, Miss Sara Bookhart, who inspired me to serve the public.” Read the resolution here
03.29.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously passed H.Res. 92, a resolution Congressman Wilson introduced to condemn North Korea’s ballistic missile program and calling for the applicability of all available sanctions: “North Korea’s increasingly aggressive actions mean it is imperative that Congress send a strong, bipartisan message—testing ballistic missiles and expanding nuclear capabilities will not be tolerated by the United States. As one of only two Members of Congress who have visited Pyongyang, I have seen firsthand the destitution and persecution of the North Korean citizens who deserve to live in such a dynamic democracy as South Korea with its vibrant capitalist success. “I am grateful that the House Foreign Affairs Committee positively reported my resolution, and I look forward to it being considered on the House Floor.” Congressman Wilson also spoke in the committee urging the passage of the resolution. Watch his remarks here. Watch Rep. Wilson’s Remarks Here. View H.Res 92 here.
03.27.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the names of his nominees to the United States Military Academies for the class of 2021. After an extensive application process, the candidates were interviewed by an independent panel, whose members include retired military officers, ROTC leaders, and academy alumni from the Second Congressional District. “These remarkable students have demonstrated their commitment to their country and their community. Each has excelled in school, service, and has been a positive reflection on their community. “As a veteran and the father of four sons who have served in the military, I know firsthand the benefits of military service. It is uplifting and inspiring to see so many young adults with a strong desire to serve their country. “Congratulations to these distinguished young men and women for receiving the honor of a nomination to our Military Academies.” U.S. Naval Academy Paul Bolchoz, Cardinal Newman High School Katherine Boyle, Irmo High School Kristopher Crabtree, Dreher High School Jordan Gambrell, North Augusta High School Robert Gardiner, Dutch Fork High School Raven Heath, Richland Northeast High School Louis Hunter, Northside Christian Academy Kathleen Konicki, Cardinal Newman High School Elijah Lake, Blythewood High School Edward Murphy, Midland Valley High School Megan Reardon, Ridge View High School James Rogers, AC Flora High School Matthew Watford, Heathwood Hall Kyle Williams, Lexington High School Kristina Wuchenich, River Bluff High School U.S. Air Force Academy Paul Bolchoz, Cardinal Newman High School Katherine Boyle, Irmo High School Zachary Gabert, Blythewood High School Robert King, Cardinal Newman High School Luke Marazzo, Spring Valley High School Michael Osmanski, Pelion High School Connor Slattery, River Bluff High School Andrew Wright, Irmo High School U.S. Military Academy Jackson Brownfield, Chapin High School Alexander Chalgren, Dutch Fork High School Zachary Gabert, Blythewood High School Harrison Hemminghaus, Blythewood High School Robert King, Cardinal Newman High School Edward Murphy, Midland Valley High School Megan Reardon, Ridge View High School Andrew Wright, Irmo High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Zachary Gabert, Blythewood High School Connor Slattery, River Bluff High School Any constituent seeking a Congressional nomination in the future or for more information regarding the application process should visit Congressman Wilson’s website here.
03.21.2017	On Monday, March 20, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) joined Rebeccah Heinrichs, and Arthur Herman, fellows at the Hudson Institute, for a discussion on the growing threat North Korea poses to the United States and our allies. The panel discussed the growing threat of North Korea’s medium to long range missiles, capabilities of conventional weapons, and their rapidly progressing nuclear program. They also outlined the importance of missile defense to deter North Korea, specifically the THAAD missile defense system and the Boost-Phase Interceptor system. Congressman Wilson is the sponsor of H.Res 92 – a resolution condemning North Korea’s recent missile tests and calling for the application of all available sanctions. His bipartisan legislation currently has 114 co-sponsors. Key Quotes from the Panel Discussion: Congressman Joe Wilson: “Strategic patience, benign neglect—it only encouraged the dictatorship to proceed with missile development.” “In February of last year, North Korea actually successfully launched a satellite—a crucial part of developing ICBMs…a clear and present danger that must be addressed.” “Peace through strength—that’s how you win… Strategic patience led to the extraordinary level of instability we have today.” Hudson Senior Fellow Arthur Herman: “North Korea’s missile program, combined with its nuclear weapons program, poses an increasingly urgent threat, not just to the United States, but to peace in Asia…” “I think with North Korea, we face what is perhaps the number one national security priority for this new administration.” Hudson Fellow Rebeccah Heinrichs: “[North Korea] is persistent, and they are determined to threaten the United States with a nuclear weapon.” “Ground-based Missile Defense system is able to handle the current North Korea threat.” Watch the full event here. On Tuesday, Rep. Joe Wilson also gave a speech on the House Floor recognizing the timeliness of the panel discussion and thanking the Hudson Institute for hosting it. You can watch the remarks here.
03.21.2017	Today, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce honored Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) with the annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-growth policies in the second session of the 114th Congress. Congressman Wilson received a special distinction for his perfect score from the Chamber this year. “I am grateful to receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce today,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “I will continue to work in Congress to support businesses that create jobs by cutting regulations, supporting American manufacturers, and promoting our infrastructure.” Senior Executive Vice President of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Suzanne Clark presents Rep. Joe Wilson with the Spirit of Enterprise Award. “Businesses of all shapes and sizes need sound, commonsense policy in place in order to get off the ground, grow, and succeed,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes those members of Congress who have done what’s right for our friends, family, and neighbors running businesses across the country. We applaud these legislators for their commitment to free enterprise and economic growth.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s annual scorecard, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. Click here to view the scorecard
03.08.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the United States deployed the THAAD missile defense system to South Korea: “The regime in North Korea is growing increasingly irresponsible and aggressive, conducting missile tests and continuing to develop their nuclear weapons program. “Deploying the THAAD system sends a clear message—the United States will address this aggressive action by North Korea, promoting peace through strength. We are committed to our regional defenses against this unstable regime, and stand in support of our allies, especially the people of South Korea and Japan.” Rep. Wilson introduced legislation in February calling for increased sanctions against North Korea and condemning their recent missile tests. His legislation, H.Res. 92, also urges the deployment of the THAAD missile defense system to South Korea. It currently has over 90 co-sponsors and is before the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
03.08.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified before the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee today requesting support for the missions at the Savannah River Site and urging the completion of Yucca Mountain. Watch Congressman Wilson's Testimony here Congressman Wilson's remarks as prepared for delivery: “I am grateful for the opportunity to meet with you today. First, I would like to thank Chairman Mike Simpson for his leadership as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water. “I am grateful to represent South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, a diverse and thriving community that is home to vital national security and environmental cleanup missions. Today, I will specifically address the necessity of fully resourcing the missions at the Savannah River Site in the Aiken-Barnwell community. “The Savannah River Site is home to the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX), a valuable part of our non-proliferation and nuclear security. The MOX facility is currently 70 percent complete and, when completed, will be the nation’s only facility that can convert weapons-grade plutonium into green fuel. Completing MOX is a secure and sustainable option for weapons grade plutonium, and brings the United States back in compliance with our international nonproliferation agreements. I am confident that after examining MOX with clear, unbiased data, it will be apparent that completing MOX is in the best interest of our national security. “The Savannah River National Laboratory conducts cutting edge research, supporting our nation’s ability to produce tritium, to monitor and detect capabilities for nuclear non-proliferation, and to conduct nuclear forensics. It researches and provides improved technologies for safely storing and transporting high-level radioactive waste. Additionally, the Laboratory continues to make advancements in electrical grid security and studying electromagnetic pulses (EMPs). “The Savannah River Site is home to other critical Department of Energy nuclear security and environmental cleanup missions as it safely processes Cold War era nuclear materials into stable materials that can be stored until disposal. Last year, the Site completed construction of the Salt Waste Processing facility, greatly enhancing the speed and efficiency of the remediation of high level waste. Other critical facilities include H-Canyon, the nation’s only production scale nuclear chemical separations plant, and both K and L areas, which safely store nuclear materials. All of the missions at the Savannah River site are vital to bolstering our national nuclear capability and safe environmental stewardship. “Since 1952, the Savannah River Site has played a critical role in processing and disposing of high-level defense waste. However, the Savannah River Site was never intended to be a long-term option for high level waste—and lacks the ability to serve as a permanent repository. The only viable permanent repository is Yucca Mountain. “I strongly urge the Appropriations Committee to allocate funding specifically for the completion of Yucca Mountain license application. Abandoning Yucca Mountain in favor of a non-existent alternative would leave communities across the United States, including the South Carolina-Georgia Central Savannah River region, to bear the burden of storing nuclear waste the federal government has promised to remove. Additionally, American ratepayers have put enormous resources to completing the nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain. I believe that the completion of the license application will highlight the technical merits and alleviate any environmental concerns. “I appreciate the difficult decision the Committee must make as we begin the appropriations process for fiscal year 2018. Thank you for your time, and I urge you to continue supporting the vital missions at the Savannah River Site and at Yucca Mountain. “Thank you.”
03.08.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after voting in favor of the 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill: “Today’s vote on the FY17 Defense Appropriations bill was a critical first step in starting the process of rebuilding our military. As Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, I appreciate that this bill prioritizes readiness—specifically investing in training, equipment and personnel.”
03.07.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified before the House Budget Committee today, requesting resources for South Carolina’s critical national security and environmental cleanup missions at Fort Jackson in the Midlands and at the Savannah River Site in the Aiken-Barnwell area. Watch a video of his testimony here. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “I am grateful for the opportunity to meet with you today. First, I would like to congratulate Chairman Diane Black for being named chair of the Budget Committee and thank her for her leadership of this Committee. As we face difficult economic times, I appreciate the dedicated efforts of the Chairman, Ranking Member, and Members of the Committee. “I am grateful to represent the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, a diverse and thriving district on the I-20 corridor, that is home to a few of our nation’s most critical national security and environmental cleanup missions—Fort Jackson in the Midlands and the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site in the Aiken-Barnwell area. These unique missions contribute to our state and nation in countless, tangible ways. Each of these installations provides unique services to our country and requires our support. “Fort Jackson is critical part of our national security and military readiness. As the largest Initial Entry Training Center for the U.S. Army, Fort Jackson’s primary mission is to train thousands of disciplined, motivated service members –training 53 percent of the Army’s Basic Combat Training load and 56 percent of the women entering the Army each year. At a time when our nation faces critical threats around the world, from ISIL to North Korea and Iran, the mission at Fort Jackson has never been more vital to achieving peace through strength. “Additionally, Fort Jackson supports other critical missions, including the U.S. Army Soldier Support Institute, the Army Chaplaincy Center, the National Center for Credibility Assessment, and the Army’s Drill Sergeant School. The impact of the base positively impacts the surrounding community as well, employing nearly 3,500 civilians and providing services for 46,000 retirees and their family members. “A little more than an hour down the I-20 corridor from Fort Jackson is the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site in the Aiken-Barnwell community. This site is a national asset, responsible for supporting our nuclear weapons missions and conducting cutting edge research. “The Savannah River Site is home to the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX), a critical component of our national security and environmental clean-up mission. Currently 70 percent completed, when finished, the MOX facility will be able to take weapons-grade plutonium and reprocess it into a green fuel—a more secure and sustainable option than potentially placing South Carolina as a plutonium dumping ground. It is imperative that we continue funding this vital mission for our nation’s nuclear weapons mission. “In addition to MOX, the Savannah River Site is home to many other vital Department of Energy nuclear security and environmental cleanup missions. Last year, the Site celebrated a milestone, completing construction of the Salt Waste Processing facility which, along with the Defense Waste Processing Facility, will greatly enhance the speed and efficiency of the remediation of high level waste. Other critical facilities include H-Canyon, the nation’s only production scale nuclear chemical separations plant, and both K and L areas, which safely store nuclear materials. All of the missions at the Savannah River site are vital to bolstering our national nuclear capability and safe environmental stewardship. “Additionally, the Savannah River Site conducts critical research through the Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL). The Laboratory supports our nation’s ability to produce tritium, and to monitor and detect capabilities for nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear forensics. It also enhances technologies for the nuclear clean-up mission at SRS and around the country, including ways to safely store and transport high-level radioactive waste. “I respect and appreciate the difficult choices this Committee must make in the coming days and weeks. As you begin the Fiscal Year 2018 budgetary process, I ask that you consider the men and women involved in the critical national security missions being carried out at Fort Jackson as well as the Savannah River Site. These individuals are dedicated to their country and putting service before self. “I urge you to continue your support for the unique missions at Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site that keep American families safe. “Finally, as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, I urge the Chairman and the Committee to support a level of funding that will adequately provide for our military and provide for the national defense. The first priority of the federal government is to provide for the common defense, and I echo the calls of House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry and Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain in calling for $640 billion to ensure that our service members are trained, equipped, and resourced to complete their mission. “Thank you.” ###
03.07.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after House Republicans introduced the American Health Care Act: “Families in the Second Congressional District and across the country have seen firsthand how Obamacare has failed—destroying jobs, increasing premiums, spiraling deductibles, and lack of health care choices. We need a real solution that gives everyone access to quality, affordable insurance. “I am grateful that yesterday, House Republicans introduced legislation that puts American people in charge of their health care – not the federal government. Our bill specifically protects those with pre-existing conditions, allows young adults to remain on their parent’s insurance until they are 26, and provides a stable transition to our system of lower costs and increased options. “I encourage all of my constituents to go to readthebill.gop to hear how we are simultaneously repealing and replacing Obamacare with a health care system that works.”
03.03.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was grateful to present Joseph Moore, of Lexington, with the Congressional Gold Medal for his service in the First Special Services Force (FSSF) during World War II. Mr. Moore and other members of the elite U.S.-Canadian force were volunteers, boldly putting service before self as they undertook dangerous missions to initiate liberation of Europe at Anzio, Italy. Joining him at the presentation ceremony is his wife of 68 years, Melveline, his daughter, Frances McWilliams, and his sons Charles, Walter, Gary, and Roy.
02.28.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump’s Joint Address to Congress: “President Donald Trump’s first Joint Address to Congress clearly promoted a positive vision for America centered on creating jobs and rebuilding our military. I was grateful to hear the President’s optimistic agenda – upholding his promises to the American people to repeal regulations and revive our economy, support working parents, reform our tax code to reduce taxes to create jobs, repeal and replace Obamacare with an affordable, accessible alternative, and care for our veterans. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, I especially appreciate hearing his commitment to rebuilding our military, providing our military with the resources they need, and affirming our nation’s support of NATO to promote peace through strength.”
02.17.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after reintroducing the Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act: “For too long, the Survivor Benefit Plan – Dependency and Indemnity Compensation offset has been an unfair penalty that cuts earned benefits to military survivors. Our nation’s military personnel risk their lives to defend our nation and our freedoms—they should be able to trust that the benefits they designate for their spouses and families will provide for them. “Congress has considered a repeal of the Survivor Benefit Plan offset for over 12 years in six separate bills—it is past time that we address this discrepancy. Families of our fallen heroes are counting on us.” Congressman Joe Wilson is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and is a past chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel. The Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act would eliminate the “Widow’s tax,” a current policy that requires the surviving spouses of members killed in the line of duty or from a service-connected cause to forfeit the Survivor Benefit Pension annuity. Current policy allows for up to $1000 per month to be off-set from a surviving spouse’s pay—a substantial burden for many military families which could be up to a $12,000 annual reduction of deserved benefits. Read the legislation here.
02.16.2017	Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Ranking Member of the Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Subcommittee, Congressman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), today announced the introduction of the bipartisan Congressional European Union (EU) Caucus for the 115th Congress. Reps. Wilson and Meeks will serve as co-chairs and to this date, they count fifteen other United States Representatives as members of the caucus. Regarding the introduction of the EU caucus, the co-chairs Wilson and Meeks released the following joint statement: “We are grateful to co-chair the Bipartisan Congressional European Union (EU) Caucus during the 115th Congress. “The European Union plays a significant role in safeguarding and promoting our shared values of freedom and democracy across Europe and around the world. Our shared aspiration for enduring European peace and prosperity is undoubtedly in the interests of the United States and our European friends, creating jobs. “We thank the other Members for joining us on this bipartisan caucus and we look forward to working with them to strengthen our partnerships with our allies in the EU, to make the world a safer place, promoting peace through strength.”
02.14.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing the Cyberattack Standards Study Act today, critical legislation that directs the Director of National Intelligence to conduct a study on cyberattack standards of measurement: “Cyberattacks have the unique ability to penetrate and disrupt personal, business, and government systems—yet there is no clear, unified measurement for assessing their impact across multiple agencies or jurisdictions. Attacks have levels, from nuisance to act of war. “Recent cyberattacks have made it clear that we need to bring together the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Secretary of Defense to conduct a study to define how to quantify a cyber incident and how to determine an appropriate response.” Wilson had a previous version of this legislation included as an amendment to the Intelligence Authorization Act which passed the House of Representatives but was not considered by the Senate. Read the legislation here.
02.07.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced legislation today to restrict funding for the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization with Senator Tom Cotton (R, AR). “Today I joined Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) to introduce legislation that would reinforce our Constitutional principles and restore the responsible Bush-era policies on the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty,” Wilson said. “Congress never ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, so it is only logical that we should no longer fund the preparatory commission for its implementation. This bill will leave in place only the funding for the international monitoring system aspect of the preparatory commission – which improves our global nuclear detection capability. Nuclear deterrence is a critical part of protecting American families, and this legislation protects that capability.” Senator Tom Cotton introduced the companion legislation in the Senate: “It makes no sense to pay people to advocate for a treaty we’ve rejected. Congressman Wilson and I agree these taxpayer dollars would be far better spent on other ideas, like modernizing our nuclear arsenal,” Senator Cotton said. Read H.R. 903, to restrict funding for the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization here.
02.06.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced a bipartisan resolution today condemning North Korea’s development of intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and calling for the United States to apply all available sanctions: “For too long, the dictatorship in North Korea has become emboldened—testing nuclear weapons, but also testing and expanding their ballistic missile capability. Just last month, North Korea announced their plans to test an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). “It is time to stand up to North Korea’s aggression--an ICBM with a nuclear warhead is a direct threat to the United States and our allies, especially South Korea. This resolution is a key first step towards achieving peace through strength.” Read the legislation here. The bipartisan legislation is co-sponsored by: Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06), Rep. Mike Rogers (AL-03), Rep. Ted Yoho (FL-03), and Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30). Tomorrow, Rep. Wilson will discuss his legislation at the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s hearing on Countering the North Korean Threat: New Steps in U.S. Policy.
02.06.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the Trump administration’s announcement of new sanctions on Iran: “I applaud President Donald Trump’s swift action to hold the regime in Iran accountable for testing another intercontinental ballistic missile on Sunday. Imposing strong sanctions against individuals and businesses makes it clear that the United States will stand with our allies against Iranian aggression. “This is what peace through strength looks like. “I was grateful to work in a bipartisan manner with Seth Moulton to address this issue in the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act after Iran tested a ballistic missile that had ‘Israel must be wiped off the Earth’ written in Hebrew on it.” Wilson condemned the Iranian ballistic missile test earlier this week.
02.02.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after attending the National Prayer Breakfast: “I was deeply grateful to attend the 65th Annual National Prayer Breakfast. This is a meaningful event that brings Members of Congress and other leaders from around the world to reflect on how our faith shapes our service. I was grateful to be seated with parliamentarians from Algeria, Bosnia, Albania, China, Canada, and Russia. “The message by Senate Chaplain Barry Black, of South Carolina heritage, and the heartfelt tributes for military families by President Donald Trump should always be cherished. ”
02.01.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Steve King (IA-04) issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 785, the National Right to Work Act this morning. Rep. Joe Wilson, the original co-sponsor of the legislation, stated: “As a long-time advocate of South Carolina’s right to work law and the Employee Rights Act, I am grateful to introduce national right to work legislation with my colleague, Congressman Steve King. At least 80 percent of Americans are opposed to forcing employees to pay dues as a condition of their employment, and our bill would protect workers by eliminating the forced-dues clauses in federal statute. “Right-to-work states, like South Carolina, have seen first-hand that job creation and economic growth comes from expanded freedoms. We need to expand common-sense reforms, like those in the National Right to Work Act to protect American workers and create jobs.” Rep. Steve King, the sponsor of the legislation, stated: “Today, around 80% of Americans overwhelmingly believe that every worker and their employer should have the power to negotiate the terms of their employment,” said King. “Unfortunately when Congress enacted the National Labor Relations Act in 1935, this right was taken away from the people and Americans were forced to pay union dues and abide by the union’s rules just to get or keep a job. “As early as 1947, Congress tacitly admitted that this concept of ‘monopoly bargaining’ does indeed violate the rights of workers. As a result, they allowed states to ‘opt-out’ if they passed Right to Work laws while making ‘forced unionization’ the default. Twenty-seven states have now done so, effectively mitigating the negative impact of this misguided federal labor law. However, the fact remains that Congress created the problem in the first place, and it is Congress’s responsibility to correct it. The National Right to Work Act will succeed in doing so by simply listening to the majority of American workers by erasing the forced-dues clauses in federal statute -- without adding a single letter to federal law.” Read the full text of the legislation here.
02.01.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement praising President Trump’s selection of Judge Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: “Judge Neil Gorsuch is an excellent choice to be the next Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and a fitting choice to replace Justice Antonin Scalia. Throughout his career, Judge Gorsuch has demonstrated he is committed to interpreting law, not using the Court to make laws. “I applaud President Donald Trump’s selection. Judge Gorsuch’s extensive credentials and impeccable qualifications should earn bipartisan support. I urge the Senate to confirm his nomination swiftly.”
01.31.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement on Iran’s recent ICBM test: “On Sunday, the Iranian regime tested another intercontinental ballistic missile in violation of existing U.N. resolutions. This is unacceptable and puts the safety of our allies in the Middle East at risk. Earlier today I met with King Abdullah of Jordan to discuss our shared concern of Iranian aggression, and just yesterday, Israel condemned the testing of the medium-range ballistic missile. “Iran is clearly using this as an opportunity to test President Trump and the new Administration. I urge him to take a strong stance against Iran and hold the regime accountable for testing the ICBMs in violation of existing U.N. resolutions. Iranian testing of ICBMs reveals it does not take seriously the naive Iranian Nuclear Deal.” Last year, Rep. Wilson introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to require Congress receive information on Iran’s ICBM testing.
01.30.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement in response to the President’s executive order on extreme vetting: “I support the President’s efforts to secure our borders and keep American families safe from terrorist attacks by pausing the refugee program to provide necessary improvements to the vetting process. I plan to work quickly in Congress and with the Administration to reinforce providing expedited waivers for interpreters that have assisted the U.S. Military. “I urge everyone to examine the facts behind the executive order: Terrorists have pledged to infiltrate the refugee program to kill American families on our soil In 2011, the Obama Administration paused the refugee program for six months to address security flaws in our vetting process The countries identified were named to the watch list under President Obama for failing to have functioning government agencies which could correctly identify civilians “Over the past year, I supported bipartisan initiatives to improve our vetting process, and will continue to advance legislation to protect American families.”
01.24.2017	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Governor Nikki Haley’s appointment as U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. was confirmed by the U.S. Senate: “Governor Nikki Haley will be a remarkable U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. She will be a fierce advocate for American values and our allies on the world stage and will bring fresh leadership to the United Nations. “I also want to congratulate Governor Henry McMaster. I am confident that Governor McMaster will succeed in his new role, and I look forward to working with him to create jobs and promote limited government and expanded freedom in South Carolina.”
01.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Congressman Mick Mulvaney finished his confirmation hearings before the Senate Budget Committee and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: “Congressman Mick Mulvaney is a strong choice to lead the Office of Management and Budget and I firmly believe that Congressman Mulvaney can make a difference in reining in the federal government’s out of control spending. “I was grateful to hear of Congressman Mulvaney’s commitment to resourcing our armed forces and to upholding President Donald Trump’s pledge to rebuild our military. I look forward to working with him as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness to responsibly address the readiness crisis and give our service members the resources they need to complete their mission.”
01.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after voting for H.R. 7 – the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act: “I am grateful that House Republicans overwhelmingly passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act today. A significant percent of American families do not support taxpayer dollars funding abortion, and for years we’ve relied on the Hyde Amendment to protect those values. Sadly, the Hyde Amendment is limited –it only restricts abortion funding from the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services and does not cover the over 1000 taxpayer supported health care plans that include abortion. “By passing this legislation, House Republicans make the Hyde Amendment permanent and prevent any taxpayer dollars from going to fund abortion. I will continue to fight to protect the rights of the unborn with positive, pro-family legislation.” Earlier this month, Congressman Wilson participated in the Stand Up for Life March and Rally at the South Carolina State House.
01.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s executive action on Keystone pipeline and Dakota Access pipeline: “I am grateful President Donald Trump has clearly demonstrated his commitment to an ‘all of the above’ energy policy by taking action to advance construction of the Keystone pipeline and the Dakota Access pipeline. “Keystone pipeline would strengthen our nation’s energy security and would create jobs in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District where Michelin Tire Corporation in the Midlands and MTU America in the Aiken-Barnwell area produce earthmover tires and engines used for oil sand development. “I look forward to working with President Trump and his nominee for Secretary of Energy, Governor Rick Perry, on continuing to create jobs and advance energy independence.”
01.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on being named Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce: “I am grateful to serve as Vice Chairman to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. I look forward to working with Chairwoman Virginia Foxx and President Donald Trump to create jobs, repeal harmful regulations that target small businesses, and strengthen our nation’s education system,” Wilson said. Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (NC-05) commented, “During his many years of service on the Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Wilson has worked tirelessly on behalf of our nation’s students, parents, workers, and employers. He is a dedicated public servant and will be an excellent vice chair of this important committee. I look forward to working alongside Congressman Wilson as we continue advancing conservative solutions to strengthen America’s schools and workplaces.”
01.24.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, introduced the SPY Car Study Act of 2017 today. Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) is the lead co-sponsor. The bill directs government partners and private auto manufacturers to conduct a study on security and privacy threats in motor vehicles. “Cyber threats have the potential to threaten the safety of American families. In the past few months, we’ve seen widespread reports of how cyber vulnerabilities in vehicles allow hackers to access a vehicle and take control from the driver,” Wilson said. “The SPY Car Study Act leverages the strength of public-private partnerships to responsibly assess cyber risks and privacy concerns within personal vehicles. By conducting a thorough study of isolation measures, detection protocol, and other best practices, we can bring industry, advocates, and government together to encourage innovation while ensuring consumer protection.” Congressman Ted Lieu stated, “Every American has a right to drive cars that are safe and secure. Cars don’t necessarily come to mind when most of us think about cybersecurity. But the Internet of Things (IoT) is bringing technology and connectivity into every part of our lives—including our motor vehicles. Without good cyber hygiene, a hacker could easily turn a car into a weapon. The SPY Car Study Act builds on important work undertaken by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration by emphasizing the protection of users’ personal data, and developing clear timelines for implementing these standards. We need to know that our navigation, entertainment, and operating systems are safe—and that our data is kept private. We must be proactive about our privacy and security, now more than ever.” Click here to view a copy of the legislation. Click here to view an op-ed Wilson and Lieu authored for The Hill last year.
01.17.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Obama commuted the sentences for 209 prisoners and pardons 64 inmates: “I am deeply disappointed that President Obama commuted the majority of Manning’s sentence. Manning was charged and convicted under the Uniform Code of Military Justice for espionage. The distribution of classified data put national security at risk. “The commutation of Manning and former General James Cartwright sends a dangerous message about how the Obama Administration respects classified data and only emboldens those who would seek to do harm by releasing sensitive data. The purpose of classification is to protect the lives of military personnel and diplomats serving overseas.” Congressman Wilson is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee where he chairs the Readiness Subcommittee.
01.13.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the House passage of S. Con. Res. 3, Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2017: "Today, House Republicans took an important step forward in upholding our promise to provide a path forward from the failed Obamacare policies. It is important to be clear—today’s vote is the first step to replace the unworkable Obamacare which is causing skyrocketing costs while delaying and denying needed services. We’re putting together a plan that provides a smooth transition to better health care, while still providing a safety net. I look forward to working with President-elect Donald Trump, Speaker Paul Ryan, and the nominee for Secretary of Health and Human Services, Chairman Tom Price, to put forth legislation that will make health care accessible and affordable by allowing association health plans, portable insurance, and the purchase of insurance across state lines. I am confident that our legislation will increase options and lower costs for all Americans, especially those in South Carolina."
01.11.2017	House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry announced Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will serve as the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness for the 115th Congress: Chairman Thornberry said: “Make no mistake—our military is facing a readiness crisis. I believe there is no better choice than Congressman Joe Wilson to lead the effort to rebuild our military. As a veteran, he’s committed to our service members. As the past Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, he knows the threats our country is facing at home and abroad. As a military father, he’s a fierce advocate for ensuring that our troops have the resources they need to complete the mission. “I look forward to working with him in the coming Congress to address the readiness crisis and support our troops and military families.” Wilson said: “I am grateful to have the opportunity to serve as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness. President-elect Donald Trump has pledged to rebuild the military and I want to support his positive efforts with his nominee for Secretary of Defense, General Jim Mattis. “As our military faces an unprecedented readiness crisis, I will fight to ensure they have the resources and support they need to protect Americans at home and overseas. I’m humbled to lead such a critical subcommittee, which has oversight over $250 billion, and will work tirelessly for our men and women in uniform and to rebuild our nation’s military.” The Readiness Subcommittee oversees military readiness, training, logistics and maintenance issues and programs, military construction, installations and family housing issues, and the BRAC process. It also oversees civilian personnel, energy security, and environmental issues that affect DOD. The Readiness Subcommittee makes sure that our troops are properly trained and their equipment is properly maintained so they can succeed in their missions, and that they have the facilities and services they deserve when they return home.
01.11.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing the Sensible Nuclear Waste Disposition Act, critical legislation to prevent the Department of Energy from constructing a new defense waste repository until the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has made a final decision regarding the outcome of Yucca Mountain: “The federal government has dedicated enormous resources to completing the nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain. However, the Obama Administration has tried to do everything in its power to stall the completion of the facility, holding up construction under political red tape—the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s own safety evaluation has found that Yucca Mountain far exceeds the regulatory standards and would not be a threat to the local population of Nevada. “Now, in the twilight of the Obama presidency, the Administration is trying to abandon Yucca Mountain and find a new repository for nuclear waste—leaving communities across the United States, including the Aiken-Barnwell community in the Second District, to bear the burden of storing nuclear waste that the federal government has promised to remove, while perpetuating a possible threat to communities nationwide. “American taxpayers have put over $3.7 billion into Yucca Mountain—they deserve to see it completed. This legislation will prevent a new facility from being constructed until the Nuclear Regulatory Commission makes a decision regarding the license for Yucca Mountain.” Importance to South Carolina: “This legislation is especially important to the residents of South Carolina. South Carolina ratepayers have invested over $1.3 billion into Yucca over the last 30 years—that’s in addition to the billions other taxpayers have put into Yucca. Starting over with another project would cost billions from taxpayers and South Carolina ratepayers and would take decades to complete. Meanwhile, South Carolina would remain a de facto repository for nuclear waste. The federal government should finish what they started—or, at the very least—should make an official decision on Yucca before wasting billions of dollars on a duplicative facility.” Bill Text Available Here
01.06.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the retirement of Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-3). "Congressman Sam Johnson is an American hero—a man who has served his country with honor and distinction as a member of the Air Force, endured unspeakable horror as a prisoner of war at the Hanoi Hilton prison in Vietnam, and who has been a faithful and dedicated public servant for the state of Texas. It has always been humbling and inspiring for me to introduce him to constituents, particularly military personnel. Throughout my time in Congress I have been grateful to serve with Congressman Johnson, and his leadership will be greatly missed. Best wishes to Sam on his next chapter."
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing the Protecting American Families’ Retirement Advice Act today: “The Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule is one of the most costly, burdensome regulations to come from the Obama Administration. Rather than making retirement advice and financial stability more accessible for American families, they have disrupted the client-fiduciary relationship, increased costs, and limited access. “This legislation will delay the implementation of this job-destroying rule, giving Congress and President-elect Donald Trump adequate time to re-evaluate this harmful regulation.” Wilson’s legislation is supported by key national partners: Dirk Kempthorne, President and CEO of the American Council of Life Insurers: “We thank Congressman Wilson for his leadership in introducing legislation acknowledging the need for immediate action to extend the April 10th compliance deadline of this rule.” Tim Pawlenty, CEO of the Financial Services Roundtable: "FSR strongly supports requiring companies to act in their customers 'best interest'. That's just common sense. However, the current rule is overly complex, involves too much red tape, and is already negatively impacting consumer choice and service. Rep. Wilson's bill will allow time for a less bureaucratic 'best interest' standard to be developed.” Cathy Weatherford, President and CEO of the Insured Retirement Institute: “We thank Congressman Wilson for his leadership on this important issue. We have long-standing concerns about the rule and its harmful impact on retirement savers. A delay is much needed and will provide more time to policymakers to reevaluate it and protect consumers from its negative consequences.” Paul R. Dougherty, President of National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors: “For well over a century, thousands of dedicated NAIFA members have helped individuals and families reach their financial goals. NAIFA remains concerned that the final rule will reduce consumers’ access to honest, valuable, information and advice from financial professionals about retirement products…A delay provides time for the new Administration to conduct a thoughtful and appropriate review and to work with stakeholders toward public policies that help Americans achieve their financial and retirement security.” Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr., President and CEO of SIFMA: “We continue to believe the rule is harmful to the market and most importantly investors. As our members have worked diligently to prepare for implementation, at great cost and with consequential impacts on retirement savers, a delay in applicability would be prudent to allow the new Congress and Administration to review a better course to protect investors.” Read the legislation here.
01.05.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the House Floor this afternoon on the bipartisan resolution opposing the anti-Israel United Nations Security Council resolution. Watch his remarks here. Remarks as prepared for delivery Thank you Chairman Ed Royce for yielding. I appreciate your leadership. I am in strong support of House Resolution 11—objecting to the United Nations Security Council resolution as an obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace. The United States has stood with Israel against one-sided, biased resolutions at the United Nations and in other international forums. Additionally, the United States has been adamant that a peaceful resolution will only come from direct, bilateral negotiations—not addressed by an international forum. The distorted ideology of moral neutrality is suicidal for civilization. On December 23rd, my constituents were shocked by how the United States betrayed our ally, Israel, and undermined the peace process by failing to veto the UN Security Council Resolution. President Obama and Secretary Kerry’s actions reveal dangerous irresponsibility, putting Israeli and American families at risk of more terrorist attacks. Fortunately, Governor Nikki Haley, President-elect Donald Trump’s appointee, will soon be able to make a positive difference as US Ambassador to the UN, promoting peace through strength. Today, I am grateful to stand strong with Israel by being an original cosponsor of H. Res. 11 and voting in favor of it. I appreciate the leadership of Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Chairman Ed Royce and the Ranking Member Eliot Engel for sponsoring this resolution and urge my colleagues to support.
01.03.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after being sworn in to the 115th Congress: “I am grateful to be sworn in as the elected representative for the people of South Carolina’s Second Congressional District and look forward to continuing my service in the new Congress. “In the coming year, I look forward to promoting positive, conservative change and advancing common-sense legislation that will create jobs, reduce regulations, and promote our military and veterans. I am optimistic for our children and grandchildren –fighting to promote limited government and expanded freedom for American families.” Click here to view Congressman Wilson’s 2017 Legislative Agenda *Ceremonial swearing-in photos available later today*
01.03.2017	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement on the Rules vote yesterday: "I opposed the amendment to amend the rules on the Office of Congressional Ethics. Since I was elected to Congress, I have pledged to be accessible and accountable. Elected officials should be held to a higher standard of scrutiny with an open process and full due process."
12.28.2016	"I am thrilled by the appointment of Thomas Bossert to Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism. Mr. Bossert has been a long time advocate for a strong, national cyber security policy. I look forward to working with him to protect American families and to implement an effective, inter-agency cyber plan."
12.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement in reaction to Secretary John Kerry's remarks today on the Middle East: "Secretary John Kerry’s disastrous speech today at the State Department reveals willful ignorance putting Israeli and American families at risk of more terrorist attacks. This confirms a legacy of failure. "If President Obama and Secretary Kerry wanted to promote peace they should have vetoed the UN Security Council Resolution. Their betrayal of our ally, Israel, undermines the peace process. There should be peace through strength--not appeasement. We must remember the murder in March of American student Taylor Force whose assassin was celebrated by the Palestinian Authority. "Fortunately, positive change will come January 20th with President-elect Donald Trump. His selection of Governor Nikki Haley as UN ambassador is more important than ever to stand strong with Israel for peace and democracy."
12.27.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced his 2017 Legislative Agenda at media presentations across the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, visiting West Columbia, Aiken, North Augusta, Barnwell, and Orangeburg. “With President-elect Donald Trump and strong majorities in the House and Senate, we have been given a new opportunity to promote positive conservative change,” Wilson said. “I am optimistic for our children and grandchildren—fighting to promote limited government and expanded freedom for American families.” Focusing on creating jobs and economic growth, Wilson detailed plans to reduce taxes and harmful regulations that destroy jobs. “Government regulation and overbearing executive action stifled small businesses and job-creators. I will continue to support initiatives in Congress to lower taxes and reduce costly regulations.” As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee for Emerging Threats and Capabilities, Wilson is also committed to strengthening our nation’s cyber capabilities and promoting our military and veterans. “In the past year, terrorist attacks at home and across the globe have constantly reminded that we are in the Global War on Terrorism. We need to promote peace through strength to protect American families.” Throughout the 115th Congress, Wilson will advance legislation in the following areas: Create Jobs and Economic Growth by working with local chambers and agencies to bring quality jobs to South Carolina, protecting our “Right to Work” laws, continuing to advocate for the critical missions at the Savannah River Site and Savannah River National Lab, and repealing and replacing Obamacare. Reduce Regulations that Harm Jobs by supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution and conservative budgets, cutting taxes to allow families to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and eliminating burdensome government regulations that stifle small businesses and job creation. Strengthen our nation’s cyber capabilities to protect our nation against cyberattacks by strengthening our nation’s offensive and defensive cyber capabilities, coordinating an inter-agency response to cyberattacks, and promoting public-private partnerships to encourage innovation. Promote our Military and Veterans by maintaining our military’s responsiveness and capabilities to promote peace through strength, protecting TRICARE benefits and sustaining quality of life for military families, reversing defense sequestration which hollows out the military, supporting National Guard and Reserve units, and supporting reforms to the VA system. View his legislative agenda here. View a video about his legislative agenda tour here.
12.22.2016	Congressman Wilson will hold press conferences to announce his 2017 Legislative Agenda on Tuesday, December 27, 2016, at locations across the Second Congressional District: Midlands – 10 am Congressman Wilson’s Midlands District Office 1700 Sunset Blvd | West Columbia Aiken – Noon Aiken County Administration Building, 3rd Floor 1930 University Parkway | Aiken North Augusta – 1:30 pm North Augusta City Hall 100 Georgia Avenue | North Augusta Barnwell – 3pm Barnwell County Courthouse Steps 141 Main Street | Barnwell Click Here for a short video that provides a brief introduction of Congressman Wilson's 2017 Legislative Agenda
12.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the guilty verdicts in Charleston Church Massacre: “Today’s verdict, while unable to bring back the remarkable souls who were lost, is a strong step towards justice for the victims, survivors, families, congregation of the historic Emanuel AME Church, and people of South Carolina. As a native of Charleston, I am particularly grateful for the community’s response to this gruesome tragedy. God Bless the Emanuel Nine.”
12.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Congressman Ryan Zinke was offered the position of Secretary of the Interior by President-elect Donald Trump: “I am grateful that President-elect Donald Trump has selected Congressman Ryan Zinke of Montana to serve as Secretary of the Interior. Congressman Zinke has been a lifelong public servant with extraordinary service to his country as a Navy Seal and dedicated service to Montana as a member of the State Senate and as its Congressman. “I saw firsthand his positive spirit as we served together on the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, and I look forward to his future accomplishments at the Department of Interior.”
12.14.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Governor Rick Perry was offered the position of Secretary of Energy by President-elect Donald Trump: “America is fortunate that President-elect Donald Trump intends to nominate former Governor Rick Perry to serve as Secretary of Energy. I look forward to working with him in the coming months to discuss the Savannah River Site and other energy priorities of South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. I was grateful to serve in the Reagan Administration as Department of Energy, Deputy Legal Counsel with Secretary Jim Edwards. I know Governor Perry’s background of positive growth will create jobs.” “With Governor Perry, I am confident we can accomplish an ‘all of the above’ energy policy— one that includes finishing Yucca Mountain, supporting SRS, completing MOX, building the Keystone Pipeline which produces jobs at Michelin of Lexington, and advancing energy independence.”
12.13.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump announced his selection of Rex Tillerson to serve as Secretary of State: “President-elect Donald Trump has proposed another capable choice by selecting Rex Tillerson to serve as Secretary of State. As one of America’s most successful business leaders promoting job creation and energy independence, I am confident that Mr. Tillerson will achieve a positive difference for American families. “His Exxon success is especially meaningful with my family heritage of four generations having worked for Exxon predecessors of Standard Oil, Esso, and Exxon, beginning with my great-grandfather in 1895.”
12.05.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Dr. Ben Carson was offered the position of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by President-elect Donald Trump: “I am thrilled that Dr. Ben Carson has been nominated to serve as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by President-elect Donald Trump. I am grateful to learn firsthand of his affection for the American people during the Presidential primary in South Carolina and I appreciate his effective endorsement of me during the general election. “I look forward to what Dr. Carson will be able to accomplish and am confident in his future success.”
12.02.2016	Watch Rep. Wilson’s floor remarks on this year’s NDAA. Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017: “This year’s NDAA is bold—a bill that puts readiness first, provides a pay raise for our troops, and fully funds the fight against Islamist terrorists, like ISIL and al Qaeda. In a time when Americans are facing more threats than ever before, the NDAA aggressively strengthens our national defense capabilities. “I am grateful that this legislation funds the critical national security and environmental cleanup missions at the Savannah River Site, including the MOX facility, and supports Fort Jackson and its role as the largest initial entry training facility for the U.S. Army. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am especially grateful this bill elevates U.S. Cyber Command to a full, unified combatant command and strengthens SOCOM and our cyber capabilities.” Watch Rep. Wilson’s floor remarks on this year’s NDAA. The conferenced version of the NDAA passed the House by a vote of 375 to 34. The Senate is expected to take up this critical legislation next week.
12.02.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump selected General Jim Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense: “"President-elect Donald Trump has made another excellent appointment in selecting General Jim Mattis as Secretary of Defense. General Mattis' recent experience in the Middle East makes him uniquely qualified to address threats to service members overseas and American families here at home. He is a champion for service members and military families with a goal of victory to achieve peace through strength."
11.30.2016	Joe Wilson (SC-02), chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, made the following statement after signing the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017: “Congress has a duty to provide for the common defense and I am grateful that this Conference Report clearly strengthens our national defense and protects American families. This year’s NDAA aggressively promotes readiness and gives our troops a much needed pay raise as we promote peace through strength.” Other key provisions in the Conference Report include: Providing $340 million in continued construction for the MOX project at the Savannah River Site Maintaining existing restrictions on closing Guantanamo Bay and transferring terrorists to American soil Provides for a study of the Selective Service Elevates U.S. Cyber Command to a full, unified combatant command Halts troop drawdowns Funds the war against ISIL
11.30.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the voting for the Senate amendment to H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act: “The 21st Century Cures Act is a comprehensive bill that provides much needed reforms to our medical innovation process. The bill puts the needs of patients first, and streamlines regulations to expedite the discovery, development, and delivery of new treatments. This legislation keeps America at the forefront of biomedical innovation, and I am grateful to support it. “As a former president of the Mid-Carolina Mental Health Association, I am also grateful that this bill also modernizes our mental health care system and supports patients and families. Additionally, as a member of the Opioid Task Force, I appreciate that this bill empowers states to address the opioid epidemic through prevention, treatment, and prescription drug monitoring programs.”
11.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6297, the Iran Sanctions Extension Act: “In the past year, Iran has accelerated its nuclear and conventional weapons program, specifically its intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) tests. It has also provided support for Hamas and Hezbollah, terrorist groups that threaten Israel and America. The authoritarian regime still chants, “Death to America, Death to Israel,” and just last week, Iran exceeded its allotment of heavy water in clear violation of the Iran deal. “Today, I voted to extend the Iran Sanctions Extension Act, providing long-term extensions to the sanctions on Iran’s nuclear weapons program and their ICBM program. The overwhelming support for this legislation should send a clear message to Tehran—hostile behavior towards the U.S. and our allies will not be tolerated. “I look forward to working with President-elect Donald Trump and Speaker Paul Ryan to push back against the dangerous Iran nuclear deal in the next Congress and fully restore sanctions on this dangerous regime.”
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON—In this week’s Republican address, Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) pays a special tribute to our nation’s veterans, thanking them for their service and discussing House Republican ideas to honor their sacrifices. “The cost of war never leaves a veteran, and it’s our duty to properly honor their dedication,” said Rep. Wilson. “Not only because it’s the right thing to do. It shows young people who raise their hand to serve that we will always take care of them and their families. Republicans are committed to honoring those who served by modernizing the institutions that serve them.” To learn more about the #BetterWay agenda, visit better.gop. Note: The audio of the weekly address is available here. Learn more about Rep. Wilson by following him on Twitter, liking his Facebook page, or visiting his website. Representative Joe Wilson of South Carolina Weekly Republican Address Columbia, South Carolina Friday, November 11, 2016 It is fitting that at the end of a long campaign, we take time to honor our nation’s veterans. After all, their dedication affords us the blessings of self-government. A peaceful transition of power is one of our finest democratic traditions, and generation after generation, it is protected by brave men and women. Politicians come and go, but the service of our veterans is an unbroken chain. In South Carolina, we’re a patriotic state with more than 37,000 active duty members serving our country. As the grateful son of a World War II flying tiger, a 31-year veteran myself, and as the father of four sons who have served overseas in the South Carolina Army National Guard and [the] Navy, I can personally attest to the truth, that when a loved one goes to war, the entire family does as well. The stories of our veterans—our heroes—never cease to inspire me. But far too often in recent years, the stories we hear are ones of struggle. Many veterans have had a hard time making the transition. They struggle to find steady work. They drive miles to their VA clinic or hospital and fail to get quality care, or any kind of care whatsoever. The system is riddled with delays and mismanagement. Sadly, we’ve had veterans die while waiting for care. And just one VA executive has been fired for manipulating wait lists. It’s just tragic, and unacceptable. The cost of war never leaves a veteran, and it’s our duty to properly honor their dedication. Not only because it’s the right thing to do. It shows young people who raise their hand to serve that we will always take care of them and their families. Republicans are committed to honoring those who served by modernizing the institutions that serve them. The House has passed a series of reforms to deliver a 21st-century health care system for our veterans. We have also acted to reform the VA itself. For example, bureaucrats who fail our veterans shouldn’t be given big bonuses; they should be held fully accountable. We will keep passing reforms, but what the VA truly needs—and what our veterans truly deserve—is a sweeping change of culture at the VA. Today we recommit ourselves to this work. One thing we can all do today—wherever we are—is take time to thank a veteran. Thank them for their service. Thank their families for their commitment. As a military parent, I can’t tell you how much this means. It shows that we do not take our veterans for granted. And it reminds us how truly fortunate we are to live in a free—and grateful—nation. Freedom is not free, as Specialist Thomas Caughman valiantly wrote in his last letter to his family before he gave his life for America in Iraq. God bless our troops. God bless their families. And God bless the United States of America.
11.07.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after following Director Comey’s letter to Congress yesterday: “The abuse of the FBI is yet another disappointment in the ongoing saga of Secretary Clinton’s use of a private email server. I find it difficult to believe that over 600,000 emails could be reviewed in such a short window. “This double standard and abuse of power is disconcerting for someone who offers herself as a candidate for the highest office in the United States. “The Secretary’s use of a private email server to transmit classified data showed a lack of judgment that put American families at risk of attack. Any other person who behaved so recklessly with classified data would have faced severe consequences.”
09.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA): “I am grateful to support the Water Resources Development Act, and was pleased that it passed the House today. This bill includes critical funding for deepening the Port of Charleston. By expanding the port’s ability to accommodate larger vessels, we are supporting the more than 187,000 jobs related to the port. “The Second Congressional District is home to hundreds of businesses, large and small, that rely on shipping their products overseas through the Port of Charleston. I urge the President to sign this key legislation swiftly.”
09.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after he voted to override the President’s veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA): “The families of innocent Americans who were killed by terrorists deserve the opportunity to seek justice. “I am grateful to support JASTA as it holds those who sponsor terrorist attacks on U.S. soil accountable for their actions and will serve as a deterrent to state-sponsors of terrorism. I appreciate the leadership of Chairman Bob Goodlatte that the wording protects American service members.”
09.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 6123, to designate a National Medal of Honor Museum: “Recipients of the Medal of Honor showed courage, bravery, and selflessness when defending our country. They deserve to have their stories told in a dedicated museum where all Americans can pay tribute to their sacrifice and learn of their heroism. “I look forward to visitors across the nation and around the world to tour Patriots Point soon.” Read the full text of the bill here. The legislation is co-sponsored by: Whip Steve Scalise, Rep. Mark Sanford, Rep. Jeff Duncan, Rep. Trey Gowdy, Rep. Mike Coffman, and Rep. Paul Cook
09.20.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (R-South Carolina) and Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) along with Senators Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Thom Tillis (R-North Carolina), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Deb Fischer (R-Nebraska), Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), and Roger Wicker (R-Mississippi) and Congressman Mike Rogers (R-Alabama) today introduced a bill to deter the president from end-running Congress on the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. The legislation would restrict funding for the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization Preparatory Commission if a United Nations Security Council Resolution is passed committing the United States to refrain from taking any actions that would “defeat the object and purpose” of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. “It appears that President Obama is going to the United Nations Security Council to attempt to bind the United States to the rules of a flawed multilateral treaty that the Senate has already rejected,” said Senator Cotton. "President Obama has already ignored the Constitution and circumvented Congress when he opted to go to the United Nations for approval of his disastrous Iran nuclear deal. We cannot sit by as he does so again with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. Decisions regarding our ability to deter nuclear war, protect Americans, and stand up for our allies should be left to the United States Congress, not the United Nations.” “Time and time again President Obama has shown a willingness to ignore the Constitution, bypassing Congress and the American people,” said Congressman Wilson. “Our ability to deter nuclear war is the hallmark of peace through strength. This legislation makes it clear—protecting American families is the job of Congress, not an unaccountable, international body. Nuclear deterrence is the basis for preserving peace.” Click here to read the full text of the Senate bill. Click here to read the full text of the House bill. Background: The “object and purpose” language is contained in Article 18 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties and has become customary international law guiding international treaty obligations. A Security Council Resolution, especially a Chapter VII resolution, containing this language could be interpreted as committing the United States to the terms and conditions of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
09.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the House Floor urging the passage of H.R. 5351, to prohibit the transfer of any individual detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, legislation that would halt the transfer of any detainee, to any location. Watch here Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you Congressman Forbes for yielding. I am grateful to be an original co-sponsor of H.R. 5351, prohibiting the transfer of Guantanamo detainees. While Congress has passed legislation barring Guantanamo detainees from being transferred to the United States, this bill, introduced by Congresswoman Jackie Walorski, further protects American families by halting the transfer of any detainee to any location. During the August recess, the Administration released fifteen dangerous detainees from Guantanamo Bay—the single largest release of prisoners under the current President. And he has plans to release more—20 of the remaining 61 detainees at Guantanamo have already been cleared for release. The President’s reckless release of detainees in an effort to close Guantanamo puts American service members and families at risk. In March, the Director of National Intelligence reported that at least 116 detainees, nearly one-third—released from Guantanamo have returned to the battlefield, providing reinforcements to Islamic terrorists, to attack American soldiers. I appreciate the leadership of Congresswoman Jackie Walorski for sponsoring this legislation, and urge my colleagues to vote in support.” Watch full remarks here
09.13.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the House Floor urging the passage of H.R. 5587, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, legislation that will help equip all Americans with the tools they need to succeed in the 21st century workforce. Wilson is a co-sponsor of the bill. Watch here Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you Congressman Thompson for yielding. I am grateful to support H.R. 5587, Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, as amended. Whether I am visiting one of the remarkable schools in South Carolina’s technical education system, of Aiken, Midlands, Orangeburg-Calhoun, or a local manufacturing facility the message is the same—the job market is changing rapidly. Quality education and training is vital to competing in the workplace, which is why apprenticeship programs are key to building a thriving workforce leading to the success of BMW, Michelin, Bridgestone, Boeing, and soon Volvo in South Carolina. While existing career and technical education has played a key role in supporting local career and technical education, existing legislation has not been updated in over a decade. This bill serves as the first step to reforming our nation’s career and technical education programs by helping all Americans enter the workforce with the tools and knowledge they need to compete for high-skilled, in-demand jobs. Some reforms include: empowering state and local community leaders, limiting top-down federal mandates, encouraging employer engagement, and increasing transparency and accountability. I am grateful to co-sponsor H.R. 5587, The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century. I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Glenn Thompson for sponsoring this legislation, and urge my colleagues to vote in support." Watch full remarks here.
09.12.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent a letter to the Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence demanding answers about risks posed by the $1.7 billion cash transfer from the United States to Iran as part of the dangerous Iranian Nuclear Deal: “The cash payment—which is virtually untraceable—is deeply troubling and puts American families at risk. We should hold the Iranian regime responsible for financing mass murder of American families at home and abroad, not reward them. American families deserve the truth about this Administration’s reckless actions.” The letter reads in part: “It is well documented that Tehran has a history of financing of Hezbollah, radical groups in Gaza, Houthi rebels in Yemen, and even Al-Qaeda. With the money they receive from Iran, terror groups are able to further destabilize the Middle East and threaten America and its allies… Given the information stated above, I remain gravely concerned with the nefarious possibilities of this cash payment. Read the full letter here.
09.06.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked votes on funding to address the Zika virus: “Tonight, Democrats in the Senate again showed the American people that they would rather play politics than address the public health crisis caused by Zika. I am disappointed that they continue to block critical legislation that protects American families. “House Republicans have acted quickly to address the threat of Zika. First, we urged President Obama to reprogram $589 million of unused funding from the Ebola crisis. In June, we passed the Zika Response Appropriations Act, key legislation that provides $1.1 billion for the prevention, research, and treatment of the virus. Our legislation is accountable the taxpayers and doesn’t increase government spending. “As more and more cases of Zika are reported in South Carolina and across the country, Senate Democrats should finally take action and stop playing games with our public health.”
09.06.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement regarding the internal DOD memo that outlines the Obama administration’s strategy to veto the national defense bill: “As the son of a veteran, the father of four sons who have served in the military, and a veteran myself, I am deeply disappointed that our Commander in Chief would threaten to use a veto of the National Defense Authorization Act as a “weapon” against Speaker Paul Ryan and congressional Republicans. “The NDAA provides necessary resources to keep American families safe at home and overseas. This memo shows that the President is willing to play politics with the livelihood of our troops, veterans, and military families. They deserve better. “This year’s National Defense Authorization Act is bipartisan—as it has been for decades. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues, as we continue our work on the Conference Committee.” Congressman Joe Wilson is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee where he chairs the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities. He also serves on the Conference Committee for this year’s NDAA.
09.06.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the passing of Phyllis Schlafly: “I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Phyllis Schlafly. A passionate advocate for the conservative principles of limited government and expanded freedom, she worked tirelessly to inspire Americans across the country. My thoughts and prayers are with her family in their time of grief.” Wilson paid tribute to Phyllis Schlafly at the conclusion of his floor remarks this afternoon.
08.23.2016	(WASHINGTON) – On Monday, August 29, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual district Bus Tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his work in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Leacy Burke with Congressman Wilson’s office at leacy.burke@mail.house.gov This schedule is subject to change and stops may be added. Contact Leacy Burke for the most up-to-date schedule for your region. Monday, August 29, 2016 Aiken County 9:00AM – Tour of ASCO Valve Inc. – 1561 Columbia Highway N, Aiken 10:15AM – Tour of AGY – 2556 Wagener Road, Aiken 11:25AM – Tour of Autoneum – 1103 Powderhouse Road SE, Aiken 12:30PM – Aiken Rotary Club – 117 Newberry Street SW, Aiken 2:00PM – Tour of Medac – 150 Bluff Avenue, North Augusta 3:30PM – Tour of Ambiopharm – 1024 Dittman Court, Beech Island Tuesday, August 30, 2016 Lexington County 8:30AM – Visit Irmo Chamber of Commerce – 1235 Columbia Avenue, Irmo 9:35AM - Tour of GIS - 917 Chapin Road, Chapin 10:50AM – Tour of Shealy Electric Wholesaler – 120 Saxe Gotha Road, West Columbia 12:00PM – Tour of Harsco Rail – 2401 Edmund Highway, West Columbia 1:00PM – Cayce-West Columbia Rotary – 1066 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia 2:15PM – Tour of Flextronics – 1000 Technology Blvd., West Columbia 3:30PM – Tour of HAHL Pedex – 126 Glassmaster Road, Lexington Wednesday, August 31, 2016 Richland County 8:15AM - National Guard Retiree Breakfast - 1054 Sunset Blvd., West Columbia 9:00AM – Tour of USC Law School – 1500 Gervais Street, Columbia 10:15AM – Visit with Forest Acres Police Department – 5205 Trenholm Road, Columbia 11:15AM - Tour of Colite - 5 Technology Circle, Columbia 12:30PM – Lunch at Prince’s House of Pizza – 5 Blythewood Road, Blythewood 1:45PM – Tour of Pure Power Technologies – 1410 North Point Boulevard, Blythewood 2:50PM – Tour of AMBAC – 910 Spears Creek Court, Elgin 4:15PM - Tour of SeaHunt Boats - 2348 Shop Road, Columbia Thursday, September 1, 2016 Orangeburg and Barnwell Counties 9:15AM – Tour of Orangeburg Distributors – 685 Sprinkle Avenue, Orangeburg 10:45AM - Tour of North Air Force Auxiliary Field - 8294 N Road, North 12:15PM – Lunch at Shealy’s BBQ – 340 East Columbia Avenue, Leesville 1:15PM – Tour of Berwick Offray, LLC – 832 Summerland Avenue, Leesville 3:30 PM -- Tour of Crane Corporation -- Williston * Some stops are subject to last-minute scheduling changes. Should a cancellation or time adjustment occur, media will be notified.
07.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the terrorist attack in Nice, France: “Yesterday’s terror attack in Nice is another somber reminder that we are in a Global War on Terrorism. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the people of France. “We will stand with France, our oldest ally, in the fight against Islamic terrorism.” Congressman Wilson serves as co-chair of the French Caucus and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee.
07.08.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan appointed him to the Conference Committee for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017: “I am grateful to support this year’s NDAA, crucial legislation that promotes readiness, reforms military health care options, and extends vital counterterrorism authorities. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I look forward to working with the conference committee on this bipartisan legislation.” Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Mac Thornberry, made the following statement on Congressman Wilson’s appointment: “As a veteran and proud military parent, Congressman Wilson has been a strong advocate for troops, veterans, and military families. I look forward to working with him during the conference proceedings to improve readiness and strengthen our nation’s response to new and emerging threats.”
07.07.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) questioned Special Envoys for Guantanamo Closure today during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing: Click here to view. Video courtest of C-SPAN. Excerpts from Congressman Wilson’s statement: “It’s so important, I’ve had the opportunity to visit Guantanamo twice to see the personnel there, the professionalism of our military, and it’s the place where terrorists should be.” “It is utterly absurd, the thought of bringing them to the United States in any way or releasing them.” “We’re detaining people who have every intent to kill American families.” “By releasing these people, American families are at risk around the world, and I hope that you will reconsider what you are doing.” “We are in a Global War on Terrorism, this is not an academic exercise of deterrence or incarceration.”
07.05.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement following FBI Director James Comey’s recommendation not to bring charges against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: “Today, FBI Director James Comey identified that Secretary Hillary Clinton was ‘extremely careless’ with her use of a private email server during her time as Secretary of State. The investigation was telling—over one hundred classified emails were found on her server, despite her repeated statements that she never sent classified information. Additionally, the FBI couldn’t rule out that her server could have been hacked, endangering lives and putting American families at risk. “Secretary Clinton’s actions were remarkably reckless and displayed a lack of judgement.”
06.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House Select Committee on Benghazi released their final report: “I applaud the work of Chairman Trey Gowdy and the rest of the House Select Committee on Benghazi for their dedicated, fact-driven investigation into the murders of four Americans. From the Committee’s thorough and dedicated work, it is clear—former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton should have realized the risks to the mission in Benghazi and its personnel, and I am grateful that the truth is being revealed, despite intentional roadblocks and delays to deceive the American people. Trey Gowdy's persistance of the truth has been inspiring."
06.23.2016	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) co-chaired the 2016 Congressional Art Competition Reception in Washington, D.C. “For 35 years, this competition has inspired many young people in their love of art. I was grateful to bring local artist Yvonne Kinney, from North Augusta, to Washington to have her encourage the students in their work and highlight the importance of giving back to your community,” Wilson said. “Congratulations to Mary Aufuldish from Cardinal Newman High School in the Midlands on her winning piece, America the Beautiful. I am humbled to represent all of the young talent from the Second Congressional District, and I wish you continued success.” Congressman Joe Wilson served as the Republican Co-Chair for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition (CAC). He is the first member of the South Carolina delegation to hold the honor.
06.23.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 4-4 decision in United States v. Texas, which upholds the lower court’s decision that the President’s use of executive action on immigration is unlawful: “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is a victory for the Constitution. By declaring the President’s plan to provide amnesty to illegal aliens unconstitutional and void, we have protected the separation of powers and defended the American people from overreaching executive action. The President doesn’t write laws, Congress does.”
06.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee passed a House Resolution 737: “I applaud the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, led by Chairman Jason Chaffetz, for passing a resolution to censure Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen. “After unlawfully targeting conservative tax-exempt organizations for extra scrutiny, the IRS had an obligation restore accountability and transparency to the American taxpayer. Yet, Commissioner Koskinen failed to testify before the House Judiciary Committee and answer legitimate allegations that he failed to comply with a congressional subpoena, which resulted in the destruction of key evidence, provided false statements during his sworn testimony, and did not notify Congress that Lois Lerner’s emails were mysteriously missing. “The Commissioner has clearly acted in a manner that is not fitting of his office and has lost the trust of the taxpayers—this resolution censures corruption at the highest level of a department which should be above reproach. I look forward to voting in support on the House floor.” This week House Republicans stood up for taxpayers, passing the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, critical legislation that stops the politicization of government and blocks the IRS from collecting the names of donors to tax-exempt organizations.
06.13.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after meeting with Brigadier General John P. Johnson, incoming Commanding General at Fort Jackson: “I am grateful to welcome Brigadier General Pete Johnson to Fort Jackson. I look forward to welcoming him to the Midlands—a community that has been designated the ‘Most Military-Friendly Community in America.’ I look forward to working with him to support the crucial missions at Fort Jackson. “I commend Brigadier General Roger Cloutier on his dedicated service to Fort Jackson and to the community." The Change of Command is scheduled for June 24, 2016. Congressman Wilson, whose district includes Fort Jackson, serves on the House Armed Services Committee, where he is Chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee. Wilson served in the U.S. Army Reserves and S.C. Army National Guard for 31 years, and all four of his sons have served in the military.
06.13.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to the attacks in Orlando: "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the attack in Orlando and their families. This is another chilling reminder we are in a Global War on Terrorism where this week Islamic terrorists have murdered dozens of innocent civilians from Baghdad, Iraq, to Orlando, Florida."
06.08.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to a joint session of Congress: “I was grateful to serve on the Escort Committee for Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and hear his remarks. His dedication to expanding opportunities for businesses to create jobs is inspirational. The people of India have achieved unprecedented growth, moving from a socialist to free-market economy. I look forward to continuing to work with Prime Minister Modi and India to grow the partnership between our countries, as America is the oldest democracy and India is the largest democracy in the world. “Prime Minister Modi’s visit is especially significant to me as I am a former co-chair and current member of the Congressional Caucus on India and because my father served as a Flying Tiger in India during World War II, providing me a lifetime of friendship and appreciation of the people of India, especially as business leaders, creating jobs. South Carolina is particularly appreciative of the Indian-American community as evidenced by electing Governor Nikki Haley—the second Indian-American governor elected in America.” Congressman Wilson is a former chairman of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, one of the largest caucuses in Congress. He has been a member since 2002.
06.06.2016	“The Administration’s decision to finalize the overtime rule is yet another regulatory blow that destroys jobs. This mandate especially hurts students, non-profits, and people starting a new career. This top-down, burdensome regulation will limit job creation, eliminate workplace flexibility, and penalize businesses, hurting hardworking Americans. “Businesses should be responsible for managing their own employees, not the federal government.” Congressman Wilson is a co-sponsor of H.R. 4773, the Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act, which would negate the Administration’s Overtime Rule. He will also attend a hearing in the House Committee on Education and the Workforce on Thursday titled: “The Administration’s Overtime Rule and Its Consequences for Workers, Students, Nonprofits, and Small Businesses”
05.23.2016	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced that he has received the “Hero of Main Street” award from the National Retail Federation for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. Wilson is part of a bi-partisan group honored for their support of a wide range of issues including international trade, infrastructure investment, tax reform and labor issues. “I am grateful to receive the ‘Hero of Main Street’ award from the National Retail Federation,” Wilson said. “Retail supports over 80,000 jobs in the Second Congressional District alone. I will continue to support initiatives in Congress to lower taxes and reduce costly regulations.” “Congressman Wilson has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small, and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “Congressman Wilson is an advocate for his thriving Main Streets and to the long-term growth the retail industry -- our nation’s largest job creators and the catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.” The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Wilson has received the NRF “Hero of Main Street Award” each year since 2013. Eligibility is based on NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. NRF’s This is Retail campaign highlights the industry’s opportunities for life-long careers, how retailers strengthen communities, and the critical role that retail plays in driving innovation. nrf.com
05.19.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. This legislation funds our military and vital national security initiatives. “This year’s NDAA protects our current and future service members by strengthening military readiness. I am grateful that this bill provides for our troops, veterans, and military families by prioritizing readiness, reforming health care options, extending vital counterterrorism authorities. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am especially grateful that the NDAA provides improvements to our cyber readiness, support for innovative science and technology programs, and fully resources our Special Operations forces.” View Wilson's remarks on the House Floor about the NDAA Congressman Wilson co-sponsored three key amendments to the NDAA: Amendment 306, Moulton and Wilson - To require the President to officially notify Congress whenever Iran conducts a ballistic missile launch, and to inform Congress what actions will be taken. “Since the dangerous Iran Deal went into effect, the regime in Tehran has been increasingly aggressive and conducting frequent intercontinental ballistic missile tests—without facing repercussions. This bipartisan amendment will hold the Administration accountable and require a timely and thorough report on our response to Iran’s hostile actions.” View Wilson's Remarks on the House Floor about the Amendment Amendment 179, Langevin and Wilson - To establish a public-private partnership to allow DoD employees to gain experience at private companies and bring industry leaders to DoD. “Expanding public-private partnerships will encourage innovation and improve the knowledge base for our military leaders.” View Wilson's Remarks on the House Floor about the Amendment Amendment 324, Thornberry, Wilson, and Langevin - To establish a Global Engagement Center to lead and coordinate efforts to track foreign propaganda and disinformation efforts intended to undermine U.S. national security interests. “Many of our enemies, including ISIL, rely on propaganda efforts to recruit and expand their resources. We need to attack our enemies from every approach, and that includes expanding our ability to counter and refute propaganda.”
05.11.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) greeted veterans from across South Carolina during their visit to the World War II Memorial in Washington. The veterans’ trip was sponsored by Honor Flight South Carolina, an organization that brings veterans to Washington. “I am humbled to greet our nation’s veterans during their visit to Washington. Meeting with veterans and hearing their stories always uplifts and inspires me,” Wilson said. “As a 31 year retiree from the Army Reserves and South Carolina Army National Guard and father of four sons who have served in the military, I am especially grateful to the Honor Flight Network for their work in paying tribute to our service members and veterans.” Photos of the Honor Flight visit to the World War II Memorial are available here
05.10.2016	On Friday, May 6, 2016, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for South Carolina’s Second Congressional District: First Place: Ms. Mary Aufuldish, Cardinal Newman High School Second Place: Mr. Jake Edenfield, Irmo High School Third Place: Ms. Eva Slagle, Chapin High School Ms. Aufuldish’s piece, America the Beautiful, will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol with art from all participating districts around the country, and she will have the opportunity to visit Washington, D.C. for a reception later this summer. “For the past 34 years, the Congressional Art Competition has inspired and encouraged young artists,” Wilson said. “I’m grateful to have the opportunity to showcase students from the Second District. Each of the entries was a wonderful representation of the talent in our young artists.” The winning art can be viewed on Wilson's Facebook page The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students. Students who are interested in submitting art for the 2017 Annual Congressional Art Competition should visit Wilson’s website next January.
04.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the House floor today in favor of H.J. Res 88, a resolution to disapprove of the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule. Wilson is cosponsor of this legislation. Watch here Remarks as prepared for delivery: Thank you Congressman Phil Roe for yielding. I am in strong support of H. J. Res 88, to disapprove of the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule. The fiduciary rule is yet another one of the President’s burdensome, expensive regulations. Instead of helping American families by expanding access to financial advice, the Department of Labor has overly restricted the definition of a fiduciary and creates new obstacles for small business owners. This Administration’s misguided fiduciary regulation will make it harder for small businesses to assist their employees in preparing for retirement, increases costs, and limits choices for those who need this advice the most—American families. n the past months, I’ve met with business leaders and financial advisers across the Second Congressional District who share my concerns about the negative impacts of this unworkable regulation. I am grateful to cosponsor H.J. Res 88, disapproving of the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule and look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the coming months to ensure that American families have access to reliable and affordable advice that they need to create financial stability for retirement. I appreciate the leadership of Rep. Phil Roe for sponsoring this resolution and urge my colleagues to vote in support.
04.28.2016	U.S. Representatives Joe Wilson (R-SC), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Joe Barton (R-TX), and Ted Lieu (D-CA) today announced the formation of the bipartisan House Smart Transportation Caucus dedicated to advancing new innovation in connected and autonomous vehicles. “I am grateful to join my colleagues as a co-chair and founding member of the Smart Transportation Caucus,” said Wilson. “Vehicle safety is of great importance to me because South Carolina is America’s leading exporter on cars and tires. As cyber vulnerabilities in vehicles threaten the safety and privacy of American families, we need to promote collaboration across both the public and private sectors.” Rep. Wilson has sponsored the SPY Car Study Act and is the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities. Read his recent op-ed with Rep. Lieu about driverless cars and digital security. “The future of the auto industry is changing at a rapid pace, and we are committed to keeping the U.S. in the driver’s seat,” said Dingell. “Connected and autonomous vehicle technology is one of the most competitive areas globally for manufacturing, and we need to show the world that we are leading the way in developing technology that will improve car safety and fuel efficiency, reduce congestion, and save lives. In addition, the future of mobility is changing rapidly and legislators are considering policy options that will change models of transportation in this country. The creation of this bipartisan caucus will help educate Members about the innovation that is happening in the United States, identify policy areas that need to be improved to support the development of new technologies, and boost collaboration to ensure the U.S. always maintains its competitive edge.” “I am excited to join the Smart Transportation Caucus and work to further educate and inform my fellow Members of Congress on the rapidly developing technologies in the transportation sector,” said Barton. “The Texas 6th Congressional District is home to one of the largest General Motors plants, and I have closely followed their deployment of connected vehicles and other cutting-edge technologies. This caucus will focus on a wide array of transportation methods and safety implications from a 21st century perspective.” “Technological advances in the auto industry have the potential to transform transportation in America – making our highways safer and reducing traffic,” said Lieu. “But we must implement smart policies that encourage safety and security so we can ensure that a cyberattack does not turn connected cars into weapons or paralyze an entire city. Our technological advances are only as good as the cyber security that ensures products work efficiently and safely. The bipartisan Smart Transportation Caucus will focus on encouraging the deployment of new technologies with an emphasis on safety, security and innovation. As an original cosponsor of H.R. 3994, the Security and Privacy (SPY) Car Study Act with Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, I am honored to work with him alongside Representatives Barton and Dingell as well as Senators Gardner and Peters to ensure smart, safe and secure transportation for all Americans.” The Smart Transportation Caucus will encourage the development and deployment of existing and next-generation technologies, including connected and automated vehicle safety technologies, smart infrastructure, advanced traffic and freight management systems, real-time transit and parking technologies. The Caucus will also coordinate relevant stakeholders in the Federal government, the auto industry, the communications industry, transportation safety advocates, cybersecurity groups and the privacy sector to engage in meaningful debate on policies and priorities that will help best support this new era in transportation.
04.28.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee completed the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. This legislation would fund our military and vital national security initiatives. “The primary duty of Congress should be limited to what we cannot do for ourselves—to provide for the common defense. This year’s NDAA protects American families from new and emerging threats and fully resources our service members deployed all over the world. I am grateful to support this bipartisan legislation. “The FY 2017 NDAA makes our military strong—capable of defending our homeland and deterring our enemies.” Summary Here | Full Text of NDAA Here Highlights from the FY 2017 NDAA Wilson’s quotes in italics Cybersecurity and U.S. Cyber Command “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I appreciate that the 2017 NDAA prioritizes cyber initiatives. As we saw with the hack of the Office of Personnel Management records, our enemies are increasingly using cyber capabilities to threaten American families. By fully resourcing our cyber initiatives, we can ensure our military has the technical capabilities to respond and protect our citizens.” The FY2017 NDAA elevates U.S. Cyber Command to a unified command and directs GAO to study the CYBERCOM Commander’s dual-hat responsibility as the Director of the National Security Agency. This year’s NDAA also fully funds cyber operations, and prioritizes readiness of the Cyber Mission Forces. It includes provisions to enhance Information Assurance and prevent against insider threats. The NDAA also supports funding and advanced oversight of the development of a new security clearance IT architecture to replace OPM’s networks. View Rep. Wilson’s comments to the full committee here. Improving Benefits for our Service members “South Carolina is home to countless military families who deserve world-class, modern, affordable, and sustainable health care. The reforms in this year’s NDAA will strengthen military health care by increasing competition among providers and providing them with increased options by expanding choices available to veterans, service members, and military families.” The FY2017 NDAA provides a deserved pay raise for our service members, and prevents the President from cutting or lowering troop pay—as he has done the past three years. The legislation also includes meaningful reforms to health care for our troops and their families. These reforms will simplify TRICARE options, expand access to care, and improve beneficiaries experience at military treatment facilities. Additionally, the NDAA strengthens the readiness of military healthcare professionals. Readiness “Sadly, the President’s budget request lacked key resources for troop training and necessary repairs and updates for equipment. Our troops should have the best support and equipment when they are sent on missions, but too often, our troops and military leaders are facing the harmful effects of deferred maintenance, reduced training, and delayed procurement. I am grateful that this year’s NDAA does not provide for a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round, since our military is at the smallest it has been since the 1940s, yet threats to American families are greater than ever before. The disparity between declining resources and proliferating threats has forced military commanders to make difficult decisions for many years that have weakened the force. Equipment challenges include platforms deployed beyond their intended life, outdated technology, and equipment that is too expensive to maintain. The NDAA also directs resources to restore and maintain real property, ranging from barracks to hangars—like the much needed repairs to the Fort Jackson barracks. Each of the investments included in the NDAA were identified as a critical requirement by the military services, none were fully funded in the President’s Budget Request. While readiness shortfalls will take many years to correct, these initiatives will begin to close the gap. MOX / Nuclear Security “I am grateful that the NDAA continues construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at the Savannah River Site. This facility is critical to our national security and environmental clean-up missions converting weapons-grade plutonium into green fuel, and is the only viable method of upholding our nonproliferation commitment with the Russian Federation.” The NDAA funds MOX at $340 million, and includes specific language requiring the funding go towards continued construction of the facility. Guantanamo Bay “Our current president demonstrated a willful disregard of law, specifically past NDAAs, and constitutional authority when he announced his dangerous plan to close Guantanamo and transfer the terrorists to prisons on American soil, including potentially my birthplace of Charleston. I have visited Guantanamo—this is the appropriate place to house these terrorists, not in South Carolina, Colorado, Kansas, or any other prison on American soil where they would be mere miles from schools, churches, and neighborhoods.” The NDAA restricts transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the United States and building or modifying facilities in the United States for housing detainees. It also prohibits the Department of Defense from using any funds to transfer the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay back to Cuba. Rep. Wilson also cosponsored Rep. Jackie Walorski’s amendment that would compel the next president to provide a detailed plan for the future of Guantanamo Bay and the detainees. “It is my hope that through this amendment, Congress can finally gain a clearer vision for what the next president plans for Gitmo, and most importantly, its detainees… By outlining statutory requirements for the next administration’s plan on Guantanamo detainees, we can work together to protect American families.”
04.21.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, released the following statement after today’s Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 National Defense Authorization Act: “In the past year, our nation has faced new threats both in cyber space and in real-time—whether from cyberattacks that targeted the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), or from asymmetrical warfare threats posed by Russia and Iran. “The Emerging Threats and Capabilities markup fully resources our critical counterterrorism efforts and special operations activities, and biodefense provisions. We are clear—if our enemies are going to attack our soldiers and American families with new and unconventional attacks, our military will have every tool to respond.” For full text of the mark and to watch the markup, please click here The ETC proposal is a vital part of the NDAA through which the Committee conducts oversight of counterterrorism programs and initiatives, U.S. Special Operations Forces, related Intelligence support, DoD science and technology programs and policy, information technology and Cyber operations and programs, homeland defense, force protection policy and oversight, and combating weapons of mass destruction. Specifically, the ETC proposal will: Strengthen efforts against terrorists and violent extremists by fully supporting Special Operations Forces and other DoD elements and programs: Strengthen efforts against terrorists and violent extremists by fully supporting Special Operations Forces and other DoD elements and programs: - Extends 1208 counterterrorism authority used by Special Operations Forces. - Directs a strategy for Regional Counter-Narrative Capabilities against ISIS and other threats to mitigate propaganda and recruitment efforts. - Extends vital authorities including Non-Conventional Assisted Recovery (NAR), an authority used to rescue isolated service members and U.S. citizens. - Strengthens congressional oversight of ongoing counterterrorism operations and activities. Fully support and strengthen DoD cyber operations and programs: - Prioritizes the readiness of the Cyber Mission Force, cyber tools, and capabilities. - Ensures resiliency for DoD networks, weapons systems, and capabilities; mitigates against insider threats; and, provides special procurement authority to facilitate recovery from a cyber attack. - Supports funding and advanced oversight of the development of a new security clearance IT architecture to replace OPM’s networks that resulted in the compromise of millions of records of federal civil servants and their families. Support emerging technologies and counter unconventional threats: - Supports directed-energy weapon and counter–unmanned aerial systems technology research. - Supports test and evaluation capabilities. - Places renewed emphasis on the congressionally-directed strategy on Counter-Unconventional Warfare threats such as those being posed by Russia and Iran. - Fully funds the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, the Chemical and Biological Defense program, and the Chemical Demilitarization program. - Implements Biodefense Blue Ribbon Panel recommendations, including directing a National Biodefense Strategy and review of enhanced public-private partnerships for medical countermeasures.
04.14.2016	Yesterday, the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) honored Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) by establishing the Representative Joe Wilson United States House of Representatives Senior Grant. This scholarship, managed by MOAA, will be awarded to a distinguished student entering his or her senior year. “I am grateful to the MOAA Board of Directors and Lieutenant General Dana Atkins for their dedicated service to our men and women in uniform and their families. I am humbled and honored that starting this fall, MOAA will offer a scholarship in my name to military families,” Wilson said. “As the son of a World War II Flying Tiger, a 31-year retiree from the Army Reserves and South Carolina Army National Guard, and the father of four sons who have served in the military, I know first-hand how important it is to support our military families.” Since 1948, MOAA’s Scholarship Fund has awarded educational grants and scholarships to undergraduate students of uniformed officers and enlisted families. Learn more about MOAA’s Scholarship Fund here.
03.31.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the names of his nominees to the United States Military Academies for the class of 2020. After an extensive application process, the candidates were interviewed by an independent panel, whose members include retired military officers, ROTC leaders, and academy alumni from the Second Congressional District. “I am grateful to nominate these exceptional candidates from the Second Congressional District to our Military Academies. Each student has excelled in school and service, and I have no doubt that they will be a positive reflection on our community. As the son of World War II Flying Tiger, a 31 year veteran, and the father of four sons who have served in our military, I know first-hand the benefits of military service and am inspired by these students’ desire to serve their country. “Congratulations to these distinguished young men and women for receiving the honor of a nomination to our Military Academies,” Wilson said. U.S. Naval Academy Daniel Barfield, Homeward Educational Association Katherine Boyle, Irmo High School Daniel Carlisle, Aiken High School Reid Creswell, Chapin High School Matthew Frierson, Spring Valley High School Grayson Gossett, Irmo High School Coby Jeffcoat, Clemson University Cassia Larson, Aiken High School Kanani Lodge, University of South Carolina Columbia Samantha Maddox, Aiken High School U.S. Air Force Academy Trent Brittingham, River Bluff High School Daniel Carlisle, Aiken High School Benjamin Duncan, South Aiken High School Samantha Maddox, Aiken High School Cassia Larson, Aiken High School Michael Turner, Hammond School U.S. Military Academy Reginald Epps, USMAPS Grayson Gossett, Irmo High School Samantha Maddox, Aiken High School Thomas Neal, Marion Military Institute Michael Turner, Hammond School Edwin Torres, Airport High School Trent Brittingham, River Bluff High School Cassia Larson, Aiken High School Any constituent seeking a Congressional nomination in the future or for more information regarding the application process should visit Congressman Wilson's website here.
03.23.2016	Washington - Today, Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT), House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY), and Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced The Promise Zone Job Creation Act to create new tax credits to incentivize the hiring of residents of federally-designated Promise Zones. It would also encourage new investments to bring property, equipment, or software to these hard-hit communities. "I am grateful to be an original co-sponsor of the Promise Zone Job Creation Act of 2016 to incentivize businesses that create jobs in designated Promise Zones," Wilson said. "I've seen first-hand the benefits of the Promise Zone designated has had on South Carolina's Second Congressional District. The Lowcountry SC Promise Zone, which includes Barnwell County, has created over 250 quality jobs since being designated a Promise Zone in 2015. The investment and resources have provided opportunities for the community to grow over the last year, and I look forward to seeing the positive impact of the Promise ZOne in the future." “Many Promise Zone’s—like Hartford’s North End—face tremendous challenges battling poverty, homelessness, unemployment, and even violence,” said Larson. “The Promise Zone designation assures priority consideration for federal funding and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers, but I firmly believe we can do more. This bill will encourage businesses to locate within and hire residents from the Zone. I commend Chairman Rogers for his partnership as well as Mayor Luke Bronin, Thea Montanez, and local leaders like our ‘06120 Delegation’ for their dedication to improving the lives of North End residents. Every American deserves the dignity that comes from having a job, and this bill will help make that a reality for men and women who are most in need. “ “Coal country has suffered devastating and economically debilitating impacts from the downturn in the coal industry. In Kentucky’s coalfields, we’ve lost nearly 11,000 coal mining jobs since 2009, making the effort to revitalize and rebuild a difficult, uphill battle,” said Rogers. “I am proud of the efforts that local leaders have already undertaken to leverage the Promise Zone designation in Eastern Kentucky, and with this legislation, we can take those efforts to the next level. I am proud to partner with this bipartisan group of members in introducing this bill, which will encourage new businesses to establish roots in the coalfields where they will find some of hardest working, dedicated workforces in the country.” “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan bill that will bring more jobs and economic investment to designated Promise Zones,” said Cohen. “Memphis is unfortunately ranked in the top ten of the most economically distressed cities in the United States and has the second highest unemployment rate of metropolitan areas with more than a million people. So being from Memphis, I realize the importance of the Promise Zone program to reduce concentrated poverty and increase the economic vitality of Memphis and similar cities that could be designated Promise Zone areas.” The Promise Zone Job Creation Act was originally introduced by Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) in the 113th Congress. This bipartisan, bicameral effort will establish employment tax credits and bonus depreciation to enable businesses and residents to realize more immediate economic benefits. The Promise Zone Job Creation Act will: Create employment tax credits: This legislation would create an employment credit to be provided to businesses that employ Promise Zone residents. Credit would apply to the first $15,000 of qualifying zone employee wages. The credit rate would be 20% for zone residents who are employed within the zone and 10% for zone residents employed outside of the zone. Establish Bonus depreciation: Qualified property placed in service within the zone would be eligible for additional first-year depreciation of 100% of the adjusted basis of the property. This includes tangible property with a recovery period of 20 years or less, water utility property, certain computer software, and qualified leasehold improvement property. The property must be placed in service within the zone while the zone designation is in effect. More information on Promise Zones can be found at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or by visiting https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/promise-zones/promise-zones-overview/.
03.22.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on this morning's attack in Brussels: "News of this morning's terror attack in Brussels left me shocked and saddened. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the people of Belgium. As we mourn, we can never lose sight of the fact that we are in a Global War on Terrorism. "I am grateful that yesterday, with the leadership of Rep. Lee Zeldin (NY-01), the House passed legislation to close security gaps that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally."
03.22.2016	This week, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the House floor about the President's trip to Cuba: Enriching the Cuban Military The President's Trip to Cuba
03.16.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Obama announced his nominee for the Supreme Court: “I support the Senate majority standing firm to have the next President to fill the Supreme Court vacancy. The voters should know the consequence of their vote. A liberal appointee will reinterpret the Constitution beyond its meaning—denying citizens the right to vote for legislators to develop laws. A conservative appointee, in the tradition of Justice Antonin Scalia, will promote the Constitutional role of a justice to interpret law, not make law.”
03.15.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House unanimously passed H. Con. Res. 75: "For too long, this Administration has downplayed the atrocities committed by ISIL. We can no longer turn a bling eye- ISIL is committing war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide against Christians and other religious minorities. I am grateful to be a co-sponsor of H. Con. Res. 75, legislation that clearly denounces ISIL. Christians and other religious minorities have every right to practice their faith in their homeland, and we must hold ISIL accountable for their horrific actions."
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congressman Joe Wilson with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-jobs, pro-growth policies in the first session of the 114th Congress. This marks the 28th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Wilson for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” “I am grateful to receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce today,” Wilson said. While Congress has made significant progress in creating jobs and expanding right to work laws, we must do more to reduce harmful regulatory burdens which destroy jobs. I look forward to continuing to fight for limited government and expanded freedom this year.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. Congressman Wilson scored an 89%--the highest score of the South Carolina House delegation. During the first session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 14 Senate votes and 20 House votes, including votes reestablishing Trade Promotion Authority, reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank, and lifting the crude oil export ban. Also scored were votes in support of the first long-term transportation law in a decade and votes to make permanent tax provisions that would have regularly expired. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. Image: Congressman Wilson receives the Spirit of Enterprise from U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue.
03.10.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on Chairman Jeff Miller’s decision not to seek re-election: “After hearing Veterans Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller (FL- 01)’s announcement that he plans to retire from Congress this year, I want to recognize and honor his tireless dedication for veterans and military families. I will always cherish being his seatmate on the Armed Services Committee where he was a champion for a strong military to achieve peace through strength. Roxanne and I will forever treasure Vicki and Jeff as friends.”
03.06.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Nancy Reagan: “As a grateful former staff member of the Reagan Administration, I will always appreciate the devotion of Nancy Davis Reagan to her husband and the American people. She should always be cherished for inspiration of strength for all Americans, that good will prevail.”
03.03.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will hold two Veterans Fairs in March, one in the Aiken-Barnwell area and one in the Midlands, to bring potential employers and federal agencies in direct contact with veterans. Wilson is committed to serving our nation’s heroes: “I am grateful to serve so many service members, military families, and veterans who call the Second Congressional District home,” Wilson said. “In 2013, I started holding these events to help veterans find jobs and receive assistance in transitioning from military to civilian life.” “As a retiree from the Army Reserve and the South Carolina Army National Guard, with four sons who have served in U.S. Military, assisting veterans will always be a top priority of mine,” Wilson said. All Veterans and their families are invited to attend this year’s Veterans Fairs. Below are the dates and locations for the two events: Midlands Veterans Fair Tuesday, March 8, 2016 10AM – 2PM Brookland Baptist Church Health and Wellness Center 1066 Sunset Blvd West Columbia, SC 29169 Aiken-Barnwell Veterans Fair in collaboration with Operation Palmetto Employment Thursday, March 10, 2016 10AM – 2PM SCANG Armory in Graniteville 365 Bettis Academy Road Graniteville, SC 29829 For additional information, please visit www.joewilson.house.gov/veteransfairs ###
02.23.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the President’s proposal to close the Guantanamo Bay Detention Camp: “The President’s dangerous proposal to close Guantanamo and transfer terrorists to locations in the United States, potentially South Carolina, is unlawful. The 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), signed by the President, clearly bars the President from closing Guantanamo and transferring detainees to a domestic location, which would put American families at risk of attack by the most dangerous terrorists. This is yet another example of President Obama’s willful disregard for our laws and constitutional authority. “The detainees housed in Guantanamo are the most dangerous terrorists. They should not be housed at the Charleston Naval Brig—adjacent to schools, churches, neighborhoods, and ports. Congress and the American public have spoken on this issue and it is time that the President listened.” ICYMI: Last August, Senator Scott, Congressman Wilson, and other members of the South Carolina delegation sent a letter to President Obama regarding his consideration of using the Charleston Naval Brig to house detainees. View the letter here.
02.22.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the 2016 Congressional Art Competition at Irmo High School on Monday, February 22: “I am honored to announce that the office is now accepting submissions for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. For the past 34 years, this competition has inspired and encouraged young artists,” Wilson said. “I know how much talent there is in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, and I encourage all high school students to participate. I look forward to seeing the entries.” Handout available here. Wilson is serving as Co-Chair of this national competition and is the first member of the South Carolina delegation to hold the honor. He is also a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and is a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus. Entries for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition are due to Congressman Wilson’s district offices in the Midlands or Aiken-Barnwell by close of business by April 22, 2016. Criteria for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition is available online at www.joewilson.house.gov/art-competition. Questions? Contact Mariah Miller in the Midlands office at 803-939-0041.
02.09.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget proposal: “It is sad to me that throughout his two terms, the President has never proposed a budget that balances. The President’s record $4.1 trillion budget grows our national debt and passes the buck to our children and grandchildren. We need meaningful reforms that will create jobs and support national defense—not new taxes which would increase the gas tax by 24 cents a gallon. “The President’s Budget Proposal is just that—a proposal. I am grateful that we have strong conservative leadership in Speaker Paul Ryan and Budget Chairman Tom Price who will shape a responsible budget that strengthens national security and protects American families.”
02.09.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the President’s Budget Request terminated funding to the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication facility (MOX) at the Savannah River Site: “Terminating funding to the MOX facility is yet another example of the President’s refusal to see the facts. The MOX facility is crucial to our environmental clean-up missions, which produces green fuel, and national security. This decision to eliminate funding to the MOX facility is counterproductive and short-sighted. Fact: Support for MOX is bipartisan, with former New Mexico Governor and Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson and former Senator Richard Lugar both advocating for the facility. Fact: The MOX facility is 70 percent completed. Fact: Processing plutonium through the MOX facility is the only way to uphold the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement, our nuclear non-proliferation agreement with the Russian Federation. Fact: MOX is the only viable method for eliminating plutonium at this time. Proposed alternatives, like down blending, require the use of the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP). WIPP is closed due to safety concerns and has no timeline for reopening. Fact: This Administration has attempted to stall or halt progress to the MOX facility multiple times already. Fact: Closing the MOX facility will make South Carolina a de facto permanent repository for nuclear waste. The facts are clear—we must protect MOX from misplaced attacks that will have serious repercussions for American families.” View Wilson’s past statements on MOX here. Last week, former Senator Lugar said, ‘The facility here in South Carolina is about 70 percent completed, and it’s absolutely vital to the safety of the United States of America, as well as the rest of the world, that we complete it.” Last year, former Secretary Richardson sent a letter Senator Harry Reid, advocating for completion of the MOX facility to support our agreement with Russia. “Regardless of vague pledges to ‘talk to the Russians’ – which is all anyone says in Hill testimony everywhere – any non-MOX ‘alternative’ violates our landmark agreement,” he wrote.
02.03.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified before the House Budget Committee, requesting resources for critical infrastructure at the Savannah River Site (SRS). “SRS is a critical to our national security and environmental clean-up missions,” Wilson said. “We must ensure that it receives sufficient funding to carry out its mission.” Click here to view a video of Congressman Wilson’s remarks to the Budget Committee: Excerpts from Congressman Wilson’s testimony are included below: “I am honored to serve the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, which includes the Army’s training base at Fort Jackson in the Midlands, where we welcome new recruits from all over the country. I also represent the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell, which plays a vital role in our national security and nuclear non-proliferation. Each of these installations provides unique services to our country and requires our support. “It is critical that we continue our funding for the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX), currently 70 percent completed at SRS. This facility is our only viable method at this time of disposing of weapons-grade plutonium and our country’s only means to honor the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement we have with the Russian Federation. “In addition to MOX, the Savannah River Site is home to a host of other Department of Energy environmental cleanup missions. H-Canyon provides our country with the ability to process highly radioactive material and is the nation’s only production scale nuclear chemical separations plant. The Tank Farm, Defense Waste Processing Facility, and, soon, the Salt Waste Processing Facility all play vital roles in safely disposing of millions of gallons of radioactive nuclear waste which was vital for victory in the Cold War that still remains on site. “Finally, the Savannah River Site is home to the Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL). The Laboratory supports our nation’s ability to produce tritium, nuclear forensics, and monitoring and detection capabilities for nuclear non-proliferation. It also enhances technologies for the nuclear clean-up mission at SRS and around the country, including ways to safely store and transport high-level radioactive waste. Finally, the Site facilitates international partnerships, such as our cooperation with the Tokyo Electric Power Company in the remediation of Fukushima. “I respect the difficult choices this Committee must make in the coming days and weeks. As you begin the Fiscal Year 2017 budgetary process, I ask that you consider the men and women involved in the critical national security missions being carried out at Fort Jackson as well as the Savannah River Site. These individuals are dedicated to their country and putting service before self. “I urge you to continue your support for the unique missions at Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site that keep American families safe.”
02.03.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified before the House Budget Committee, requesting resources for the Army’s training base at Fort Jackson in the Midlands. “As the largest initial entry training facility for the U.S. Army, Fort Jackson is a vital component of our national security and a valued member of our Midlands community,” Wilson said. “We must ensure that it receives sufficient funding to carry out its mission.” Click hereto view a video of Congressman Wilson’s remarks to the Budget Committee: Excerpts from Congressman Wilson’s testimony are included below: “I am honored to serve the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, which includes the Army’s training base at Fort Jackson in the Midlands, where we welcome new recruits from all over the country. I also represent the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell, which plays a vital role in our national security and nuclear non-proliferation. Each of these installations provides unique services to our country and requires our support. “Fort Jackson is the largest Initial Entry Training Center in the U.S. Army, training 38 percent of the Army’s Basic Combat Training load and 54 percent of the women entering the Army each year. Fort Jackson’s primary mission is training thousands of disciplined, motivated service members. “Each year an additional 10,000 soldiers attend the U.S. Army Soldier Support Institute, the Army Chaplaincy Center, the National Center for Credibility Assessment, and the Army’s Drill Sergeant School—all critical missions housed at Fort Jackson. The positive impact of Fort Jackson also extends beyond active-duty soldiers, employing nearly 3,500 civilians and providing services for over 46,000 retirees and their family members. “I respect the difficult choices this Committee must make in the coming days and weeks. As you begin the Fiscal Year 2017 budgetary process, I ask that you consider the men and women involved in the critical national security missions being carried out at Fort Jackson as well as the Savannah River Site. These individuals are dedicated to their country and putting service before self. “I urge you to continue your support for the unique missions at Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site that keep American families safe.”
02.02.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives failed to override the President’s veto of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, critical legislation that would repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood: “I am grateful to Speaker Paul Ryan and Budget Chairman Tom Price for exercising every option available to repeal the job-destroying Obamacare and protect life by defunding Planned Parenthood. Even though the votes were not sufficient, Members of Congress are on record. I hope my colleagues in the House will join me as we continue our fight to defend conservative principles.”
01.19.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) invited Congressman Rick Allen (GA-12), Congressman Mick Mulvaney (SC-05), and Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01) on a bipartisan tour of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at the Savannah River Site: “I am grateful to know first-hand the value the MOX facility and the Savannah River Site has to our national security and environmental cleanup missions—value that extends beyond South Carolina—to benefit American families. “Discrepancies in data have overstated the projected costs to complete the MOX facility at the same time they are understating how much of the facility is complete. The best way to assess level of completion is to see it with your own eyes, and that’s why I invited my colleagues in the House to see the importance of the MOX facility themselves. I am honored that Congressman Rick Allen, Congressman Mick Mulvaney, and Congressman Donald Norcross joined me on the tour today. “We also appreciated a visit to K-Area to review the potential of down-blending. It is a bipartisan concern that the shocking example of Yucca Mountain could leave South Carolina as a permanent repository of high-level weapons grade plutonium.” Congressman Rick Allen (GA-12) stated: “I am glad other Members of Congress were able to see the hard work being done right here in the CSRA and solutions the MOX facility will provide once completed. This is a necessary piece of a comprehensive national security plan, and was reauthorized and funded by Congress again late last year. As the only real solution I see for our military grade plutonium, the MOX project is vital. By turning these materials into commercial fuel, we will be able to use the finished products to produce clean energy to power our country and economy. I am proud to work with my colleagues from South Carolina, Rep. Joe Wilson and others, to keep this project moving forward and continue to grow jobs in the Augusta area.”
01.12.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this evening after President Obama concluded his State of the Union address: “As Americans watched the State of the Union, they were hopeful that the President would provide real efforts to defeat ISIS which threatens American families and real reforms to reduce regulations which destroy jobs. Instead they heard more failed promises and empty words. The American people deserve more from their elected officials. I was grateful to hear Governor Nikki Haley’s address a positive change for a more confident America.” Jobs “Today, our national debt is nearly $19 trillion—an inconceivable number that will be left to our children and grandchildren to repay. Right now, 7.9 million Americans are unemployed. Six million Americans would prefer full-time work, but are only able to find part-time jobs. So many American families don’t see the recovery that the President claims we have. “South Carolina families need good job opportunities and want to protect the jobs they have from Washington’s spending problem and overbearing regulations. House Republicans will continue to promote job creation by rolling back harmful regulations and passing positive reforms, like protecting “right to work” laws,” and repealing Obamacare which destroys jobs.” Guantanamo Bay “The job of Guantanamo Bay is to house some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists. Releasing these terrorists to return to the battlefield places American families at risk of attacks.” Gun Control “The President’s legacy of more gun control would not have stopped any of the mass attacks that have saddened our nation. The President should change course and work with Congress to enact meaningful change by reforming mental health and stopping terrorists from attacking American families—not restricting the rights of law-abiding gun owners.”
01.06.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, critical legislation that repeals Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood: “Today is an historic day for conservatives. For the first time ever, we will finally get a bill that repeals Obamacare to the President’s desk—forcing him to defend his broken healthcare law that cut services, raised premiums, and destroyed jobs for hardworking families across America. By repealing and replacing Obamacare with a patient-centered solution, we will protect jobs and cut the federal deficit by half a trillion dollars over the next decade. Additionally, this bill makes a strong stand for the sanctity of life—defunding Planned Parenthood and preventing taxpayer dollars from supporting the abortion industry. “I look forward to working to put conservative legislation on the President’s desk throughout the remainder of the 114th Congress and force the President to defend his failed legacy of big government to the American people.”
01.05.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement of intention to subvert the Constitution by taking executive action to restrict American gun ownership: “The President’s unilateral action on gun regulations is yet another example of his continued disregard for rule of law. The Constitution is clear—only Congress can write laws. “In the coming days and weeks in Congress, I will continue the fight to defend our Second Amendment and our Constitution and will work with Congressman Tim Murphy to advance the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act—which provides meaningful reforms to address the mental health crisis behind gun violence.”
01.04.2016	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced his 2016 Legislative Agenda on Monday at across the Second Congressional District, including Columbia, West Columbia, Aiken, North Augusta, Barnwell, Orangeburg, and Lexington. “I look forward to a new legislative year and continuing our progress to promote limited government and expanded freedom for American families,” Wilson said. Focusing on creating jobs and economic growth, Wilson outlined plans to reduce harmful regulations that destroy jobs. “South Carolina families need good job opportunities and want to protect the jobs they have from overbearing government regulations and Washington’s out of control spending,” Wilson said. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee for Emerging Threats and Capabilities, Wilson is also prioritizing strengthing our nation’s cyber capabilities and promoting our military and veterans. “As our enemies grow more murderous, it is critical to advance peace through strength to protect American families at home. We must support our troops, military families, and veterans to protect our national security and keep South Carolinians and the American people safe from Islamic extremists in the Global War on Terrorism.” Throughout the second session of the 114th Congress, Wilson will advance legislation in the following areas: Create Jobs and Economic Growth by working with local chambers and agencies to bring quality jobs to South Carolina, protecting our “Right to Work” laws, continuing to advocate for the critical missions at the Savannah River Site, and repealing and replacing Obamacare. Reduce Regulations that Harm Jobs by supporting a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution and conservative budgets, cutting taxes to allow families to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and eliminating burdensome government regulations that stifle small businesses and job creation. Strengthen our nation’s cyber capabilities to protect our nation against cyberattacks by elevating Cyber Command to a 4-star Combatant Command, improving our response to emerging cyber threats, and promoting public-private partnerships to encourage innovation. Promote our Military and Veterans by maintaining our military’s responsiveness and capabilities to promote peace through strength, protecting TRICARE benefits and sustaining quality of life for military families, reversing defense sequestration which hollows out the military, supporting National Guard and Reserve units, and ensuring our veterans receive quality healthcare.
12.18.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed a funding bill to keep the government open through the remainder of the fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2016: “This funding bill is a tremendous victory for American families. I am grateful that this legislation fights for our conservative principles—lifts the ban on domestic oil export, prevents new funding for Obamacare, upholds pro-life values, and stops the IRS from suppressing the civic participation of 501(c)(4) organizations. “It also provides critical protections for national security and prevents the President from closing Guantanamo Bay or transferring any detainees. South Carolina families benefit from this legislation: the funding bill also provides key funding for the construction and operation of the MOX facility, gives stability to operations at the Savannah River Site, and supports the thousands of service members and their families at Fort Jackson.”
12.02.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act today. “I am grateful that the Every Student Succeeds Act stands up for conservative values by reducing the federal role in the K-12 education system and empowers parents to make the best educational choices for their children. This legislation is an important first step to restoring local control of education to those best suited to manage our state’s education system—locally elected school boards, teachers, and parents. “I am especially grateful that the Every Student Succeeds Act specifically prohibits the Secretary of Education from forcing or coercing states into adopting Common Core—which is what I set out to accomplish when I introduced the Local Control of Education Act in January.” Congressman Wilson serves on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce.
11.19.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after voting to strengthen our screening process for refugees and protect American families: "On Friday, our nation watched in horror as Paris endured multiple murderous attacks by Islamist radicals. My thoughts and prayers go out to the citizens of France, the oldest ally of the United States. In the last month, the Islamic State is responsible for murdering 224 innocent civilians on a Russian jetliner, murdering more than 40 in suicide bombings in Beirut, and in multiple attacks in Paris, killing 129 innocents. It is clear that the Islamic State knows no boundary or restriction when it comes to attacking liberty around the world and has announced that it is targeting Washington and Rome," Wilson said. "The President plans to admit thousands of Syrian refugees across our borders, despite warnings from Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and FBI Director James Corney that it is impossible to thoroughly screen refugees. "We can be compassionate to refugees seeking freedom and a better life, but, in doing so, cannot risk the safety and security of American families. I was grateful to vote in favor of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act, legislation that would develop the strongest national security vetting process in history to protect American families." The House passed H.R. 4038 by a vote of 289 to 137.
11.12.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) held press conferences today in West Columbia and North Augusta to announce the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) Reform Act. This critical legislation will rectify the bias in the NLRB by adding a sixth member—establishing equal representation for each political party. It will benefit employers and employees and will provide greater stability in the workforce by reining in the activist general counsel and enforcing timely decision-making. “For too long, the partisan nature of the National Labor Relations Board has caused instability in how the NLRB will interpret labor policy rules, harming employees and destroying jobs. “Businesses, employees, and American families need stability and to be treated fairly in the workplace. Unfortunately, the President’s ‘Big Labor Bully’ has constantly abused its authority by overregulating and restricting right-to-work states,” Wilson said. “South Carolina has seen first-hand the harmful effects of an activist NLRB after they attempted to stall Boeing’s expansion in our state, threatening thousands of jobs at the site and for subcontractors in the Second Congressional District—something that would not have been possible under an impartial NLRB. “A non-partisan board would restore fairness and protect the rights of workers and allow for growth in our private sector through job creation. South Carolina knows the benefits for workers of being non-union with the right-to-work law, which resulted in our state being America’s leading exporter of cars and manufacturer and exporter of tires.” Ted Pitts, CEO of the South Carolina Chamber of Commerce added: “There is no doubt that one of the reasons that South Carolina has been so successful at attracting and retaining business is because of our strong workforce and right to work laws that are good for employees and employers. However as business continues to grow in the Palmetto state, South Carolina companies are becoming a bigger target for labor unions. We thank Congressman Wilson for his efforts to rein in the NLRB and make it more accountable to the American people.” In West Columbia, Congressman Wilson made the announcement at Nephron Pharmaceuticals where he was joined by CEO Lou Kennedy. In North Augusta, Congressman Wilson made the announcement at Communigraphics, where he was hosted by State Representative Bill Hixon (R-North Augusta) and local employers promoting jobs. The NLRB Reform Act will be officially introduced in the House of Representatives on Monday, November 16, 2015. It has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN). More Information, including bill text, available here.
11.11.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee for Emerging Threats and Capabilities, today released the following statement as America honors its heroes this Veterans Day: “Today, we gather to honor veterans across the nation for their service to our great country. While we specifically recognize them today, we are grateful for their bravery each and every day,” Congressman Wilson said. “This Veterans Day, let us all never forget the sacrifices that take place to secure and preserve our nation’s liberty and justice. God bless our veterans and God bless America. Freedom is not free.” This morning, Congressman Wilson will attend the Veterans Day Parade in Columbia, South Carolina, and will attend the War Dog Memorial Dedication in the South Carolina Veterans Memorial Park this afternoon.
11.05.2015	Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced the SPY Car Study Act of 2015 today. The bill directs government partners and private auto manufacturers to conduct a study on security and privacy threats in motor vehicles. “Throughout the past few months, we’ve seen widespread reports of cyber vulnerabilities in vehicles that threaten the safety and privacy of American families. To solve these emerging threats, we need to promote collaboration across both the public and private sectors,” Wilson said. “Vehicle safety is of great importance to me because South Carolina is America’s leading exporter on cars and tires. I am proposing the SPY Car Study Act because it is irresponsible to mandate changes in a developing field before accurately assessing the situation. “The bipartisan SPY Car Study Act requires a study of isolation measures between critical and non-critical software, detection protocol for malicious behavior, techniques to discourage and mitigate malicious intrusions, and best practices to secure private data collected by electronic systems.” More information, including bill text, available here.
10.29.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the entire South Carolina Republican delegation supported the election of Congressman Paul Ryan to Speaker of the House: “I have been grateful to serve with Congressman Paul Ryan, a proven conservative, throughout my time in Congress and can attest to his commitment to conservative values and strength of service to the First District of Wisconsin and every corner of our nation, which he visited while campaigning,” Wilson said. “On Wednesday, The National Journal cited Ryan has become a ‘budget-slashing fiend.’ I look forward to Speaker Ryan’s leadership as we work to advance meaningful, conservative change for the American people, limiting government and expanding freedom.”
10.28.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after voting to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States: “I am grateful that the House of Representatives voted to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank to create jobs. More than 60 countries offer their own version of the Export-Import Bank, and it is critical that South Carolina’s businesses have the same opportunity to compete in the global economy and create jobs, such Zeus of Orangeburg and Aiken, Prysmian of Lexington, AGY of Aiken, Thermal Engineering of Columbia, and Charleston Aluminum of Gaston,” Wilson said. “This institution is critical to leveling the playing field and allowing South Carolina businesses to remain competitive in an ever growing global economic market creating jobs for South Carolina families.” In 2014, the Export-Import Bank supported 164,000 jobs in the United States, and nearly 90 percent of its transactions benefited small businesses. In June, the following businesses and organizations in South Carolina sent a letter to Congress, voicing their support for the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank: AME, Inc. American Shipping & Logistics Group Be Green Packaging Beacon Allied Resources, Inc. Bridge to Life, Inc. Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce Chester County Chamber of Commerce Compass International Company Inc. Customs Brokers & Freight Forwarders Association of Charleston, SC Duer/Carolina Coil, Inc. Greater Columbia Chamber of Commerce Greater Summerville/Dorchester County Chamber of Commerce Greenville Chamber of Commerce Hilton Head Island-Bluffton Chamber of Commerce Innovative Global Supply, LLC John S. James Co. Kershaw County Chamber of Commerce Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce Scout Boats Shipco Transport South Carolina Chamber of Commerce South Carolina Manufacturers Alliance South Carolina Ports Authority Spartanburg Area Chamber of Commerce Tri-County Regional Chamber of Commerce (bolded companies are located in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina)
10.28.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after voting in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: “I am grateful the House passed the Bipartisan Budget Act today. This bill provides adequate funding for our troops, their families, and veterans, and offers service members certainty for the future. Additionally, this bill will create jobs by building a healthy economy that implements common-sense reforms to our entitlement programs, protects Social Security, prevents our government from defaulting on its obligations, and stands up for conservative principles by dismantling a key provision of Obamacare.,” Wilson said. “Most importantly, since it is fully paid for, this act will reign in liberal, out-of-control spending.” The Bipartisan Budget Act passed the House on October 28, 2015 by a vote of 266 to 167.
10.22.2015	Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding President Obama’s veto of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. “I am disappointed in the President’s decision to veto the NDAA—a bill that provides for our service members and equips our troops to fight serious threats to American families, like the Islamic State. Providing for our military should be bipartisan to deter violence around the world and promote peace through strength,” Wilson said. “The President is vetoing this bill over abstract budgetary reasons, and by doing so, misses the positive impact this bill will have for our troops. I support the NDAA because it directly supports our service members and military families in the Second Congressional District. “I encourage all Members of Congress to join me with bipartisan support for the NDAA and pledge to override this veto. We must override this veto to support our troops and implement common-sense reforms, such as updating the military acquisition process and improving the military retirement system.” The NDAA passed the House on October 1, 2015, by a vote of 270 to 156 and passed the Senate on October 6, 2015, by a vote of 70 to 27. This year’s NDAA provided for a strong cyber defense, safeguarding technological superiority, enabling Special Operations for the future, providing resources to combat terrorism and unconventional warfare and providing critical resources for the Armed Forces and their families.
10.21.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Congressman Paul Ryan, Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means, announced his candidacy for Speaker of the House of Representatives: “Congress needs a positive leader as we work to advance meaningful, conservative change for the American people limiting government and expanding freedom. Chairman Ryan will be a unifying, positive voice for American families with his proven dedication for future generations,” Wilson said. Elections for Speaker of the House will be held October 29.
10.08.2015	Friends, Last weekend, South Carolinians across the Second Congressional District and our state faced record rainfall, leading to widespread destruction and flooding. Our thoughts and prayers go out to those who lost their lives in this tragedy and all families affected by the devastating flood. The State of South Carolina received a major federal disaster declaration for three counties in the Second Congressional District: Richland, Lexington and Orangeburg. As conditions develop, more counties may be included. This declaration means that families can receive individual assistance for: Temporary Housing Assistance Repair Assistance Replacement Assistance Permanent or Semi-Permanent Construction What Now? Register your damage as soon as possible with the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) by visiting www.disasterassistance.gov or calling 1-800-621-3362. When you call, have the following information ready: Social Security Number A description of your losses that were caused by the disaster Insurance information Directions to your damaged property A telephone number where you can be contacted Contact your insurance company. Document the damage to your home, vehicle, and property with photos and videos. Reach out and help your neighbors get registered. As you begin the clean-up and recovery process, keep all receipts. This may help you with your disaster assistance claims. What happens next? After submitting your application for assistance, you will receive a FEMA application number. Within a few days, FEMA will contact you and will send a representative to your home to inspect the damage. When the inspector arrives, please have the following ready: Personal identification Proof of Ownership Deed or official record Title number from purchase of dwelling Mortgage payment book Real property insurance Tax receipts or property tax bill Proof of Occupancy Utility bill Merchant’s statement Employer’s statement Current Driver / Non-Driver’s License The inspector will not make the final determination. The approval process will take approximately 7 to 10 days. The Congressional Office is here to assist you with this process in whatever way we can. Please contact us at 803-939-0041 or visit www.joewilson.house.gov/flood if we can help. What about schools, hospitals, and roads? Repairs to public buildings, roads, and critical infrastructure are covered under Public Assistance funding and will be requested by state and local governments. The Congressional office is here to assist with these requests in whatever way we can. What about my business? Contact the Small Business Administration Disaster Loans Program at 1-800-659-2955 or email disastercustomerservice@sba.gov to learn what resources are available to help you repair and rebuild your business. Avoid Scams and Price Gouging Unfortunately, after times of tragedy, people attempt to scam those affected or impersonate legitimate officials. Some good guidelines: FEMA inspectors will carry identification and will not ask for money Get repair information in writing, and be wary of contractors who show up at your door Don’t be pressured into buying Never pay in full up front Report all scams to S.C. Department of Consumer Affairs: 1-800-922-1594. Additionally, price gouging is against the law. Report suspected price gouging to the South Carolina Office of the Attorney General at info@scag.gov. IRS Extensions Businesses and individuals are eligible for some tax relief from the IRS. If your family or business had an October 15, 2015, tax-return filing deadline, you are automatically granted an extension until February of next year. If your family or business had an October 1, 2015, deadline for payments to the IRS, you now have until October 16, 2015, to make payments without any penalty. Other available relief includes claiming disaster-related losses on income tax returns, and waived fees when requesting past tax returns. If you have any questions about the tax relief available to you, please contact the IRS disaster hotline at: 1-866-562-5227. Our community has been tested, yet we have so many blessings in our first responders, state employees, and countless volunteers. Please contact us if we can answer questions, direct you to appropriate resources, or assist in any way possible. God Bless South Carolina.
10.06.2015	The State of South Carolina received a major federal disaster declaration for three counties in the Second Congressional District: Richland, Lexington, and Orangeburg. Other counties may be added at a later date. This declaration means that families can receive individual assistance for: Temporary Housing Assistance Repair Assistance Replacement Assistance Permanent or Semi-Permanent Construction What Now? Register your damage as soon as possible with FEMA: Visit: www.m.fema.gov Call: 1-800-621-3362 Contact your insurance company. Document the damage to your home, vehicle, and property with photos and videos. Help your neighbors get registered. What happens next? FEMA will contact you and will send a representative to your home to inspect the damage. The approval process will take approximately 7 to 10 days. What about schools, hospitals, and roads? Repairs to public buildings and critical infrastructure are covered under Public Assistance funding and will be requested by state and local governments. What about my business? Contact the Small Business Administration at 1-800-659-2955 or email disastercustomerservice@sba.gov for disaster recovery information. Download this information as a PDF.
10.04.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement regarding the flood and devastating conditions throughout South Carolina: “My thoughts and prayers are with all affected by the devastating flooding in the Midlands and in Aiken and Barnwell counties. Our community is facing overwhelming damage, with thousands of families without power and flood damage to homes, businesses, and vehicles. I especially appreciate the level of devastation in that Wilton Road of Springdale, named by my grandmother, where six generations of our family have lived, has washed away for the first time since it was built. “I encourage everyone to follow all safety precautions—stay indoors, stay off the roads, and follow directives from police, fire, and other emergency services personnel. “I am grateful for all of our first responders and aid organizations that are providing critical services to our state during this time and to Governor Nikki Haley for her leadership.” The offices in the Midlands (803-939-0041) and in the Aiken-Barnwell area (803-642-6416) are available if you or your family need any assistance. Additionally, please examine the following resources: City of Columbia Water Advisory SC Department of Transportation Road Conditions Flood Information from the South Carolina Emergency Management Division Flood Information from FEMA Shelters and other resources from the Red Cross County Government Resources: Aiken County Office of Emergency Management: 803-642-1623 Barnwell County Emergency Management Agency: 803-259-7013 Lexington County Emergency Preparedness Division: 803-785-2449 Orangeburg County Office of Emergency Services: 803-533-6265 Richland County Emergency Services: 803-576-3400
10.01.2015	Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. “At this time, when we face worldwide conflicts with direct threats to American families, it is critical to provide our Armed Forces with the resources they need to protect our nation. It includes meaningful reforms to the compensation and benefits system, increases accountability in the acquisitions process, and empowers post commanders to permit members of the Armed Forces to carry firearms on military installations. “I am grateful that this legislation funds the critical national security missions at the Savannah River Site, and allows for the continuation of its environmental cleanup mission. It also contains vital funding language supporting the construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at SRS. “I am thankful that this legislation fully funds Fort Jackson and its critical role as the largest initial entry training facility for the U.S. Army. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am especially pleased that the NDAA provides for robust cyber capabilities, incentives for public-private information sharing, and fully resources the U.S. Cyber Command programs. It is critical that we do everything we can to enhance our cyber capabilities, including a comprehensive cyber defense and deterrence system.” The NDAA passed the House by a vote of 270 to 156. The Senate is expected to take up this critical legislation next week.
09.30.2015	Congressman Wilson issued the following statement after voting against the motion to concur in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 719, the Continuing Resolution for FY 2016: "When I was elected to Congress, I promised to make a difference and create meaningful change, which is why I could not vote for another stop-gap measure that kicked the problem down the road for another few months or continued to provide funding to an organization that sells tissue and organs from aborted babies. "Our critical national security missions at Savannah River Site and our military families at Fort Jackson deserve stability—not a temporary solution. American families need a long term budget that ends the devastating effects of defense sequestration, supports our values, and reduces our national debt. "In the coming weeks, House Republicans face a difficult challenge as we work to pass a budget that protects individual freedoms and promotes limited-government solutions that create jobs."
09.18.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015: “I was sickened after watching the videos of Planned Parenthood officials appearing to discuss the sale of aborted babies for profit. I was further disappointed after an inspection of the Midlands Planned Parenthood clinic revealed multiple health violations. The Defund Planned Parenthood Act defunds Planned Parenthood and redirects taxpayer dollars to qualified health centers that prioritize patient care, share our values, and have respect for life,” Wilson said. “I am dedicated to protecting the sanctity of life.” Congressman Wilson is a co-sponsor of the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 241 to 187. Wilson also voted in favor of H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which passed the House by a vote of 248 to 177.
09.11.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement following the House of Representatives failed to pass H.R. 3461, the to Approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, relating to the nuclear program of Iran. “Today’s vote on the Iranian nuclear deal is of historic proportions. If allowed, the deal would economically and militarily reenergize a regime bent on promoting murderous attacks on democracies all over the world. I voted against the Iran Deal, and urged my colleagues to do the same. I am grateful that our effort was successful in the House, but disappointed that it stalled in the Senate. This is a dangerous deal for America and the world, and I am committed to exercising every option to stop the sanctions from being lifted.”
09.11.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on fourteenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “Today is a day for remembrance. We remember those nearly 3,000 innocent Americans who were murdered in the terror attacks in New York, Washington, and Pennsylvania, and we remember those who lost their lives to defend democracy and our freedoms. September 11 is the Pearl Harbor of our century. “The Global War on Terror is far from over. ISIL/DAESH continues to barbarically murder innocent people in their attempt to destroy our freedoms. We are grateful for our troops who continue to fight the enemy overseas to end the threat of terrorism and protect American families. “God bless our troops and God bless America. We will never forget September 11 in the Global War on Terrorism.”
08.19.2015	(W. Columbia) – On Monday, August 24, 2015, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual district Bus Tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his work in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Leacy Burke with Congressman Wilson’s office at leacy.burke@mail.house.gov Monday, August 24, 2015 Richland County 9:00AM – Tour of Fairfield Electric – 701 Blythewood Road, Blythewood 10:30AM – Tour of FN Manufacturing – 797 Old Clemson Road, Columbia 11:50AM – Lunch at Doc’s BBQ – 1601 Shop Road, Columbia 12:50PM – Tour of Providence Hospital, Forest Acres – 2435 Forest Drive, Columbia 2:00PM – Tour of Midlands Technical College – 316 S. Beltline Boulevard, Columbia 3:00PM – Tour of Westinghouse – 5801 Bluff Road, Hopkins 4:20PM – Tour of the University of South Carolina Alumni Center – 1600 Gervais Street, Columbia Tuesday, August 25, 2015 Aiken County 9:20AM – Tour of Recleim – 133 Marshall Street, Graniteville 10:40AM – Tour of MTU America – 660 Bettis Academy Road, Graniteville 12:10PM – Aiken Chamber of Commerce Ambassador Meeting – 1000 Woodside Plantation Drive, Aiken 1:15PM – Visit Aiken High School – 449 Rutlant Drive, Aiken 2:30PM – Tour of Zeus Industrial Products – 2370 Levels Church Road, Aiken 4:00PM – Ribbon-cutting and tour of Dumpster Depot – 2061 University Parkway, Aiken 6:00PM – Town Hall on the Iran Deal and National Security, University of South Carolina Aiken – 471 Aiken Parkway, Aiken Wednesday, August 26, 2015 Lexington County 9:00AM – Tour of Springhill High School – 1169 Broad River Road, Chapin 10:20AM – Visit Irmo Chamber of Commerce – 1235 Columbia Avenue, Irmo 11:45AM – Lunch at Wiz Eatery – 110 West Church Street, Batesburg-Leesville 1:00PM – Tour of Swansea Nucor – 200 Whetstone Road, Swansea 2:15PM – Tour of Avtec Corporate Headquarters –100 Innovation Place, Lexington 3:45PM – Tour of Medical Services of America – 171 Monroe Lane, Lexington 6:00PM – Town Hall on the Iran Deal and National Security, A.C. Flora High School – 1 Falcon Drive, Columbia Thursday, August 27th, 2015 Barnwell and Orangeburg Counties 9:40AM – Tour of Horsehead Corporation – 941 Technology Drive, Barnwell 10:30AM – Tour of Precision Metal Fabricators – 4625 West Street, Williston 11:20AM – Tour of Augusta Fiberglass Coating, Inc. – 86 State Road S-6-549, Blackville 12:30PM – Lunch at Miller’s Bread Basket – 483 Main Street, Blackville 1:40PM – Visit Western Orangeburg County Industrial Park – 6357 Savannah Highway, Livingston 2:40PM – Visit Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College – 3250 St. Matthews Road, Orangeburg 6:00PM – Town Hall on the Iran Deal and National Security, Lexington High School – 2463 Augusta Highway, Lexington
07.27.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced today that he is an original co-sponsor of the Employee Rights Act, legislation that empowers American workers and shields them from unfair treatment in the workplace: “I am grateful to cosponsor the Employee Rights Act. This legislation is critical to empowering American workers and shielding them from unfair treatment in the workplace. The Employee Rights Act establishes firm protections for America’s workers—to not join a union, to have a secret ballot, and, if they choose to join a union, to know how their dues are spent. “South Carolina is a staunch defender of right-to-work protections, even when threatened with multiple lawsuits from the National Labor Relations Board. For years, the President’s Big Labor Bully, the NLRB, has threatened to destroy jobs, invaded employee privacy, and encroached upon worker rights. “We know that job creation and economic growth comes from expanded freedoms and free markets. Right-to-work states, like South Carolina, have seen these benefits first-hand. We need to expand common-sense reforms, like those in the Employee Rights Act to protect American workers and create jobs.” Wilson joined Senator Orrin Hatch, Senator Lamar Alexander, Congressman Tom Price, and Congressman David Rouzer at a press conference earlier today where they introduced the legislation. Wilson serves on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce.
07.20.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement after the United States and Cuba restored diplomatic relations today: “By restoring full diplomatic relations with an oppressive regime, President Obama is throwing the Cuban communist dictatorship a lifeline. Since the United States cut ties with Cuba 54 years ago, the communist governments of the Soviet Union and Venezuela have supported the Cuban regime—the same regime that imprisons and oppresses pro-democracy protestors. The best course is for America to support Cuban patriots that want change,” Wilson said. Congressman Wilson serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
07.14.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Obama announced a nuclear agreement with Iran: “I am disappointed that President Obama has made more concessions when negotiating with the murderous Iranian regime—the very regime that sponsors our enemies and openly calls for the death of Americans and our allies, especially Israel. In the coming days, I look forward to reviewing the agreement in full and holding the Administration accountable. I believe that any agreement with this extremist regime threatens American families, and will be thoroughly reviewed under the bi-partisan leadership of Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engle. “What we do know is that this Administration has made it clear that they are unwilling to accept any input or discussion from Congress or the American people on this troubling agreement. This too is disappointing. The Iranian agreement undoes many of the critical sanctions and embargoes, passed by Congress, which prevented Iran from building a nuclear weapon and supporting terrorist organizations all over the world. The President’s legacy could be an Iran with intercontinental ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads targeting American families and allies. “In an effort to achieve political gain, President Obama has ignored Congress and the American people. It is time we spoke up and reminded him that Iran is not to be trusted,” Wilson said. Congressman Wilson serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
07.10.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Office of Personnel Management Director Katherine Archuleta resigned: “I appreciate Director Katherine Archuleta’s resignation, and believe that it is a positive step forward in restoring the public trust in this Administration. The recent cyberattack at OPM resulted in at least 21.5 million Americans having their personal data exposed, putting their physical and financial security at risk. These breaches are a direct result of failures in leadership to update security protocols and address clear warnings,” Wilson said.
07.08.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. “Over the past few years, the Obama Administration has used a combination of education grants and waivers to coerce states into adopting federal approaches to instructional content, academic standards, and assessments. The Student Success Act returns control of K-12 education to the people best suited to manage our state’s education system—our elected school board members, administrators, teachers, and parents.” “I am grateful that the Student Success Act also includes language from my Local Control of Education Act, prohibiting the federal government from using grants or waivers to mandate, incentivize, or coerce states into adopting uniform assessment standards, like Common Core. What works in New York or California may not work here in South Carolina, and I believe the quality of our children’s education is too high a priority to rely on a one-size-fits-all approach,” Wilson said. Congressman Wilson serves on the House Committee of Education and the Workforce.
06.25.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court affirmed the Fourth Circuit’s decision in King v. Burwell, finding the federal tax subsidies component of the Affordable Care Act are legal. “The Supreme Court’s decision is a startling admission that words do not matter, and I am disappointed in the Court’s ruling. “Obamacare was devised based on the ‘stupidity of American voters’ according to its designer, Jonathan Gruber. Clearly, this continued executive overreach by President Obama is clearly part of a pattern designed to conceal the negative impacts of this failed healthcare law, including denial of services, increased healthcare costs, rising insurance premiums, and destroying jobs. “We know Obamacare is unsustainable. I am committed to repealing this broken healthcare law, building a safety net for people in need, not allowing them to depend on what has proven to be a big-government failure. We should focus on replacing Obamacare with House Budget Chairman Tom Price’s legislation that would repeal Obamacare, improve health care, and protect jobs. In addition, we must have a President that will bring meaningful change for American families,” Wilson said.
06.25.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Speaker John Boehner appointed him to the Conference Committee for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. “I am grateful to support our troops, military families, and veterans. National defense should be the first priority of the national government. I look forward to advancing this critical legislation that bolsters our military, advances our cyber capabilities, and combats the growing terrorist threats America faces. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am committed to working with the entire Conference Committee to advance this bipartisan legislation,” Wilson said. Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Mac Thornberry, made the following statement praising Congressman Wilson’s appointment: “Congressman Joe Wilson is a leader in the House Armed Services Committee, and I am grateful to have him on the Conference Committee. As the current Chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, and past Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, his voice will be valued and respected during conference proceedings,” Thornberry, said.
06.23.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today regarding the Confederate battle flag: “I stand with Senator Tim Scott in calling for the removal of the Confederate battle flag from the Statehouse grounds. Senator Scott’s statement yesterday echoes my beliefs: ‘After the terrible tragedy at Mother Emanuel in Charleston last week, fueled by hate and racism, our hearts were broken. While the Confederate battle flag did not cause this violent act, it is clear that our state and the people of South Carolina have reopened the debate on the flag. There is no doubt that South Carolina has a rich and complex history, and the Confederate battle flag is a part of that. The flag means many things to many people. I do not believe the vast majority of folks who support the flag have hate in their hearts. Their heritage is a part of our state's history, and we should not ignore that,’ Scott said. “The true face of South Carolina at this time is Senator Tim Scott, the first popularly elected African-American U.S. Senator from the South. “My entire family and I ask you join us in praying for the families of State Senator Rev. Clementa Pinckney, Rev. Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, Cynthia Hurd, Susie Jackson, Ethel Lance, Rev. DePayne Middleton-Doctor, Tywanza Sanders, Rev. Daniel Simmons, Sr., Myra Thompson, and the entire Emanuel AME community. God bless them, and God bless South Carolina,” Wilson said.
06.18.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the mass shooting in Charleston, S.C.: “My prayers are with the victims, families, and congregation of the historic Emanuel AME Church after last night’s tragedy in my birthplace, Charleston. "Senator, Pastor Clementa Pinckney will always be appreciated by me as a former State Senate colleague and friend. He was known by all to be a man of God, a man of honor, and a man of strong beliefs. His voice will be missed. I was honored to host him and his fine family several years ago on a tour of the U.S. Capitol. “I am confident in the leadership of Mayor Joe Riley that his proven love for the people of Charleston will prevail as Charlestonians unite in prayer. I am grateful for Chief Greg Mullen, the State Law Enforcement Division, and pray for the suspect to be apprehended swiftly,” Wilson said.
06.18.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015. This legislation will repeal the 2.3 percent medical device excise tax imposed by the Affordable Care Act. “I am grateful to have cosponsored and voted in favor of the Protect Medical Innovation Act. Obamacare’s burdensome tax on medical devices has stifled medical advancements and destroyed jobs. Millions of Americans rely on pacemakers, artificial joints, CAT scan machines and more for their medical care and quality of life. This bipartisan legislation makes it clear—more taxes are not the answer to affordable healthcare options for American families. “Eliminating the medical device tax is a critical step in repealing this broken law, and I remain committed to repealing and replacing Obamacare in its entirety,” Wilson said. Wilson was an original cosponsor of the Protect Medical Innovation Act.
06.16.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2596, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. Congressman Wilson’s Cyberattack Standards Study Act was included in this bill as an amendment. “I am grateful the Cyberattack Standards Study Act was included in the passage of this year’s Intelligence Authorization Act. We need a clear, unified system of measurement for cyberattacks across all government agencies and military branches. By putting everyone on the same page, we can have an effective and rapid response to cyberattacks. Cyber is a new domain of warfare and a critical part of our national defense and intelligence gathering process. “This year’s Intelligence Authorization Act strengthens our nation’s defense and sustains critical capabilities to fight terrorism, counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and support our troops at home and abroad. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am especially pleased that this bill helps address the growing threats posed by cyberattacks and our enemies’ use of advanced technologies. I will continue working to advance legislation that bolsters national security and ensures the safety of American families.” View Wilson’s floor remarks on his amendment here.
06.11.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2146, which included the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act. “As the leading exporter of cars and tires, South Carolinians know the benefits of international trade. By reaching international markets through trade agreements, we are creating economic opportunities for businesses of all sizes across South Carolina. The benefits of trade are clear—more jobs and higher wages—making South Carolina an even better place to live and work. “This was not a vote for or against a specific trade agreement, but simply a vote to give Congress final approval in future trade agreements, increase transparency, and establish accountability over the President’s trade negotiations. “Increasing trade opportunities helps South Carolina create jobs and establish certainty in trade negotiations in an increasingly competitive global market. In today’s interconnected economy, free trade is crucial to protecting America’s economic power,” Wilson said. Key facts about Free Trade and South Carolina: There are an estimated 559, 329 trade-related jobs in S.C. –74, 598 in the Second District. These jobs are across all sectors of our economy, including manufacturing, agriculture, and service. S.C. trade-related employment grew 4.6 times faster than total state employment. South Carolina is the home of BMW’s largest manufacturing plan in the world, and the Michelin’ Lexington facilities are their largest investment in the world, indicating the success of German and French manufacturing. Small and medium sized businesses are 85 percent of South Carolina’s exporters—and most likely to be positively affected by TPA. $8.6 billion of S.C. exports—or 14 percent of our GDP—went to free trade partners with South Carolina being America’s leading exporter of automobiles and tires. Agricultural exports support 6,900 jobs in our state and account for $913 million of S.C. exports. Free trade cuts prices on imported goods and increases consumer choice for South Carolina families. Key facts from: “How South Carolina’s Economy Benefits from International Trade & Investment”
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing the Cyberattack Standards Study Act in the House of Representatives today. The bill directs the Director of National Intelligence to conduct a study on cyberattack standards of measurement: “Recent cyberattacks targeting personal data of American citizens and U.S. government websites make it clear—cyber is a new domain of warfare. These cyberattacks are a sober reminder that Congress, and all government agencies, need to work together to better protect public and private networks. The complicated nature of cyber defense means we need a clear standard of measurement for assessing the damage of attacks to our citizens and affected systems. “My bill would direct the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Secretary of Defense to conduct a study to define a method for quantifying a cyber incident so we can determine an appropriate response. This bill will be the first of many steps in building a comprehensive cyber defense system,” Wilson said. A copy of Wilson’s bill, the Cyberattack Standards Study Act, can be found here. Click here to view Congressman Wilson’s remarks on the House floor about the bill.
06.09.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 235, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act to prevent discriminatory taxes on the Internet and on Internet access. “The Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act is crucial to driving innovation and protecting the growth of our digital economy. We use the Internet for all aspects of day-to-day life, whether searching for jobs, furthering education, growing small businesses, or connecting with family and friends. It is time to make the ban on taxing Internet access permanent so millions of Americans can access and conduct business online without bearing an excessive tax burden. I was grateful to cosponsor and vote in favor of this important legislation,” Wilson said. View the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act here.
05.29.2015	W. COLUMBIA, S.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after attending the change of command at Fort Jackson today: “With its designation as a ‘Purple Heart City’ and the ‘Most Military-Friendly Community in America,’ it is clear the Midlands values and supports the important work at Fort Jackson. I would like to commend Major General Bradley Becker on a job well done and for his dedication to our community. I am honored to welcome Brigadier General Roger Cloutier to Fort Jackson, and look forward to working with him as he manages the largest initial entry training facility in the U.S. Army. I know firsthand of Fort Jackson’s attributes from my 31 years of Army training there and three of my sons in the Army have benefitted from Fort Jackson training.” Wilson said. As the largest initial training facility, Fort Jackson trains 50 percent of entrants to the Army’s Basic Combat Training and 60 percent of the women entering the Army each year. Congressman Wilson, whose district includes Fort Jackson, serves on the House Armed Services Committee, where he is Chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee. Wilson served in the U.S. Army Reserves and S.C. Army National Guard for 31 years, and all four of his sons currently serve in the military.
05.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: "Today, we remember and honor those who have served this nation to protect and defend the freedoms we cherish. As we reflect on the heroism and devotion of the many brave service men and women who gave their lives in defense of our nation, we must never forget to thank and pray for their families and loved ones. This Memorial Day, let us take the time to show our appreciation for the service and sacrifice of America’s heroes." Congressman Joe Wilson is the son of a Flying Tiger of World War II. Congressman Wilson is a veteran of the United States Army Reserve and the South Carolina Army National Guard, and he has four sons currently serving in the U.S. military.
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the winners of the 2015 Annual Congressional Art Competition for the South Carolina’s Second Congressional District: First Place: Ms. Melaney Mottsey, Aiken High School Second Place: Ms. Aika Ishimori, Irmo High School Third Place: Ms. Michaela Shaffner, Irmo High School Ms. Mottsey’s piece, Existence, will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol with art from all participating districts around the country, and she will have the opportunity to visit Washington, D.C. for a reception later this summer. “I’m grateful to have the opportunity to showcase so many talented young artists from the Second District. Each student who participated demonstrated clear talent, and I was very impressed by their work,” Wilson said. All of the art submitted this year can be viewed on Congressman Wilson’s Facebook page. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students. Students who are interested in submitting art for the 2016 Annual Congressional Art Competition should visit Wilson’s website next January.
05.15.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. This piece of legislation is the avenue for funding our military and vital national security initiatives. “This year’s NDAA supports our brave servicemembers and provides the necessary resources for a strong national defense to help ensure the safety of American families. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am grateful this bill bolsters our military, advances our cyber capabilities, protects our technological superiority, and combats the growing terrorist threats America faces. “While safeguarding our defense priorities, this bill ensures taxpayer money is not squandered by implementing acquisitions reform to hold the Administration accountable. It also benefits South Carolina by allowing the Savannah River Site (SRS) to continue its ongoing national security and environmental cleanup missions, while ensuring no adverse workforce impacts. The bill supports the construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at SRS to promote conversion of weapons grade plutonium into green fuel and honor our nation’s nonproliferation commitment. “The number one priority of Congress should be to protect Americans by providing for our troops at home and abroad. This year’s NDAA does exactly that, and I look forward to working with the Senate to pass this critical legislation.”
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act: “President Obama’s nuclear agreement with Iran poses a significant threat to the United States. The President is capitulating by lifting current economic sanctions, which opens the door for Iran to develop nuclear weapons and puts our closest allies, such as Israel, at risk. His closed-door negotiations have been kept secret from our citizens. America deserves a voice in the Iran agreement, and allowing Congress to review the Framework Agreement is essential to reversing the President’s executive overreach. “The philosophy of the Iranian regime has not changed since Iran’s leaders murdered 241 U.S. Marines in Beirut in 1983, and I am thoroughly concerned that President Obama has tossed aside the safety of America to reach a tenuous agreement with Iran. The American people know the Iranian government – which subjugates the people of Iran – cannot be trusted to hold up their end of the bargain. I am grateful the House of Representatives passed this important legislation to ensure the American people are heard,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. In a national poll conducted last month, nearly 70 percent of Americans were not confident that Iran would uphold its end of the Framework Agreement. Additionally, in April, 72 percent of Americans supported Congress having a say on whether or not the U.S. should support the deal.
05.13.2015	ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp presenting the 2014 ACU Conservative award. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was honored to receive the “ACU Conservative” award from the American Conservative Union on May 12, 2015. This award recognizes Members of Congress who have consistently upheld conservative principles such as limited government, free markets, a strong national defense, and traditional American values. Wilson holds a lifetime rating of 93.7 percent from the ACU. "I am grateful to receive this honor from the American Conservative Union, the oldest and largest conservative grassroots organization in the country. I remain committed to fighting for limited government and to expanding freedom, and will continue promoting the conservative priorities of the people I am honored to represent in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District." Congressman Wilson was awarded an 88 percent rating for 2014. To view the full rankings and criteria, please click here.
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement regarding Volvo Car Corporation selecting Berkeley County for their first manufacturing facility in North America: “I’m grateful to welcome Volvo Car Corporation to South Carolina, where our state is the leading exporter of automobiles and tires in the United States. I thank Governor Nikki Haley and the countless county, regional, and state officials who worked tirelessly to make this investment possible. This successful team is in the tradition of the late Governor Carroll Campbell, who recruited the first automaker to the state resulting in thousands of new jobs. South Carolina is a great place to live and work, and our pro-business policies make us a clear choice for economic development.” Volvo Car Corporation will begin construction on a $500 million factory to manufacture the latest-generation Volvo models for sale and export this fall. The project is expected to create 4,000 new jobs in South Carolina, and is projected to contribute $4.8 billion annually in total economic output. Those interested in joining Volvo Car Corporation should visit www.readysc.org/volvo.
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2028, the FY16 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. This legislation is important to South Carolina, as it will provide resources for the Savannah River Site (SRS) in Aiken and Barnwell counties. “This year’s Energy and Water Appropriations bill strengthens our energy security and takes crucial steps toward American energy independence. While directly benefitting South Carolina, this bill helps our nation invest in an all-of-the-above energy plan and maintain a strong national defense while making necessary cuts to achieve fiscal responsibility. “As amendments to the bill were debated, I was grateful I was able to defend and protect necessary resources at SRS to enable the continuation of its essential missions. I was also pleased the bill supports construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at SRS to promote conversion of weapons grade plutonium into green fuel and honor our international nonproliferation agreements. “For far too long, Washington’s budget battles have spilled into the homes of dedicated Site workers because the Administration has prioritized unnecessary spending over our national security needs. Today’s bill helps provide the consistency that the people of Aiken and Barnwell counties deserve. Additionally, I was pleased that funding was included for the Charleston Harbor deepening, which is essential to the Palmetto State. “With the House Armed Services Committee’s passage of the NDAA and the House passage of this year’s Energy and Water Appropriations bill this week, I was grateful to support both authorizing and appropriating funds to provide for a strong national defense and uphold the important environmental cleanup missions at SRS.”
04.30.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee completed the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. This piece of legislation is the avenue for funding our military and vital national security projects. “While our nation faces a complex and threatening environment at home and abroad, this year’s NDAA provides necessary resources to help our military keep America safe. Providing for a strong national defense to protect American families should be Congress’s number one priority, and I am grateful the bipartisan bill promotes this goal while supporting our brave servicemembers. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I am especially pleased this bill addresses the growing threats posed by cyber attacks and our enemies’ use of advanced technologies. This bill also preserves our means to train and equip our special operations and cyber forces to defend America now and in the future. “While the President’s defense sequestration has put some of our most precious resources at risk, this bill works to safeguard our defense priorities. I am grateful this year’s NDAA includes a bipartisan amendment I proposed that guarantees time to adequately review the National Commission of the Future of the Army’s report regarding the transfer of Apache helicopters from the National Guard. “Finally, I am thankful this legislation directly benefits South Carolina. The resources the bill authorizes for the Savannah River Site (SRS) will allow for the continuation of the ongoing national security and environmental cleanup missions, while ensuring no adverse workforce impacts. Additionally, I am happy I was able to uphold vital funding and language supporting construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at SRS to promote conversion of weapons grade plutonium into green fuel and honor our nonproliferation commitment. “I look forward to voting in support of this crucial legislation on the House floor, and I will continue working to advance legislation that will bolster our national security and ensure the safety of American families.”
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, along with Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), today issued the following statement in response to the Department of Energy’s (DOE) release of The Aerospace Corporation’s recent study on the cost to construct and operate the Mixed Fuel Fabrication (MOX) Facility in South Carolina: “We have grave concerns with The Aerospace Corporation’s recent assessment of the cost to construct and operate the MOX Facility. Having already spent $4.4 billion on the Project to achieve roughly sixty-five percent completion, we find it difficult to understand how completing and operating the Project will cost another $47.5 billion. “A week before the House Armed Services and Appropriations Committees consider appropriations for this facility – we are concerned with the Obama Administration’s intentions to fulfill our international obligations. MOX will serve as our country’s means by which to honor a nuclear nonproliferation agreement with the Russian Federation. At a time when tensions are high between our two nations, we cannot afford walk away from our side of the Agreement. “In the very near future, we look forward to an in-depth briefing by the Aerospace Corporation as to how they came to their findings. Additionally, it is imperative the contractor (CB&I), DOE, and The Aerospace Corporation sit down and come to agreement on a final cost for the Project. This is essential to ensuring the Project is finished and that taxpayer money is not squandered in the process. We look forward to working with all parties to ensure MOX construction moves forward so the United States can honor its international nonproliferation obligations while simultaneously providing a path to move weapons material out of the Palmetto state.”
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, released the following statement after today’s Subcommittee Markup of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 National Defense Authorization Act: “Now, more than ever, the defense of our nation is at a tipping point. Our military is the smallest it has been since the 1940s, yet the threats to America are greater than ever before. We must remain vigilant in a world filled with terrorist organizations and new types of threats, like cyberattacks and unconventional warfare. “The Emerging Threats and Capabilities proposal provides the necessary resources to strengthen our military, advance our cyber capabilities, protect our technological superiority, and combat terrorism. Through our efforts on the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I will work to ensure the security of our nation now and protect American families from new threats in the future.” For my opening statement in today’s Subcommittee Markup, please click here.
04.20.2015	(W. Columbia, S.C.) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement about Orchids Paper Products Company’s investment in Barnwell County: "I’m grateful to welcome Orchids Paper Products Company to South Carolina’s Second Congressional District and look forward to seeing the positive impact the company will have in Barnwell - especially the over 130 jobs Orchids is expected to create. I commend the county, regional, and state officials involved for their success in facilitating this important investment of $110 million and for helping to make South Carolina a great place to live and work. "I am honored to represent the Second District, where our communities, residents, and pro-business policies place us at the forefront of economic development in South Carolina." Orchids Paper Products Company, which specializes in the manufacturing of high-quality, private label consumer tissue products, is establishing operations in Barnwell County. The company is investing at least $110 million, with the potential for additional investment, and the project is expected to create 134 new jobs in Barnwell, S.C. Those interested in joining the Orchids Paper Products Company team should contact South Carolina Works.
04.17.2015	(W. Columbia, S.C.) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after visiting Pelion Middle School this morning to speak with students participating in the SIFMA Foundation Capitol Hill Challenge, a 14-week challenge that involves teams of middle and high school students competing in a curriculum-based Stock Market Game to teach the importance of saving and investing. The national top ten teams will be recognized at an awards reception in Washington, D.C. in June. "It was wonderful to meet these bright students at Pelion Middle School who are participating in the SIFMA Foundation Capitol Hill Challenge. This academic challenge and Stock Market Game helps students put their math, economics, and personal finance skills to the test to further develop their understanding of global job creation. "It was an honor to speak with the students about the importance of encouraging interest in finance to help develop our future leaders, and I am grateful to the SIFMA Foundation and SC Economics for bringing this program to our state." According to the SIFMA Foundation: SIFMA Foundation’s Stock Market Game is a curriculum-based program where student teams learn about the global marketplace and long-term saving and investing fundamentals by using a hypothetical brokerage account. The program serves 15,000 teachers and 600,000 students throughout the nation annually. This program is offered across South Carolina by SC Economics to help students develop a better understanding of the global economy, strengthen their personal financial skills, and improve their knowledge of math, economics, and business. For more on the Stock Market Game please visit: https://www.stockmarketgame.org.
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON- Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, made the following comments about today's hearing on "Cyber Operations: Improving the Military Cyber Security Posture in an Uncertain Threat Environment." "What we heard today from top Pentagon officials is that our country’s cyber challenges are deepening and there are serious concerns that our policies and capabilities are not keeping pace. It is incumbent on this subcommittee and the entire House Armed Services Committee to take steps to help bridge this gap. I am also concerned that budget uncertainty is increasing our vulnerability in cyberspace. "A constrained and unstable defense budget presents us with a whole host of tough decisions. Today’s testimony makes it clear that one area where we must focus resources is cyber. Getting the right personnel in place, the right programs, and the right policies is not only essential to deterring attacks; it is critical to our overall national defense now and in the future."
03.03.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement after voting no on the Senate Amendment to H.R. 240, a bill the House passed to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the end of Fiscal Year 2015 that fails to address the President’s unconstitutional executive actions on immigration: “Despite President Obama’s own words that he cannot act on immigration without Congress, his unconstitutional decision to pardon illegal aliens for breaking our laws is a deliberate overreach of presidential authority. His recent, sweeping executive actions on immigration destroy jobs for American citizens, insult the millions of immigrants following our rules and working through the system to achieve legal status, and ignore the will of the American people. “In January, the House passed a bipartisan bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security, which is responsible for implementing immigration policy, and stop the President’s illegal executive amnesty. Sadly, Senate Democrats have successfully blocked any effort to vote on this funding bill, and now, they are putting DHS at risk of shutting down. I am concerned about the possible shutdown of DHS, but I am thoroughly worried about the long-term consequences of implementing an unlawful immigration policy that cannot be reversed and destroys jobs. “I will not support funding the President’s unconstitutional executive actions on immigration that destroy American jobs. I voted no on today’s bill because it fails to stop the President’s executive amnesty. As we continue efforts to protect our nation’s citizens and help more Americans get back to work, I hope the President will focus on enforcing our current laws rather than circumventing Congress to promote the interests of illegal aliens over the well being of American families,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. On March 28, 2011, President Obama said, “The notion that I can just suspend deportations through executive order, that’s just not the case, because there are laws on the books that Congress has passed.” In a national poll conducted in January of this year, 58% of Americans oppose President Obama’s recent executive order on immigration, and 53% want it defunded.
03.03.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement after His Excellency Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel, addressed a Joint Meeting of Congress: "It was an honor to have Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Washington today to address Congress on behalf of our nation’s strong ally, Israel. It was the Administration alone that made his speech a partisan issue, and I am grateful for the opportunity to listen to the Prime Minister’s concerns regarding the ongoing nuclear negotiation talks with Iran. “I share the Prime Minister’s concerns that Iranian nuclear negotiations could pose a significant threat to both Israel and the United States. These talks open the door to allowing the Iranians to enrich uranium beyond commercial grade. A nuclear Iran risks our national security and the security of our allies in the Middle East region and the world. “Israel is one of our nation’s closest allies, and I hope the Administration will heed Prime Minister Netanyahu’s words. Our nation must carefully consider the potential consequences of a deal with Iran, such as threatening world peace and undermining non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which can be acquired by terrorists,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
02.25.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified today before the House Budget Committee, led by Chairman Tom Price, requesting resources for the Army’s training base at Fort Jackson in Columbia as the President’s defense sequestration poses a significant threat to the community and economy in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District with the downsizing of Army personnel. Click below to view the video of Congressman Wilson speaking in the hearing: Click here for video. Excerpts from Congressman Wilson’s testimony are included below: “I represent the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, which includes the Army’s training base at Fort Jackson in Columbia, where we welcome recruits from Virginia and from Michigan. I also represent the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell. Both of these installations are national assets, which provide unique, one-of-a-kind services to our country. “Fort Jackson is the largest and most active Initial Entry Training Center in the U.S. Army, training thirty-four percent of all Soldiers and sixty-nine percent of women entering the Army each year. That means training in excess of forty-five thousand basic recruits and advanced individual training soldiers every year. Fort Jackson is now beginning to feel the effects of defense sequestration. The base recently lost the Recruiting and Retention School when it was moved to Fort Knox, Kentucky, because significant Army downsizing created excess infrastructure at Fort Knox. The loss of the Recruiting and Retention School separates recruiting from its complementary mission of training. “The active duty Army, Army National Guard, and Army Reserve are all expected to downsize significantly due to defense sequestration. The Army has to reduce personnel in order to alleviate the fiscal burden. Training installations, like Fort Jackson, are going to suffer significantly during this downsizing as the base sees fewer recruits entering the service and going through Initial Entry Training at a time when threats are spreading to American families. Also, the permanent party assigned to Fort Jackson, which includes uniformed personnel as well as civilians, will be reduced as the number of recruits is reduced. The current projection, based upon the Army’s Programmatic Environmental Assessment, is that Fort Jackson’s permanent party footprint could be reduced by 3,100 personnel. This represents a significant impact to Fort Jackson as it promotes its missions of training.” “Your Committee has extremely difficult choices to make. As you begin the Fiscal Year 2016 budgetary process, I ask that you fully consider the critical national security missions being carried out at Fort Jackson as well as the Savannah River Site. The individuals at both installations are dedicated to serving their country and putting the national interest of the United States before themselves. Please continue the tools they need to get the job done and to keep us safe here at home,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
02.25.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified today before the House Budget Committee, led by Chairman Tom Price, requesting resources for critical infrastructure issues at the Savannah River Site (SRS) in order to diminish South Carolina’s top environmental risk and reduce the cost burden to taxpayers. Click below to view the video of Congressman Wilson speaking in the hearing: Click here for video. Excerpts from Congressman Wilson’s testimony are included below: “I represent the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, which includes the Army’s training base at Fort Jackson in Columbia, where we welcome recruits from Virginia and from Michigan. I also represent the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell. Both of these installations are national assets, which provide unique, one-of-a-kind services to our country. “About an hour southwest of Columbia lies the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site. This site is a national asset, which disposes of weapons grade nuclear materials, conducts cutting edge research, and supports our country’s nuclear weapons missions. “The President’s budget proposal provided much needed funding for the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) currently under construction at SRS. This facility is our country’s only means to honor the U.S.-Russia Plutonium Disposition Agreement. Without this facility, we will default on our nonproliferation agreement with Russia to dispose of 34 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium and the material that could be reprocessed into green fuel for reactors. “In addition to MOX, Savannah River Site is home to a host of other Department of Energy environmental cleanup projects. H-Canyon provides our country with the ability to process highly radioactive material while the Tank Farm, Defense Waste Processing Facility, and the Salt Waste Processing Facility all play vital roles in safely disposing of the material. “Finally, the Site is home to the Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL). SRNL plays a vital role in supporting several initiatives, which range from Site activities to our intelligence community. Additionally, all of the FBI’s forensic agents are trained at SRNL. “Your Committee has extremely difficult choices to make. As you begin the Fiscal Year 2016 budgetary process, I ask that you fully consider the critical national security missions being carried out at Fort Jackson as well as the Savannah River Site. The individuals at both installations are dedicated to serving their country and putting the national interest of the United States before themselves. Please continue the tools they need to get the job done and to keep us safe here at home,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
02.24.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement on President Obama’s veto of S.1, bipartisan legislation approving the Keystone XL Pipeline: “With his veto of the Keystone jobs bill, the President has chosen to support partisan politics and the whims of liberal extremist fundraisers over American jobs. Despite the fact that a majority of Americans support building the Keystone XL Pipeline to create jobs and strengthen our nation’s energy security, President Obama has blocked this critical infrastructure project that has been delayed for over six years. The veto clearly destroys jobs and promotes politics. “I am disappointed that the President refused to support the priorities of the American people today with his veto. The most environmentally secure means to transport oil is by pipeline, and the Keystone XL Pipeline has overwhelmingly bipartisan support. I will keep fighting to get this project approved to grow our economy, promote energy independence, and create permanent jobs in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District and across America.” Since 2010, the House has passed 11 bills to start construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline project. On February 11, 2015, the House passed S.1, the Keystone XL Approval Act, sending the bill to the President’s desk. In the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, nearly 500 employees of Michelin Tire Corporation in Lexington make the tires that are shipped to Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada to be used for oil sand recovery. MTU America in Graniteville produces the engines used for oil sand recovery, representing over 300 jobs in Aiken County. The application to build the Keystone XL Pipeline was first submitted on September 19, 2008 – 2,349 days ago. According to the State Department's Environmental Impact Statement, the Keystone XL Pipeline would support approximately 42,100 jobs (direct, indirect, and induced), and approximately $2 billion in earnings throughout the nation. According to the Department of Energy, the Keystone XL Pipeline would be able to move up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day. This represents about half the amount the U.S. imports from the Middle East. A recent CBS poll found 6 in 10 Americans support construction of the project.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON- Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, made the following comments in response to the Administration's proposal to create a cyber integration center: "Everyone agrees cybersecurity is an enormous challenge. If we are going to successfully address it, Congress and the Administration must work together. That is why we were surprised to learn from media reports about the proposed cyber integration center, which was announced yesterday. 'Cybersecurity is a priority for the subcommittee, and we have done a tremendous amount of work on the issue, including improving congressional oversight of cyber operations while ensuring agility in a rapidly changing arena. In fact, the subcommittee is set to receive its quarterly cyber operations update this Thursday. This gives us a great opportunity to delve into the details of this cyber integration center proposal to see if it makes sense and could make a real difference for our security."
02.09.2015	WASHINGTON- Reps. Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Jim Langevin (D-RI), respectively Chairman and Ranking Member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities, hosted a closed roundtable for committee members on Thursday, February 5, entitled Understanding Today’s Challenges and Tomorrow’s Threats to U.S. National Security. Briefers included: Dr. Andrew Krepinevich President Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (CSBA) Ms. Rosa Brooks Professor of Law Georgetown University Dr. Peter Singer Strategist and Senior Fellow New America Foundation Mr. Dakota Wood Senior Research Fellow, Defense Programs The Heritage Foundation Following the roundtable, Chairman Wilson said: “For this subcommittee’s first event in the 114th Congress, Mr. Langevin and I thought it would be useful for us to take time to set the security stage as we begin reviewing the President’s Budget request and crafting the National Defense Authorization Act. “To do that, we heard from a distinguished group of thinkers who shared their thoughts on the current security situation, and the ways in which we should be evaluating the current budget request. "The roundtable provided members of the subcommittee a chance to examine the importance of an integrated national security strategy and the key role resiliency and adaptability must play in defense planning. We also discussed deterrence through conventional tools, as well as how cyber deterrence might work. Finally, we talked about how the U.S. must better understand our adversary’s strategic planning so we can adapt to any unconventional threats those plans present.”
02.02.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in response to the release of President Obama’s fiscal year (FY) 2016 budget proposal: “The President’s budget proposal is a continuation of his failed policies of the past – out-of-control government spending, borrowing, and tax increases that destroy jobs. President Obama’s plan expands big government programs, includes $2.1 trillion in tax increases, and in the first year alone, increases discretionary spending by $74 billion. With our national debt reaching over $18 trillion, it is irresponsible of the President to propose a budget plan that never balances and adds $8.5 trillion to that debt. “I am committed to combining sound policy with practical solutions to spur economic growth, create American jobs, restore national defense funding, and ensure our nation’s massive debt is not passed on to future generations. We will continue working in the House to cut wasteful government spending, reduce our debt, simplify and flatten the tax code for hardworking taxpayers and families, and provide the necessary tools to jump-start American job creation.”
01.26.2015	(Columbia, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and South Carolina Superintendent of Education, Molly Spearman, today held a joint press conference at the State House to discuss efforts to restore local control over education. Wilson issued the following statement regarding his bill, the Local Control of Education Act, which he will introduce today in the House of Representatives. This bill prohibits the federal government from mandating that states adopt a specific curriculum or set of academic standards, such as the Common Core State Standards: “The quality of our children’s education is too high a priority to rely on a one-size-fits-all approach,” Wilson said. “What works in New York or California may not work here in South Carolina, and the federal government’s overreach into our state’s school system is unprecedented. “Over the past several years, the Obama Administration has used a combination of education grants and waivers to coerce states into adopting Common Core State Standards, which has increased federal control over our schools’ instructional content, academic standards, and assessments. Currently, states that have adopted these standards face losing their waivers should they choose to repeal Common Core – meaning states and the taxpayer dollars they depend on are held at the mercy of bureaucrats in Washington. “My bill would return control over education to the states by prohibiting the federal government from using grants or waivers to mandate, incentivize, or coerce states into adopting Common Core. For states that have already adopted Common Core, it would ensure that any previous requirements for waivers would be void, and the U.S. Secretary of Education would be prohibited from requiring states to agree to any new conditions in order to keep their existing waiver. “South Carolina elected school board members and administrators, working together with teachers and parents, are best suited to manage our state’s education system. I have full faith and confidence in my good friend, Molly Spearman, who is leading the effort in our state to create college and career ready standards that work best for our South Carolina students. I stand behind her in this process, and I will do everything I can in Congress to support her efforts to improve education for our children.” South Carolina Superintendent of Education Molly Spearman said: “I am proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with my former General Assembly colleague Joe Wilson, along with friends from the South Carolina House and Senate (TBD). We all firmly support local and state control over public education and reject efforts by the federal government to dictate how we run our schools. Like Congressman Wilson, I have great faith in the teachers and administrators across our state who care for our students every day. I trust the judgment of our locally-elected school board members, who work with parents and community leaders to create safe, successful, high-achieving schools throughout South Carolina. “Now is the time for us to come together with a united message: in order to innovate, lead, and teach our students, we need less from Washington, not more.” Wilson’s bill, the Local Control of Education Act, currently has 36 original cosponsors, including: Reps. Walter Jones (NC-03), Mo Brooks (AL-05), Reid Ribble (WI-08), Steven Palazzo (MS-04), Mick Mulvaney (SC-05), Ron DeSantis (FL-06), Steve King (IA-04), Alan Nunnelee (MS-01), Kenny Marchant (TX-24), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Curt Clawson (FL-19), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Tim Walberg (MI-07), David Rouzer (NC-07), Bob Gibbs (OH-07), Tom Rice (SC-07), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Brian Babin (TX-36), Tom Rooney (FL-17), Stephen Fincher (TN-08), Steve Pearce (NM-02), Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Michael Burgess (TX-26), Paul Cook (CA-08), Ryan Zinke (MT), Mia Love (UT-04), Trey Gowdy (SC-04), Bill Flores (TX-17), Glenn Grothman (WI-06), Matt Salmon (AZ-05), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Mike Kelly (PA-03), Frank Guinta (NH-01), Lee Zeldin (NY-01), Mike Pompeo (KS-04), and Richard Hudson (NC-08). Senator David Vitter (R-LA) has introduced companion legislation (S.73) in the U.S. Senate.
01.20.2015	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this evening after President Obama concluded his State of the Union address: “With a national debt reaching over $18 trillion and an economy defined by stagnant wages and weak economic growth, many Americans hoped that in his speech tonight, President Obama would reassure us he would work with Congress to grow our economy, create jobs, and get our nation on a path to prosperity. Sadly, we heard more rhetoric highlighting the President’s continued refusal to work with Congress and instead, promote his own agenda – an agenda that includes policies a majority of Americans oppose that raise taxes and destroy jobs. “Tonight, the President made it clear that he supports tax increases that destroy jobs and discourage America’s small businesses from hiring. The Administration’s policies have failed to raise wages – in fact, during his Administration, per capita income is down nearly $3,000 per family. His policies also have caused a shift towards many Americans settling for part-time jobs or giving up the job search entirely. In December 2014, the labor force participation rate fell to its lowest point in over 30 years. This is not an economic recovery to be celebrating, and the American people deserve better. “House Republicans have passed bipartisan, pro-growth bills to create American jobs. We’ve passed bills to utilize our nation’s abundant energy resources to grow our economy and lower energy costs, scale back excessive and burdensome regulations to enable small businesses to hire workers, and cut wasteful federal spending to ensure our massive debt is not passed on to our children and grandchildren. Yet, the President ignores our proposals or threatens to veto them. “This Congress, we will continue working to serve the priorities of Americans. We are also focused on the nation’s response to terrorist threats, especially in light of recent attacks in France and cyber attacks on our homeland. Cyber security threats endanger both our national security and our economic wellbeing as these threats can undermine our nation’s businesses that drive our economy. “As the Chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, I am committed to promoting efforts to combat cyber security threats and keep American families safe. I look forward to seeing how the Administration’s cyber security policies can improve our nation’s defense against these threats, but will remain focused on ensuring the best policies for safety are enacted. “It is my hope that President Obama will decide to work with Congress on all fronts to empower the lives of Americans. It is bold to say that the State of the Union is strong when 8.7 million Americans are out of work. Now is the time for a productive approach that will really bolster middle-class Americans, help them keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and grow high-paying American jobs from the ground-up.”
01.14.2015	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015, to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for the remainder of the current fiscal year: “President Obama’s unconstitutional decision to pardon illegal aliens for breaking our laws is a deliberate overreach of presidential authority that destroys jobs for American citizens, insults the millions of immigrants following our rules and working through the system to achieve legal status, and ignores the will of the American people. We voted today to defund the President’s unlawful executive order and ensure our current laws are strongly enforced. “Today’s bipartisan bill works to improve our immigration and customs enforcement, strengthen our border security, and increase transparency in DHS programs to modernize our legal immigration system and protect American jobs. It helps protect our nation against terrorism, maintain highly-equipped and well-trained personnel, and ensure our nation’s readiness to respond to potential threats – all in a manner that serves the best use of taxpayer dollars, while stopping the President’s actions that destroy jobs for American citizens. “We will continue efforts to ensure the safety of our citizens, while helping more Americans get back to work. Moving forward, I hope the President will focus on implementing current law rather than circumventing Congress to promote the interests of illegal aliens over the well being of American families.” H.R. 240, which passed the House by a vote of 236–191, provides $39.7 billion in discretionary funding for DHS, an increase of $400 million compared to the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. According to the Committee, “[T]he bill prioritizes frontline security – including all operational, counterterrorism, and threat-targeting activities, and essential tactical equipment – and saves taxpayer dollars by reducing overhead costs and cutting funds for lower priority programs.” Listed below are the Amendments that passed today in conjunction with H.R. 240: Representative Aderholt (R-LA), Amendment #1 – amendment specifically prevents any funds from any source from being used to carry out: (1) the executive actions announced on November 20, 2014 to grant deferred action to certain unlawful aliens and for other purposes and (2) four of Morton Memos on prosecutorial discretion and immigration enforcement priorities issued in 2011 and 2012 that effectively prevent certain classes of unlawful aliens from being removed from the country. The amendment declares that no funds may be used to carry out any substantially similar policies to those defunded. The amendment declares that the policies defunded and any substantially similar policies have no statutory or constitutional basis and therefore no legal effect. Finally, the amendment provides that no funds may be used to grant any federal benefit to any alien as a result of the policies defunded. Representative Blackburn (R-TN), Amendment #2 – amendment provides that no funds may be used to consider new, renewal, or previously denied deferred action on childhood arrivals (DACA) applications. Representative DeSantis (R-FL), Amendment #3 – amendment requires that DHS treat any alien convicted of any offense involving domestic violence, sexual abuse, child molestation, or child abuse or exploitation as within the categories of aliens subject to DHS’s highest civil immigration enforcement. Representative Salmon (R-AZ), Amendment #4 – amendment expresses the Sense of Congress that the Executive Branch should not pursue policies that disadvantage the hiring of U.S. citizens and those lawfully present in the United States by making it economically advantageous to hire workers who came to the country illegally. Representative Schock (R-IL), Amendment #5 – amendment expresses the Sense of Congress that the Administration should stop putting the interest of immigrants who worked within the legal framework to come to the United States behind those who came here illegally.
01.09.2015	(West Columbia, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline: “A majority of Americans support building the Keystone XL Pipeline to create jobs and strengthen our nation’s energy security, yet President Obama continues to block this critical infrastructure project that has been delayed for over six years. The most environmentally secure means to transport oil is by pipeline, and this project has overwhelming bipartisan support. “The Keystone XL Pipeline means hundreds of real jobs right here in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, where companies like Michelin Tire Corporation in Lexington and MTU America in Graniteville produce the earthmover tires and engines used for Canadian oil sand development. Also, the Colonial Pipeline in North Augusta reduces gas prices for consumers locally. “It is my hope that the President will support the priorities of the American people, rather than his own agenda, and approve the Keystone XL Pipeline to create permanent jobs, grow our economy, and promote energy independence.” H.R. 3, which passed the House by a vote of 266-153, authorizes the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance of the Keystone XL Pipeline. H.R. 3 is the tenth time the House has voted to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. In the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, nearly 500 employees of Michelin Tire Corporation in Lexington make the tires that are shipped to Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada to be used for oil sand recovery. MTU America in Graniteville produces the engines used for oil sand recovery, representing over 300 jobs in Aiken County. According to the State Department's Environmental Impact Statement, the Keystone XL Pipeline would support approximately 42,100 jobs (direct, indirect, and induced), and approximately $2 billion in earnings throughout the nation. According to the Department of Energy, the Keystone XL Pipeline would be able to move up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day. This represents about half the amount the U.S. imports from the Middle East.
01.06.2015	(West Columbia, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act of 2015, to permit employers to exclude employees who already have health coverage through a Department of Defense program when determining whether they must provide health care coverage to their employees under Obamacare: “The President’s overhaul of our nation’s health care system burdens the main driver of our economy – small businesses – as well as the many veterans seeking job opportunities. Obamacare’s employer mandate raises costs for small businesses and hurts their ability to hire employees, while veterans already face a tough job market. “In an effort to help both veterans and small businesses, today’s common sense, bipartisan bill exempts veterans already receiving health care through the VA or TRICARE from being counted toward the number of employees that must receive employer-sponsored health coverage. This policy change incentivizes businesses to hire more veterans and provides much needed relief to employers to encourage economic growth. “Our nation’s heroes deserve every opportunity to successfully transition to the civilian workforce, and I know our veterans’ extensive skills and training can help grow our economy. Their potential for employment should not be restricted by the failures of Obamacare, and I am grateful that one of my first votes in the 114th Congress supports veterans while taking a critical first step to rein in the out-of-control Obamacare law.” Obamacare’s employer mandate requires all businesses with more than 50 full-time employees to provide employer-sponsored insurance. Businesses not in compliance face a $2,000 noncompliance penalty for each employee beyond the 30th they hire after 50 in addition to the salary and benefits they must provide to their employees. However, under current law, veterans who already receive health insurance through the VA or TRICARE would still be counted toward the employer mandate. H.R. 22, which passed the House by a vote of 412–0, exempts these veterans from being included in this count toward the employer mandate.
01.02.2015	(West Columbia, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after unveiling his 2015 Legislative Agenda at several press conferences across South Carolina’s Second Congressional District in West Columbia, Aiken, and Barnwell. “With new majorities in both the House and Senate, the next Congress provides the opportunity to put America back on the right track to job creation. For far too long, South Carolina families have suffered as the Obama Administration and liberal Democrats in the Senate prioritized failing big government policies over the wellbeing of the American people. “Repealing and replacing Obamacare and building the Keystone XL Pipeline are two initiatives that will create immediate jobs. Supporting our military, their families, and veterans will protect our national security and keep the American people safe. Reducing Washington’s out of control spending will promote economic stability and provide a better future for our children and grandchildren. Additionally, I am committed to fighting for the vital national security and environmental cleanup missions underway at the Savannah River Site. “I am excited about the progress that will be made in the coming months and look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to promote limited government and expanded freedom.” The four main priorities of focus for the First Session of the 114th Congress will be: Job Creation Through Economic Growth: Cut excessive regulations to help small businesses grow; Work with local chambers, county, regional, and state agencies to bring jobs to South Carolina; Protect South Carolina’s “Right to Work” laws; Repeal and Replace the government healthcare takeover bill which destroys jobs Reduce Washington’s Out of Control Spending: Make government more accountable by sponsoring legislation calling for biennial appropriations; Cut taxes to allow families to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks; Support a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution; Support Conservative budgets Energy Independence and Efficiency: Promote construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline; Continue to advocate for current and future missions at the Savannah River Site; Fight to ensure SRS continues environmental cleanup missions; Promote clean energy across South Carolina via Energy Savings Performance Contracts Promote Our Military and Veterans: Maintain our military’s responsiveness and capabilities to promote peace through strength; Protect TRICARE benefits and sustain the quality of life for military families; Support Guard and Reserve units in their transition to the workforce; Ensure our Veterans receive quality health care
12.12.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed a funding bill to keep the government open through the remainder of the fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2016. “The passage of today’s bill is a tremendous victory for Republicans as it reins in Washington’s out of control spending. I have made it very clear that the President’s unlawful and big government policies must be stopped. Today’s legislation offers no new funding for Obamacare and does not allocate resources for the Administration to offer amnesty to millions of illegal aliens. Instead, it dramatically reduces the IRS’ budget, provides for our national security, and promotes energy independence. “South Carolina specifically benefits from the passage of this bill. Keeping the government’s doors open prevents furloughs of dedicated staff and provides stability for the vital national security missions at the Savannah River Site. It also supports the thousands of military families at Fort Jackson and surrounding bases in the Palmetto State. “In a few weeks, the House and Senate will have a tremendous opportunity to restore our economy and reverse the Administration’s restrictions upon our freedoms. It all starts with making tough choices and I am confident that as we move forward both Chambers will work together for limited government and expanded freedom. ”
12.04.2014	(Washington, DC) – Chairman Joe Wilson of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement upon the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015. “The passage of today’s bill is additional proof that the House and Senate can work together to achieve positive change in Washington. Although it’s not perfect, we succeeded in allocating necessary resources to our brave men and women in uniform, military families and veterans so that our national security remains intact. As threats to America increase and instability grows around the globe, providing for our military should be made a top priority to deter violence and promote peace through strength.” Highlights of the bill: ·Awards the Purple Heart to members of the Armed Forces, like those at Fort Hood, who were wounded or killed in domestic terrorist attacks on our home soil ·Mandates new criminal sexual assault reforms to prevent future crimes from occurring and offer support to victims in need; Additional behavioral and psychological health programs will be made available to address and prevent military suicides ·House and Senate leaders worked together to protect our military families and veteran’s TRICARE and Basic Housing Allowance benefits they have earned and deserve by selflessly serving our country ·Prohibits the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States and prevents construction of terrorist detention facilities at home ·Supports operations to promote peace in the Middle East by supporting our allies in the region ·Allocates adequate resources for the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX), a vital national security project located at the Savannah River Site, to ensure it remains on track to completion ·Maintains National Guard readiness and capabilities remain intact by preventing the transfer of National Guard helicopters in FY15 – Congressman Wilson worked on a bipartisan amendment when the NDAA was in Committee to insert this language into the bill. Our release for this amendment can be found here. *Congressman Wilson also gave a floor speech today in support of the bill. Video can be found here.
11.24.2014	(Washington, DC) - Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement regarding the announcement that Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel is stepping down. "The Obama Administration’s failure to promote a strong national defense becomes more evident everyday. With Secretary Hagel’s departure from the Department of Defense, it is clear that even those who are perceived as compliant with this Administration fall short of the President’s expectations. I commend Secretary Hagel’s service to our country and hope that his replacement will work with the House and Senate to restore our military's strength and capability to protect our national security."
11.24.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s immigration executive order that will grant amnesty to nearly five million illegal aliens already in the United States. “President Obama’s unilateral decision to pardon illegal aliens for breaking our laws reaches a level of unprecedented irresponsibility,” Congressman Wilson stated. “This action is a deliberate overreach of presidential authority and ignores the will of the American people. I fully support House Speaker John Boehner’s pledge to ‘fight tooth and nail’ to stop this executive order. Additionally, over sixty colleagues and I have asked House Appropriators to block every possible penny that could be spent for implementation.” “Our weak economy cannot afford another blow inflicted by big-government policies. Granting amnesty is never the right answer, especially when it rewards the unlawful and destroys jobs for Americans. Job creation claims to be a top priority for the President, but his actions support the contrary. In 2006, the President acknowledged that an influx in illegal immigration threatened wages of the working-class and risked exploitation of safety nets in place for those in need. Eight years later, it is clear he abandoned this belief. “Our immigration system is broken because the President has failed to enforce the laws already on the books. Moving forward, the President should focus on implementing current law rather than circumventing Congress to promote the interests of illegal aliens over the well-being of American families.”
11.14.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed a bill to approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. “The American people made it clear last week that they want to stop President Obama’s policies. Moving forward with the Keystone XL Pipeline should not be a difficult task, but the Administration has put the politics of mega-donors over the wishes of the American people. Breaking ground on this job-creating project is a step in the right direction and shows that Republicans and Democrats in both Chambers can work together for positive change in Washington. I am hopeful that the Senate will pass identical legislation and send it to the President’s desk for his signature. If the President continues to stall on the Keystone XL Pipeline, it supports the belief that he values his own agenda over creating permanent jobs and promoting energy independence.” *Jobs in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District would be created if the Keystone XL Pipeline were built. MTU Diesel in Graniteville and Michelin Tire Corporation in Lexington are among a lengthy list of companies that have resources needed for construction.
11.13.2014	(Washington, DC) – Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after questioning Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel about the Administration’s strategy and military campaign against the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in the Middle East. “The complete and systematic defeat of ISIL is imperative for the United States’ national security and the safety of our allies around the world,” Chairman Wilson stated. “Achieving this outcome is growing increasingly difficult due to ISIL’s changing tactics and the President’s reluctance to listen to the advice of his experienced military advisors. After today’s hearing, I am further convinced that the President needs to devote more resources and attention to effectively destroy ISIL. Additionally, I believe that a comprehensive plan, which considers all options presented from our military leaders, is critical to complete our mission, protect our national interests, and bring peace to Iraq and Syria.” Click here to view the video from today’s hearing.
10.17.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in regards to the current ongoing Ebola outbreak: “The Center for Disease Control’s (CDC) negligence to contain Ebola at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas has lead to the preventable infection of two American nurses. It has also escalated fear that a full-blown pandemic will spread across the United States. President Obama continues to stall and waste precious time, rather than enforcing proper protocols with extensive assistance that would curtail this problem. We must use all means necessary to fight against Ebola. This includes travel and visa restrictions, additional border support, increased airport screening, and access to appropriate hazardous material supplies at hospitals. We must not look back on this outbreak and believe that our government did ‘too little, too late.’ The United States must proactively make the difficult decisions necessary to protect our families, rather than wait for outside groups like the World Health Organization to make these decisions for us.” *Congressman Wilson has been in touch with local healthcare officials to offer assistance and ensure hospitals within South Carolina’s Second Congressional District are prepared to treat Ebola. He is confident that healthcare facilities will work hand in hand with DHEC and enforce protocols to prevent further exposure or infection. Additionally, as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personal, Congressman Wilson felt it necessary to ensure the 1,500 brave men and women serving in West Africa in Operation United Assistance remain safe and protected from contracting Ebola. The text of the letter: The Honorable Charles Hagel Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Hagel: On September 30, 2014, the Department of Defense deployed approximately 1,500 soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division to Liberia for Operation United Assistance. Additional personnel are expected to deploy in late October and November bringing the total number to roughly between 3,000 and 4,000. With this deployment, I have concerns about the strategy associated with the role of the military in their response to the Ebola outbreak. I have a number of questions regarding the practical role of our troops in halting the outbreak and serving those affected. As the Ebola virus continues to spread throughout West Africa and has now surfaced in Dallas Texas, I would like to relay my serious concerns with the prospect of exposure and infection amongst the up to 4,000 deployed personnel serving in Operation United Assistance. I am extremely concerned for the protection and well being of our servicemen and women who have been deployed to curtail the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. As the Ebola virus spreads throughout West Africa and more recently infected two healthcare workers in Dallas I would like to know what exposure risk our troops are expected to encounter while serving as support for command and control, logistics support, training, and engineering support? Will their exposure be comparable to that of the medical personnel who recently contracted Ebola in Dallas, Texas? Additionally, what type of assurances are there that while serving in these roles the service member will not come into direct contact with an infected patient? And finally, could you please describe what a successful mission in West Africa would look like? As Chairman of the House Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee, it is my top priority that our servicemen and women are properly trained and equipped during their deployment. Many thanks for your considerations and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Joe Wilson Military Personnel Subcommittee Chairman
09.16.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement responding to a report released today by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirming that, contrary to specific promises made by President Obama and Democratic leaders, Obamacare subsidies are supporting insurance plans that cover abortions: “Today’s GAO report reveals the further deception and broken promises the President continues to make while implementing Obamacare. Even with Democrats’ assurances with the hastily passed bill, an overwhelming bipartisan group agreed a provision must be added to protect taxpayers from being forced to abandon their beliefs and fund elective abortions. In January of this year, House Republicans and Democrats passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2014, to address concerns that government exchange insurance policies were unlawfully providing abortion coverage. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid should pass our bill and send it to the President’s desk for signature in an attempt to restore faith with the American people.” NOTE: As one of many examples of where President Obama and Democratic leaders promised the American people that Obamacare would not fund abortions, on September 9, 2009, President Obama told the Joint Session of Congress on Health Care: “And one more misunderstanding I want to clear up -- under our plan, no federal dollars will be used to fund abortions, and federal conscience laws will remain in place.” This infamous speech is a shocking hallmark of President’s Obama duplicity.
09.10.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in anticipation of President Obama’s address this evening regarding the situation in the Middle East. “The security threat the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) poses to American families, the Middle East, and our Allies around the world deserves decisive action. As terrorists continue to slaughter innocent civilians and vengefully decapitate American journalists boasting of further attacks in America, I am hopeful the President will finally stand up for freedom instead of offering empty promises and weak rhetoric that lack resolve. “For years, scholars and foreign policy analysts have warned of expanding terrorist safe havens in the Middle East. The President ignored these concerns and mistakenly withdrew our troops from Iraq without securing a Status of Forces Agreement, which has put Americans at risk of attack at home and abroad. “The only way forward is effectively destroy ISIL and make it known throughout the world that terrorist organizations that seek to destroy the American people and our Allies will not be tolerated. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I will continue to closely monitor this situation and make certain that our interests in the Middle East remain protected.”
08.21.2014	WILSON ANNOUNCES ANNUAL BUS TOUR SCHEDULE (WASHINGTON) – On Monday, August 25, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual district Bus Tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his efforts in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Caroline Delleney with Congressman Wilson’s office at (202) 812-1426. Monday, August 25th, 2014 Lexington County 7:30AM – West Metro Chamber Breakfast - 1006 12th St., Cayce 8:45AM – Tour of SCE&G – 220 Operation Way, Cayce 10:30AM – Visit to Carolina Springs Middle School - 6180 Platt Springs Road, Lexington 12:00PM – Lunch at Shealy’s Bar-B-Que – 340 East Columbia Avenue, Leesville 1:30PM – Tour of Michelin Tire Corporation – 2400 Two Notch Road, Lexington 3:15PM – Visit with Chapin High School - 300 Columbia Ave, Chapin 4:30PM – Meet and Greet at the Irmo Chamber of Commerce – 1248 Lake Murray Blvd., Irmo Tuesday, August 26th, 2014 Richland County 7:30AM – Breakfast with the Greater Columbia Chamber of Commerce - Fort Jackson Drill Instructor School, 9574 Marion Ave, Fort Jackson, Columbia 9:00AM – Tour of Koyo Bearing Plant - 1006 Northpoint Blvd., Blythewood 10:20AM – Visit to Blythewood Pharmacy – 420-B McNulty Road, Blythewood 11:00AM – Tour of the SC Department of Motor Vehicles – 10311 Wilson Blvd., Blythewood 12:00PM – Military Officers Association of America (MOAA): Columbia Chapter Luncheon – Fort Jackson Officers Club, 3630 Semmes Road, Fort Jackson, Columbia 1:50PM – Visit to AC Flora High School – 1 Falcon Drive, Columbia 3:05PM – Visit with the Columbia Fire Department – 2847 Devine Street, Columbia 4:00PM – Tour the University of South Carolina’s Office of Economic Engagement – Horizon Building, 541 Main Street, Columbia Wednesday, August 27th, 2014 Aiken County 7:15AM – North Augusta AM Connections Breakfast – North Augusta Community Center, 495 Brookside Avenue, North Augusta 9:00AM – Halocarbon Products Corporation – 1100 Dittman Court, North Augusta 10:15AM – Tour of Aiken Technical College – 2276 Jefferson Davis Highway, Graniteville 11:30AM – Tour of Aiken Regional Medical Center – 302 University Parkway, Aiken 12:45PM – Visit to Millbrook Elementary School – 255 E Pine Log Road, Aiken 2:10PM – Visit with The Mill on Park – 237 Park Ave SW, Aiken 3:15PM – Tour of She’s Fit – 110 Park Avenue SW, Aiken 3:45PM – Savannah River Site Roundtable – Aiken Electric Cooperative, Inc., 2790 Wagener Road, Aiken Thursday, August 28th, 2014 Barnwell County 8:30AM – Tour of Unitech Service Group – 178 Aldo Drive, Barnwell 10:00AM – Tour of Dixie-Narco – 3330 Dixie-Narco Blvd., Williston *Additional Orangeburg County stop will be announced later.
07.30.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act, a bipartisan, bicameral agreement that begins to address the problems facing our veterans at the VA. This piece of legislation allows veterans to seek private care if they live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility, or are unable to get an appointment at a VA facility within 30 days. It also makes it easier to fire or demote senior VA managers who are not doing their jobs. “Our veterans have experienced the unthinkable at VA hospitals across this Nation because of the Administration’s mismanagement and corruption. I am very pleased that House Republicans and Senate Democrats have come together to address this very important issue. Giving veterans access to private care and promoting accountability are two necessary steps that will put us on the path to ensuring our veterans receive the health care they have earned and deserve. “My good friend and colleague House VA Committee Chairman Jeff Miller should be given tremendous credit for working in a bipartisan fashion. Although today’s bill is not perfect, I am proud to support it. Washington politics should not prohibit progress on an issue that has led to preventable deaths of the very heroes who risked their lives to keep American families safe.”
07.30.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in response to Boeing’s announcement that the company will be building the 787-10 Dreamliner in South Carolina. "Today's announcement is exciting news for our economy and jobs in the Palmetto State. Boeing continues to bring business to South Carolina primarily because of our successful right-to-work laws. The Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner is one-of-a kind and the first to be solely built in a nonunion factory. "Boeing’s decision to expand is tremendously significant for South Carolina’s Second Congressional District as it will create jobs at Zeus Industrial Products, LLC in Orangeburg for tubing, Prysmian Group in Lexington for cable, AGY in Aiken for cabin interiors, and Thermal Engineering Corporation in Columbia for composite exterior painting. I look forward to watching production of this superior aircraft and am thankful for Boeing's continued investment in South Carolina.”
07.24.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement upon the passing of Earl F. Brown, the former Deputy District Director for South Carolina's Second Congressional District. Earl worked in the Midlands Office for eleven years representing Congressman Wilson throughout the community. "I was advised this morning by Attorney General Alan Wilson of the passing last night of Earl F. Brown, the former Deputy Director of the Second Congressional District. This is a time to recognize an appreciated Patriot of our State. From his Army service, his Columbia Rotary Club dedication, to rising to being Director of the Human Affairs Commission to the Congressional Office, Earl was driven by his love of people. His loss is personal to the Wilson Family where four generations have affectionately identified him as 'Uncle Earl', a tradition that started with the births of our four grandchildren at Lexington Medical Center as Earl was always the first visitor bringing flowers. Our sympathy to his daughter Kim, son Felton, and his beloved church family at Brookland Baptist Church," Congressman Wilson stated.
07.18.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in response to ongoing attacks against Israel. “Yesterday, we saw Hamas break a cease-fire that they had agreed to and indiscriminately fire over 1,500 rockets at Israel. Israel has the absolute and sovereign right to defend herself from Hamas aggression. As tension continues to escalate, I am confident Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will make the necessary decisions to protect the Israeli people. Hamas rocket and mortar attacks must not be tolerated, especially as these terrorists are using Palestinians as human shields. Unfortunately, Hamas continues to invest in rockets and other tools of terror rather than investing in the Palestinian people and establishing a functional government that is capable of governing and helping the people. The United States must stand by our greatest Ally and should not support any organization or country that attempts her death,” Congressman Joe Wilson stated.
07.11.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed the FY15 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. This piece of legislation is very important to South Carolina, as it will provide resources for the Savannah River Site (SRS) in Aiken and Barnwell counties. “The passage of the Energy and Water Appropriations bill ensures that our vital national security and environmental missions at the Savannah River Site remain intact. I am grateful that we were able to provide MOX with the additional resources to move forward with its completion, which is necessary to fulfill our international nonproliferation agreements. The people of Aiken and Barnwell counties deserve consistency. For far too long, Washington’s budget battles have spilled into the homes of dedicated Site workers because the President and Senate Democrats prioritize unnecessary spending over our national security needs. As the Senate begins to consider its version of this bill, I remain committed to working with Senator Lindsay Graham and Senator Tim Scott to ensure that the Savannah River Site receives the appropriate resources to carry out all of its missions,” Congressman Joe Wilson stated. While the House debated this bill, Congressman Wilson delivered a speech on the House floor in support of the MOX project, along with Congressman Jack Kingston. The purpose of the speech was to speak in favor of MOX because the project was threatened by a damaging amendment that was later withdrawn. To view the speech, please click here.
07.09.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to Acting Secretary of Veterans Affairs Sloan D. Gibson’s visit to Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center in Augusta, Georgia, and the William Jennings Bryan Dorn VA Medical Center in Columbia, South Carolina. “Although I have faith in the local administrations at both facilities, our veterans are facing significant challenges when seeking medical care,” stated Congressman Joe Wilson. “I am very grateful that the Administration is finally making progress to address the inexcusable mismanagement that has plagued our system for years. As the former President and CEO of the United Services Organizations (USO), Acting Secretary Gibson has the experience and credentials to make a difference and restore accountability with our veterans. Moving forward, I will continue to closely monitor the situations at Dorn and Charlie Norwood VA hospitals to ensure those who have fought for our freedom receive the health care services they deserve and have earned.” ***Congressman Wilson is committed to ensuring our veterans are receiving the care they have earned and deserve. To achieve this goal, the office has created a website: www.joewilson.house.gov/shareyourVAstory where constituents can write in and share how they or someone they know has been impacted by the VA’s mismanagement. Please feel free to share this information with your audience.*** “I urge constituents to continue sharing their stories as the input is vital to correcting problems within the system,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
06.30.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court issued a decision in the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby case. “Religious liberty is a precious constitutional freedom,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “Today’s Supreme Court decision protects this right from the Administration’s deliberate attempts to restrict it. Businesses should always possess the authority to exercise its beliefs without fear from the government. “President Obama and his Administration continue to expand the size of government, so much so that it is trampling upon our freedoms. Obamacare continues to hurt families and denies American families the ability to make their own healthcare decisions. Evidence proves with the VA scandal’s waiting lists, delay of services, and possible preventable deaths that big government does not work. The only way forward is to repeal and replace Obamacare with a common sense, patient-centered solution.”
06.26.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled unanimously in NLRB v. Noel Canning that President Obama’s “recess” appointments to the National Labor Relations Board in January 2012 were unconstitutional. At that time the Senate was not in “recess,” but in a “pro forma” session. “President Obama has sadly abused the Constitution while ignoring Congress to achieve his big government agenda. His unconstitutional appointments to the National Labor Relations Board have made job-destroying decisions resulting in unfairness for our nation’s workers. Today’s ruling is great news for right-to-work states like South Carolina, who have been restricted and overregulated by the Administration’s ‘Big Labor Bully.’ Workers must have the right to make their own decisions and employers must determine what best practices serve their employees."
06.19.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after attending Corporal William “Kyle” Carpenter’s Congressional Medal of Honor ceremony at the White House. On November 21, 2010, Corporal Kyle Carpenter of Gilbert, South Carolina, risked his life for a fellow Marine when he threw himself on a hand grenade while keeping watch on a rooftop in Afghanistan. He is the 8th living recipient to receive this most prestigious honor while serving in Iraq or Afghanistan. “Corporal Kyle Carpenter is a true testament to America’s greatness,” Congressman Joe Wilson stated. “I have had the distinct privilege of knowing Kyle for several years. From my first visit with him and his mother Robin at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, I was impressed by their determination. Kyle’s heroic actions convey true selflessness. Throughout his lengthy recovery, he has shown character and fearlessness, traits that embody the spirit of our great nation. Corporal Carpenter is without a doubt a deserving individual to receive our nation’s highest recognition of valor. He answered the call of duty and without hesitation, put himself in harm’s way to save a comrade’s life with the intention of preserving our freedoms. He embodies the New Greatest Generation.” *Earlier this year, Congressman Wilson awarded Corporal Kyle Carpenter with the Civilian Marksmanship Program’s Patriot Award. This Congressionally created nonprofit program honors a selected district veteran who has demonstrated valor in military service and a continued dedication to his or her fellow Americans after returning from service. The Patriot Award honors a “hometown hero” in hopes of demonstrating to youth that the ideas they read about in history books are, in reality, regular Americans who rose to the occasion – hopefully inspiring them to follow suit. Kyle is without a doubt a deserving recipient of this award.
05.30.2014	(Washington, DC) – Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement after President Obama announced he had accepted Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki’s resignation. “I appreciate Secretary Eric Shinseki’s resignation and believe it will be a positive step towards restoring faith with those who have honorably served our Nation. As we move forward, it is my hope that President Obama lives up to the promises he made on the campaign trail in 2008 and puts an end to the delays and denial of services our veterans face each day. I also believe the Administration should proceed with criminal investigations into the cover-ups that have led to the preventable complaints, illnesses, and deaths that plagued our VA system for years,” Wilson stated.
05.29.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced plans to recognize Zachary Valsecchi, a third grader at Round Top Elementary School in Blythewood, South Carolina, as the winner of the First Annual Second Congressional District Elementary School Challenge. Earlier this year, Congressman Wilson sent a letter to all elementary schools in the district encouraging third grade classrooms to submit an entry detailing a student’s favorite part of South Carolina history. The office received over 100 entries. What: Congressman Wilson will recognize Zachary Valsecchi as the winner of the First Annual Second Congressional District Elementary School Challenge. Zachary’s entry focused on the significance of the “Best Friend of Charleston,” America’s first regularly scheduled passenger service train that traveled to Charleston, South Carolina, in the 1830’s. Who: Congressman Joe Wilson, Principal Jeaneen Tucker, 3rd grade teacher Cathy Williams, and students at Round Top Elementary School When: Tuesday, June 3, 2014 at 10:30-11:00AM Where: Round Top Elementary School – 449 Rimer Pond Road, Blythewood, SC 29016 Why: As a parent to four boys and the husband to a retired teacher, Congressman Joe Wilson knows that a firm education ensures future success. By conducting this competition, the Congressman gave third graders an opportunity to share what they had learned throughout the year studying the Palmetto State’s unique history. *Media is invited to attend. Please RSVP to Caroline Delleney at (202) 812-1426 or caroline.delleney@mail.house.gov.
05.28.2014	Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement after sending a letter to President Obama requesting Secretary of Veteran Affairs Eric Shinseki be removed from his position immediately. “The Administration’s inability to provide services to our veterans is inexcusable. When President Obama campaigned for the White House, he claimed a desire to help our heroes receive the care they deserve and earned while fighting for our freedoms. Sadly, throughout the last few years the Department of Veterans Affairs has become riddled with scandal, neglect, and incompetence under Secretary Eric Shinseki’s mismanagement. The only way to move forward is to appoint a new Secretary in hopes of restoring faith to our veterans, military families, and the American people. I support American Legion Commander Dan Dellinger’s call for the resignation of Secretary Shinseki. As complaints, illnesses, and deaths that are a result of inadequate care are brought to light on a daily basis, wasting precious time is not an option. We must take immediate action to ensure the issues with the VA are resolved as quickly as possible with effective leadership,” said Chairman Joe Wilson. The text of the letter below: May 29, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, I have reviewed numerous reports concerning the failures of Secretary Erik K. Shinseki and I join with the American Legion Commander, Dan Dellinger, supporting his removal as the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs. For months I have given him the benefit of the doubt for removal, but every day more facts arise that demand his immediate removal. He has also lost the confidence of many in Congress, the American people and most importantly, our veterans due to the uncontrolled scandals at multiple VA health facilities that have plagued the Department of Veterans Affairs. Specifically, in South Carolina’s Second District, the William Jennings Bryan Dorn VA Medical Center was investigated for deaths, delays, inadequate facilities, and personnel issues, just to name a few. Unfortunately these incidents, revealed by concerned professional staff, are not isolated to South Carolina, but mirror many of the problems that have been revealed at other VA health facilities across the country; most recently the Phoenix VA Medical Center. Although each investigation was different, they exposed a long-term lack of leadership and management. Additionally, the Inspector General Reports that are created semiannually or after a reported incident do not receive the level of attention by the leadership to ensure implementation of the recommended courses of action to correct the deficiencies, to prevent future problems at the investigated facility, or to provide best practices for VA facilities that have had similar experiences. The aforementioned incidents do not outline all of the complications within the VA medical system but represents a very small fraction of the systematic mismanagement of personnel, records, and resources that could be prevented. It is also a direct reflection of the lack of leadership demonstrated by Secretary Shinseki, who has been known for his behind the scenes approach to management. I believe that it is apparent now that this approach is ineffective and has led to the death of many great American veterans who expected competent and timely medical care in return for their sacrifice to this Nation. Numerous reports have already been ignored by you and the Secretary, we cannot wait for an investigation that may take several months to years to complete. It is time that Secretary Shinseki is held accountable, much like military officers, for his less than adequate performance. Our veterans have earned the right to proper medical treatment and they deserve the benefit of good leadership. I appreciate your consideration in this matter and look forward to an expedient resolution that will ensure the transparency and accountability needed to appropriately care for our veterans and restore faith in the VA medical system. Sincerely, Joe Wilson MEMBER OF CONGRESS
05.22.2014	Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act of FY2015. This piece of legislation is the avenue for funding our military and vital national security projects. “Our brave men and women in uniform must remain capable and equipped to defend themselves and American families from our enemies. Providing for a strong national defense should be Congress’s number one priority. I am very pleased that this year’s National Defense Authorization Act promotes this goal. “As a 31-year veteran of the South Carolina Army National Guard and grateful father of three Guard members, I understand the importance of each sovereign state’s reserve force and the role these volunteers play in protecting our national security. Defense sequestration has caused the Administration to place some of our most precious resources on the chopping block. I am pleased that this year’s NDAA includes a bipartisan amendment I proposed in Committee with Congressman Bill Enyart (D-IL) that preserves the National Guard’s purpose. “Upholding our nuclear nonproliferation agreements is not up for negotiation. I understand the MOX facility is of vital national security importance and I support its completion. For far too long, Washington’s budget battles have spilled into the homes of dedicated Site workers. The people of Aiken and Barnwell counties deserve consistency. I am very pleased that a provision agreed upon in this bill supports future construction and requires a nonpartisan third party to determine a true cost estimate. MOX is essential to our national security as it honors nonproliferation agreements, converts weapons grade plutonium into green fuel, and promotes environmental cleanup. “In the months ahead, I look forward to working with Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator Tim Scott to ensure these provisions remain in the National Defense Authorization Act before it is delivered to the President’s desk for signature.”
05.21.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s statement after meeting with Veteran Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki this morning. In conjunction, the House is also scheduled to vote on H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014. “The mismanagement and lack of care our veterans are receiving from the Veterans Affairs Department is a disservice to our Nation,” Congressman Wilson stated. “Resolving these issues affecting thousands of those who have answered the call of duty to keep our families safe should be a top priority. “Apart from working on this issue for years, I have visited Dorn VA Hospital in Columbia, SC, and Charlie Norwood VA Hospital in Augusta, GA, both of which provide services and treatment to constituents who have honorably served. Although I see encouragement by the officials running each of these hospitals, Congress must make reforms to ensure that progress can be made to give our veterans the treatment they have earned and deserve. “The President’s disingenuous comments earlier today show that this Administration is not willing to do what it takes to fix the growing problem. Waiting for a bureaucratic report’s findings delays progress and does nothing to quickly address the severe backlogs and denial of services our veterans are facing each day. “Today, the House will vote on a bipartisan bill that makes strides to help our veterans by holding VA hospitals and its leadership accountable. All branches of government must work together to resolve this issue. The passage of this legislation is a step in the right direction. I encourage the Senate to take immediate action once this bill is passed and send it to the President’s desk for signature.” *After learning of multiple incidents at Dorn VA and Charlie Norwood VA hospitals, Congressman Wilson encouraged and accompanied House Veteran Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller to visit these facilities in January.
05.08.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.Res. 567, a resolution establishing a Select Committee on Benghazi. Fellow South Carolina Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-04), a successful prosecutor who is respected amongst his peers on both sides of the Aisle, has been selected to lead this Committee that will consist of seven republicans and five democrats. “Congressional oversight promotes transparency and holds our government accountable,” Congressman Wilson stated. “When four brave Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens, were murdered at the US Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 2012, President Obama vowed to bring those responsible to justice and prevent future attacks from occurring. Two years later, the American people have countless unanswered questions and the terrorists remain unpunished. “The federal government must work together impartially to reveal the truth about Benghazi. For nearly twenty months, the Administration has mislead the American public by placing blame on a video tape, ignored Congressional subpoenas, and refused to provide relevant information that will lead to the truth. Without these facts, we cannot guarantee the safety of American heroes serving abroad to defend our freedoms. The creation of this Select Committee brings us one step closer to giving the American people and the families of the fallen the answers they deserve as to what occurred in Benghazi.”
05.07.2014	Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee adopted an amendment into the National Defense Authorization Act. Wilson and Representative Bill Enyart (D-IL) were successful in inserting a provision that supports the National Guard’s readiness and leaves vital capabilities intact. The Army’s current aviation restructuring plan dramatically reduces the National Guard’s ability to maintain combat capability by transferring all of the AH-64 Apache helicopters to active duty. The amendment largely mirrors H.R. 3930, the National Commission on the Structure of the Army Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Wilson earlier this year that has 198 cosponsors. Instead of developing a commission, the adopted amendment requires the Government Accountability Office to study the Army’s force structure and report back to Congress by March 2015. It also addresses readiness by increasing shortfalls in funding and freezing end strength for the Active Army and Guard at 490,000 and 350,000 respectively. “Apart from assisting the States when disaster strikes, the National Guard serves as the combat reserve force for our active duty Army and Air Force when resources become scarce," Chairman Wilson stated. “Our military’s accomplishments are only possible because the National Guard willingly fought alongside its Active Duty brothers and sisters. At times during Operation Iraqi Freedom, these brave men and women in uniform represented over fifty percent of the Army’s total combat power in Iraq. Their commitment to uphold our freedoms has allowed the United States to maintain an all-volunteer force. “As defense sequestration threatens our military’s overall readiness, eliminating the National Guard’s capability to effectively defeat our nation’s enemies is the worst possible scenario. Such a substantial policy change undermines the security of American families and must be carefully examined. I am very grateful that the House Armed Services Committee believes appropriate resources should remain with the National Guard to ensure our troops remain properly equipped. I look forward to this bill’s passage on the House floor in the days ahead.” Note: By reversing the Army’s current policy, McEntire Joint National Guard base will remain properly equipped and ready to answer the call of duty. Transferring these aircraft to the active Army would significantly reduce personnel on military installations, thus negatively impacting local economies. Up to 6,000 highly trained individuals could be forced out of a job across the country.
05.05.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the death of former Congressman Butler Derrick (SC-03). “South Carolina has lost a great statesman. Former Congressman Butler Derrick served the people of the Third Congressional District for twenty years with true distinction. I am very appreciative of his willingness to cross the political aisle and work with the late Congressman Floyd Spence to promote new missions at the Savannah River Site. Roxanne and I extend our heartfelt sympathies to all of the Derrick family during this difficult time.”
04.30.2014	Chairman Joe Wilson of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement after the subcommittee passed its portion of the National Defense Authorization Act. “Defense sequestration is threatening the wellbeing of our military families and jeopardizing our defense capabilities. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I am very pleased with the progress this bipartisan group has made to ensure our brave men and women in uniform, their families, and our veterans have the resources they need, deserve, and have earned. We have also put key provisions in place to prevent our military from hollowing out so that those who answer the call of duty will remain safe while fighting for our freedoms. Next week, when the House Armed Services Committee considers the National Defense Authorization Act, I look forward to ensuring additional measures are available to provide for those who risk their lives to protect us.” Key provisions of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel mark: · Suicide Prevention – Our military families deserve all appropriate information surrounding the death of a loved one. Although suicide rates as a whole have decreased within our Armed Forces, further action must be taken to address the increase in suicides among Special Operations Command. This mark provides for additional reporting on suicide rates for immediate family members and requires an assessment by the Secretary of Defense on these increasing rates. · Sexual Assault Prevention – Over the years, the House Armed Services Committee has made substantial progress in addressing sexual assault within our military ranks. This year, we suggest taking an additional step by making every commander’s performance appraisal assess how the officer handled sexual assault cases and how unit members treat those who make allegations. · Protects End-Strength – The significant force reductions proposed by the Administration earlier this year threatens our national security. This mark proposes smaller reductions that keep our safety in tact while America remains at war. · Rejects Administration’s Proposals – This year, the Military Personnel Subcommittee was able to once again reject the Administration’s proposal to increase TRICARE enrollment fees. Our military retirees have dutifully served this great Nation. We must honor the commitments previously made to them.
04.29.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to Secretary Ernest Moniz's revised decision to continue construction of the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication (MOX) facility at the Savannah River Site until the end of September, which is the conclusion of the fiscal year. “Today’s announcement is only possible because the people of South Carolina have made their voices heard. Deciding to no longer place MOX in cold standby saves thousands of jobs and honors commitments made to hardworking employees at the Savannah River Site. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I remain committed to ensuring that MOX has the appropriate resources necessary to finish completion and become fully operational. Over the next few weeks, I will continue to work with House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon to secure MOX’s future in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. MOX is essential to our national security as it honors nonproliferation agreements, converts weapons grade plutonium into green fuel, and promotes environmental cleanup.”
04.10.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.Con.Res. 96, a concurrent resolution that establishes the federal government’s budget for FY2015 and sets forth appropriate budgetary levels for FY2016-2024. “American families balance their budgets,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “Washington should be required to do the same. President Obama and his big-government allies have developed a habit of spending well beyond our means while pushing tax increases. Throughout his time in office, the President has ballooned the size of our national debt by $7 trillion. This type of behavior is irresponsible and jeopardizes opportunities for future generations. “House Republicans know that we must cut wasteful spending in order to create jobs. Our budget paints a clear vision that this goal is easily achievable. By providing for a strong national defense, significantly reducing our debt, reforming ‘safety net’ programs, giving our small business owners the certainty necessary to create jobs, and balancing our budget, our economy will placed back on the path to prosperity. “We must change course and stop racking up debt on a non-existent government credit card. I am very grateful for House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and his effort to restore America’s greatness. It is my hope that President Obama and Washington Democrats will take our initiatives seriously and begin working with us to get our nation out of the fiscal black hole.”
04.10.2014	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after sending a letter to Department of Labor Secretary Thomas Perez regarding the Administration's decision to increase the minimum wage for federal contracts and its negative impacts for those employed on a military installation. 39 additional Members of Congress signed onto this letter, including House Education and the Workforce Chairman John Kline (MN-02). “Our military families have answered the call of duty and faithfully served our nation in defense of our freedoms. Vital services offered on military installations should not be placed in limbo because of a unilateral decision implemented by the Administration. Such a drastic policy change should have received thorough examination. In light of recent spending reductions targeted towards military installations, now is not the time to reduce support services our military families have grown to depend upon. Additionally, this government mandate threatens to destroy jobs at a time when American workers need them most,” Chairman Joe Wilson said. In addition to Chairman Wilson, the following Members joined in co-signing the letter: Andy Barr (KY-6), Rob Bishop (UT-1), Marsha Blackburn (TN-7), Larry Bucshon (IN-8), Bradley Byrne (AL-4), Kevin Cramer (ND), Rick Crawford (AR-1), Scott DesJarlais (TN-4), Jeff Duncan (SC-3), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Stephen Fincher (TN-8), John Fleming (LA-4), Bill Flores (TX-17), Louie Gohmert (TX-1), Sam Graves (MO-6), Tim Griffin (AR-2), Richard Hudson (NC-8), Walter Jones (NC-3), Jack Kingston (GA-1), John Kline (MN-2), Doug Lamborn (CO-5), Bob Latta (OH-5), Kenny Marchant (TX-24), Tom McClintock (CA-4), Jeff Miller (FL-01), Mick Mulvaney (SC-5), Tom Petri (WI-6), Tom Price (GA-6), Scott Rigell (VA-2), Martha Roby (AL-2), Phil Roe (TN-1), Todd Rokita (IN-4), Matt Salmon (AZ-5), Tim Walberg (MI-7), Randy Weber (TX-14), Brad Wenstrup (OH-2), Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3), Steve Womack (AR-3), and Kevin Yoder (KS-3). The text of the letter: April 10, 2014 The Honorable Thomas E. Perez Secretary U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20210 Dear Secretary Perez: We write to express our concerns about proposals to change the wage rate for services provided through federal contracts and their impact on services received by our servicemen and women and their families through military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) programs. Should these policy changes be fully implemented, we are concerned they will eliminate jobs, negatively impact recreational services on military bases, and limit the dining options for servicemen and women on military installations. On June 18, 2013, the Wage and Hour Division (WHD) issued a memorandum increasing health and welfare pay under the Service Contract Act (SCA). On February 12, 2014, the president signed an executive order (Executive Order 13658) raising the minimum wage for federal contracts from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour (and, indexed for inflation) for employees working on new federal contracts and subcontracts beginning on or after January 1, 2015. We are concerned that the net result will actually be lost jobs for many workers who are currently employed. In addition, we understand that restaurants facing these additional labor costs have already determined that it would be cost prohibitive to offer military personnel these dining options and some may consider not renewing contracts and operations shutting down. Finally, if a concessionaire sought to increase prices as a way to mitigate their increased labor costs, they are prohibited to do so. Price increases are not allowable under most contracts because they cannot charge more for similar services within a specified radius of a military installation. Military exchanges and MWR programs exist to provide services on our military bases. In the process of providing these services, they generate funding for military community programs, a source that is ever more important in light of funding reductions to base operations associated with the defense spending reductions. Contracted operations for fast food and other services are a key aspect of these operations and provide much needed and desired services for our military personnel while generating tens of millions of dollars to underwrite vital community support programs. As WHD progresses through the rulemaking process to implement Executive Order 13658, we respectfully request that you to work with the Department of Defense to ensure the appropriate non-appropriated fund instrumentalities and resale agencies are exempt for the wage rules and the SCA. Given the vital role these programs play in the lives of our service members and families, we seek to ensure they continue to have access to the services provided by federal contractors at military exchanges and MWR programs. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience. Should your staff have any questions or concerns, please contact Melissa Murphy of Congressman Joe Wilson’s staff at (202) 225-2452 or Loren Sweatt with the Committee on Education and the Workforce at (202) 225-7101.
04.03.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2575, the Save the Workers Act. This piece of legislation repeals the 30-hour definition of full time employment found in the Affordable Care Act and replaces it with a 40-hour description. Congressman Wilson is an original cosponsor of this bill. “Obamacare is failing families, destroying jobs, and preventing economic growth,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “The President has made many promises that have not been fulfilled.” “Millions of Americans have and will continue to receive smaller paychecks and reduced working hours because of Obamacare’s harmful restrictions. I’ve heard from countless constituents – single mothers struggling to feed their children, college students striving to pay their way through school, and seniors hoping to make ends meet – who plead with Congress to provide relief. “It is very sad that the people who need our help the most are the ones who are falling victim to the President’s signature healthcare takeover law. By redefining the definition of ‘full time employment,’ House Republicans are helping to increase wages and opportunities by reducing the government’s footprint in their daily lives.” *Congressman Wilson made a speech on the House floor yesterday in support of this bill. The text of the speech is below and video feed can be found here: “Obamacare is the saddest example of a big government failure. The American people have lost their healthcare plans, access to their most-trusted doctors, and been forced to pay significant premium increases for poorer coverage and higher deductibles. “On top of all these broken promises, it is tragic for American families that the President’s signature healthcare law will also destroy jobs. Everyday real constituents living in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District reach out to me expressing frustration with this broken law. Jennifer, a true small business owner from Lexington writes, “Keep trying to repeal Obamacare at all costs… The employer mandate will cause my business to move full time employees to part time.” Dozens of actual people express these same sentiments and plead with Congress to provide relief. “The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) was correct that Obamacare will destroy 1.6 million jobs. Obamacare’s 30-hour workweek rule is lowering wages for a significant portion of hardworking Americans, the very ones the President claims to champion. On behalf of the millions of Americans who are receiving smaller paychecks and having to work multiple jobs, I urge my colleagues to support this bill and provide greater economic security and opportunity for those who need it the most.”
03.31.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after sending a letter to Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz requesting the Administration reconsider its position on MOX, the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site. This one-of-a-kind project of national security importance helps the United States honor an international agreement with Russia by turning bombs into energy. “Today, I along with a bipartisan group of Congressional Members reaffirmed our belief that the Administration must change their irresponsible position on the MOX facility at the Savannah River Site. This decision jeopardizes our national security, directly attempts to usurp Congress’ power of the purse, and will cost American taxpayers millions of dollars without a return on investment. Inaction must not be an option and MOX should remain on course to completion,” Congressman Wilson stated. The text of the letter: Dear Secretary Moniz, President Obama’s recent budget request substantially reduced funding for the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) currently under construction at Savannah River Site (SRS). It also announced an intention to place the project into “cold-standby.” We have serious concerns regarding the President’s budget proposal decision on several grounds. As you are aware, this facility was chosen by the Clinton Administration and authorized by Congress as our nation’s means to dispose of excess weapons grade plutonium as we convert the material into commercial grade fuel. The disposal of this material is mandated by the US-Russia Plutonium Disposition Agreement. Placing this program into cold-standby will prevent the United States from honoring its part of the aforementioned agreement. At a time when The Administration is attempting to negotiate a nuclear nonproliferation agreement with Iran, defaulting on our own agreement sends a conflicting message to the international community. Additionally, halting progress on MOX will allow Russia to discontinue efforts towards disposing of their material. This could prove dangerous for our allies around the world and jeopardize our own national security as environmental cleanup of the plutonium at SRS would be stymied. Another issue that concerns us with this decision is that funding appropriated in the FY2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act and authorized via the FY2014 National Defense Authorization Act explicitly provided for construction of MOX. The funds were not authorized or appropriated for cold-standby, and we request they be used only for construction as Congress intended. We are concerned that the intent of Congress is being ignored and as a result we may see a usurpation of Congress’ power of the purse. Finally, the cost of MOX has dominated recent headlines. We all agree that it is our responsibility as lawmakers to be the very best stewards of each and every taxpayer dollar and to work to contain the costs of projects and keep them on schedule. The Department has used a $30 billion lifecycle cost, yet we have never seen the Army Corps of Engineers report detailing how this number was reached. We request that report and its justifications to be released in its entirety. Moreover, we request a study to analyze the cost associated with placing MOX into cold-standby, which is estimated to be between $700 and $900 million. The Department of Energy’s only alternative we are aware of would require renegotiation with the Russians and an alteration of the Land Withdrawal Act. We have strong reservations as to whether either of those measures are realistic at the current time. As you know, if the material is not moved out of SRS by January 1, 2016, a one million dollar per day penalty—up to $100 million annually—would be instituted. Thus, by simply doing nothing, or “studying other alternatives,” American taxpayers will be left to pick up a $100 million penalty annually with no expiration date in sight. Material will never move out of SRS, and the U.S. will have a serious blow dealt to its international credibility on the nonproliferation front. It will leave material stranded and derail environmental cleanup missions in South Carolina for years to come. And lastly, walking away would cost the American taxpayers far more money with no return on their investment. It is clear. We must finish the MOX project. We appreciate in advance your consideration of our concerns and we look forward to working with you ensure a path forward. *In addition to Congressman Wilson, 20 other Members of Congress, including the entire South Carolina Congressional Delegation, signed the letter: Reps. Mick Mulvaney (SC-05), Jeff Duncan (SC-03), Tom Rice (SC-07), Trey Gowdy (SC-04), Jim Clyburn (SC-06), Mark Sanford (SC-02), Phil Roe (TN-01), Paul Broun (GA-10), John Barrow (GA-12), Ted Yoho (FL-03), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Doc Hastings (WA-04), Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02), Mark Meadows (NC-11), Jack Kingston (GA-01), Robert Hurt (VA-05), Bob Goodlatte (VA-06), Richard Hudson (NC-08), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), and Steve Scalise (LA-01).
03.27.2014	(Washington, DC) – Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement on the increasing conflict in Eastern Europe. "As threats to the people of Ukraine intensify and 80,000 Russian troops have positioned themselves along the border, the United States must show true leadership and stand by our Allies in the region to promote peace through deterrence. The Administration's inconsistent foreign policy has raised concerns and our response to Russia's aggression must be carried out in a way that protects democracy and our national security. President Obama should prioritize this escalating conflict and work with Ukrainian government officials in order to preserve peace in Eastern Europe," Wilson stated. Earlier this afternoon, the House passed H.R. 4278, the Ukraine Support Act. This bill allocates $68 million to Ukraine in support of protecting their sovereignty and is fully offset by reducing assistance to Pakistan. More information on this bill can be found here. Yesterday, Congressman Wilson joined House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon and six other subcommittee Chairmen in sending a letter to the President requesting him to take a hard stance on Russia and share new intelligence with the Ukrainian government. Text of the letter: Dear Mr. President, We write today with urgency and alarm, based on new information in the committee’s possession. We are gravely concerned about the aggressive posture of Russian forces along the eastern border of Ukraine, as well as reports that Moscow may be making threatening moves towards allies in the Baltics. We urge your administration, working with our NATO allies, to share available intelligence information with the government of Ukraine that would enable it to take prudent and timely measures to protect the very “sovereignty and territorial integrity” that you have committed to maintain. We also believe it is imperative that the United States take precautionary steps to improve the posture and readiness of U.S. military forces in the region, and pursue additional measures to bolster the security of our eastern and central European allies and partners. While the details informing our concerns remain classified and will be outlined in an accompanying classified letter sent through appropriate channels, we would point to multiple unclassified reports and comments by senior officials within your administration, highlighting the tens of thousands of Russian troops massed near the eastern border of Ukraine conducting “military exercises,” the presence of Russian Spetsnaz special forces in eastern Ukraine fomenting civil unrest and chaos, and the large footprint of Russian naval forces and coastal troops in the Baltics. There is deep apprehension that Moscow may invade eastern and southern Ukraine, pressing west to Transdniestria, and also seek land grabs in the Baltics. Both the commander of U.S. European Command (EUCOM) and the NATO Secretary General are raising the alarm. Earlier this week in Brussels, EUCOM Commander, General Philip Breedlove, stated, “The [Russian] force that is at the Ukrainian border now to the east is very, very sizeable and very, very ready.” He also stated, “There is absolutely sufficient [Russian] force postured on the eastern border of Ukraine to run to Transdniestria if the decision was made to do that and that is very worrisome.” NATO Secretary General Rasmussen has also emphasized, “We are very much concerned about the Russian military build-up along the borders of Ukraine.” Mr. President, you have stated that you “are in close communication with the Ukrainian government.” We would expect this communication to immediately include any intelligence on Russian troop movements and possible attack scenarios into Ukraine, and to provide such information with sufficient time to allow the Ukrainian government to take prudent defense measures to protect its people, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. We also believe it is crucial that you direct the Secretary of Defense to increase and enhance the alert posture and readiness of U.S. forces in Europe without delay, including maintaining forward-deployed U.S. quick reaction forces. A failure to take such deterrent actions in the face of continued Russian aggression will certainly risk the very diplomatic and peaceful outcome that we all desire. Inaction by the U.S. and NATO will only further embolden Russian military planners, making further escalation more–not less–likely. As we have learned in previous crises elsewhere, if U.S. forces are not positioned in advance to respond to foreseeable threats, the options for senior decision makers become severely limited. To that end, we further call on you to convene an emergency session of the North Atlantic Council, to be led by Secretary Hagel and Chairman Dempsey, and to request that our NATO allies also enhance their force readiness in the event that an Article V response is required. Mr. President, we still have opportunity to deter Russia aggression, but President Putin must see our commitment to Ukraine and to our European allies and partners. He must visibly see our resolve, including our military resolve, and clearly understand the costs.
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON- Rep. Joe Wilson, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing on Military Personnel Overview. Witness testimony can be found on the Committee Repository as prepared for delivery; the committee is no longer providing paper copies of witness testimony. Additionally, a live video feed of the hearing can be seen on the Committee website. "Ladies and Gentlemen, the hearing will come to order. Welcome to a meeting of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel. This subcommittee hearing will examine military personnel issues in the Armed Services including force drawdown plans, military health programs, military compensation programs, and other personnel policies and programs. "Today the Subcommittee will turn its attention to the important issue of maintaining an all volunteer force that has experienced almost thirteen years of persistent conflict beginning with the attack on our country on September 11, 2001, by jihadists who have declared war on America. The military is now facing the largest drawdown and most draconian budget reductions since the end of the Cold War. The budgetary requirement for the Department of Defense to significantly reduce spending calls for a leaner and more adaptable force that impacts virtually all defense personnel activities. "The President’s budget significantly reduces ground and air forces end-strength and slows the growth of compensation and personnel benefits programs for all service members shifting spending to other programs. Our focus will include actions the services have taken to create efficiencies in personnel programs to include pay and compensation along with the policies and programs that still need to be examined to successfully continue down a path of fiscal responsibility without undermining the readiness of the all volunteer force at a time of unprecedented instability and threats to America from across the world. "I am also concerned about the manpower reductions that all services will undertake and how they will employ voluntary and involuntary separation measures to achieve those reductions and how they will reduce the non-deployable populations in their services. "The subcommittee’s goal today is to better understand how the Department of Defense will balance the budgetary realities of today and the future with the readiness and morale and continued success of the all-volunteer force. "We are joined today by a dedicated panel consisting of the Undersecretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the personnel chiefs or their deputies of the military services to help us explore these issues. Now I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses: Witnesses Lieutenant General Howard B. Bromberg Deputy Chief of Staff , G-1, U.S. Army • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-BrombergH-20140325.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-BrombergH-20140325.pdf Lieutenant General Samuel D. Cox Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services, U.S. Air Force • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-CoxS-20140325.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-CoxS-20140325.pdf Vice Admiral William F. Moran Chief of Naval Personnel and Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, (Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education), U.S. Navy • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-MoranW-20140325.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-MoranW-20140325.pdf Ms. Sheryl E. Murray Assistant Deputy Commandant for Manpower and Reserve Affairs Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-MurrayS-20140325.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-MurrayS-20140325.pdf Ms. Jessica L. Wright Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-WrightJ-20140325.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-WrightJ-20140325.pdf Support Documents • FRA Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140325/101943/HHRG-113-AS02-20140325-SD001-U1.pdf
03.13.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after questioning Secretary of State John Kerry in today’s House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing. The Secretary appeared before the Committee to testify on the State Department’s FY15 budget request. Because the President suggested placing the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site in “cold standby,” Congressman Wilson took this opportunity to question the Administration’s decision and press the Secretary on its national security impacts. “By threatening to terminate the MOX project, the President is violating agreements with Russia and threatening nuclear nonproliferation efforts. For constituents living in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, this decision hits close to home as it will destroy 1,800 jobs and confirms that this Administration is failing to follow through with its commitments. I am very pleased Secretary Kerry has acknowledged that renegotiating with Russia will be a difficult task, especially given our current relationship with President Putin. On behalf of South Carolina, I look forward to hearing the Secretary’s response to my question and hope that this will encourage the Administration to change its irresponsible position.” Click here for video. Text of the Transcript: Rep. Wilson: “I share in everyone's concern about the ongoing situation between Ukraine and Russia. Peace is threatened by President Putin's regional aggression. I believe it is of paramount importance that the United States exhibits strength and determination toward the Russian Federation. However, the disastrous decision by the President and his budget to halt progress on the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Facility at the Savannah River Site will allow the Russians the option to stop the disposition of 34 metric tons of excess weapons grade plutonium. Over the weekend USA Today ran a story in which Secretary Ernest Moniz of the Department of Energy commented, ‘at the right time’ the U.S. will have to re-engage in plutonium disposition discussions with the Russians. He went on to say, ‘now might not be the right time.’ My question is when will we be able to have these negotiations? If we back down on our end of the agreement, what assurances do we have that Russia’s excess material won't end up in the wrong hands?” Sec. Kerry: “Look, that's an excellent question. I honestly need to get deeper briefed on exactly what that decision was, how it was made, and why. Let me find out and we'll get back to you.”
03.12.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4138, the ENFORCE the Law Act, legislation that allows Congress to challenge executive overreach in the courts and increase government accountability. “President Obama routinely fails to execute our nation’s laws in accordance with the Constitution. Our immigration laws already on the books are lacking implementation, leaving our borders unsecure. The Administration continues to unfairly pick and choose certain Obamacare regulations to enforce, which creates uncertainty for businesses and middle class families. Just last week, constituents in Aiken County fell victim to the Administration’s recklessness as the President broke nuclear energy obligations by threatening to terminate the MOX facility at SRS. “Congress has an obligation to not only pass laws, but also ensure the Executive Branch follows through with its responsibilities. I commend Congressman Trey Gowdy’s efforts to hold the Administration accountable. Ruling by executive fiat contradicts our democracy and undermines the will of the American people,“ Congressman Joe Wilson said. *Congressman Wilson is also a cosponsor of fellow South Carolina Congressman Tom Rice’s STOP (H. Res. 442, Stop This Overreaching Presidency) resolution. The passage of today’s ENFORCE the Law Act could provide a pathway for the STOP resolution to be considered on the House floor.
03.05.2014	WHAT: In an effort to better connect the veterans living in South Carolina's Second Congressional District with the resources available to them, Congressman Joe Wilson will be hosting a Veterans Fair. WHO: Congressman Joe Wilson, veterans' organizations, government agency representatives, local employers, and various other local organizations such as: Social Security Administration, SC Works, Department of Veterans Affairs, SC National Guard, United Parcel Service, Hidden Wounds, Honor Flight SC, Lexington Medical Center etc. WHEN: Monday, March 10, 2014 from 10am-2pm* WHERE: Brookland Baptist Church Health and Wellness Center – 1066 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia, SC 29169 WHY: Provide easy access and place employers, agencies that handle benefits, and veterans in one location. ADDITIONAL INFO: Please visit www.joewilson.house.gov/veteransfair for an updated list of participants. *Congressman Wilson will be pressed for time as the travel around the district. He will be available for interviews with media from 10-11AM.
02.27.2014	WHAT: In an effort to better connect the veterans living in South Carolina's Second Congressional District with the resources available to them, Congressman Joe Wilson will be hosting a Veterans Fair. WHO: Congressman Joe Wilson, veterans' organizations, government agency representatives, local employers, and various other local organizations such as: Social Security Administration, Military Officers Association of America, Department of Veterans Affairs, SC National Guard, United Parcel Service, Hidden Wounds, Honor Flight SC, etc. WHEN: Monday, March 3, 2014 from 10am-2pm* WHERE: Aiken County Shrine Club – 1526 Columbia Highway N, Aiken, SC 29801 WHY: Provide easy access and place employers, agencies that handle benefits, and veterans in one location. ADDITIONAL INFO: Please visit www.joewilson.house.gov/veteransfair for a updated list of participants. *Congressman Wilson will be pressed for time as he must return to Washington for legislative business. He will be available for interviews with media from 10-10:45AM.
02.26.2014	Rep. Joe Wilson, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing on Defense Health Agency. Witness testimony can be found on the Committee Repository as prepared for delivery; the committee is no longer providing paper copies of witness testimony. Additionally, a live video feed of the hearing can be seen on the Committee website. "Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony on the Defense Health Agency. I would like to begin by acknowledging the remarkable military and civilian medical professionals who provide extraordinary care to our service members and their families here at home and around the world, often in some of the toughest and most austere environments. I have firsthand knowledge of their dedication and sacrifice from my son, Addison, who is a Navy orthopedic surgeon stationed in Naples, Italy. "In 2011, the House passed legislation establishing a Joint/Unified Medical Command as a method of making a streamlined and efficient military health system, which has been shown by multiple studies to be a potential source of great cost savings. Ultimately, the Department of Defense rejected the option of a Joint Command deciding instead to establish the Defense Health Agency as part of an overall restructure of the governance of the Military Health System to drive efficiencies and cost savings. This was done despite concerns raised by the Government Accountability Office about the Department’s analyses of options for restructuring the military health system. "I am anxious to hear from our witnesses how the Defense Health Agency is progressing, including your forecast for accomplishing the goals of increased efficiency and cost reduction. To that end, I would like the witnesses to address the following: • The Government Accountability Office offered several recommendations regarding implementation of the Defense Health Agency. How has the Department addressed these recommendations? Was a comprehensive cost analysis of the Defense Health Agency conducted and what were the results? • In June of 2013 the Department estimated that the Defense Health Agency staffing requirement would be 1,081. By October 2013 that estimate nearly doubled to 1,941. What is the current DHA staffing level? If it has deviated from the estimate, please explain why. Are further increases in staffing requirements expected? • Given that seven of the ten shared services were implemented at the beginning of this fiscal year, are current spending and saving levels on par with the projections, especially the Pharmacy Program which was projected to attain early savings? "Finally, I would like to hear how the military Surgeons General were involved in the implementation process. "I hope that our witnesses will address these important issues as directly as possible in their oral statements and in response to Member questions. We have three witnesses today. We would like to give each witness the opportunity to present his testimony and each member an opportunity to question the witnesses. "At this time, without objection, I ask unanimous consent that an additional statement from the American Clinical Laboratory Association (below) be included in the record of this hearing. Let me welcome the panel: Witnesses Ms. Brenda S. Farrell Director, Defense Capabilities and Management, U.S. Government Accountability Office • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-FarrellB-20140226.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-FarrellB-20140226.pdf Lieutenant General Douglas J. Robb Director, Defense Health Agency, U.S. Air Force • Joint DHA/DOD Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-RobbD-20140226.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-RobbD-20140226.pdf Dr. Jonathan Woodson Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, Department of Defense • Joint DHA/DOD Statment PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-WoodsonJ-20140226.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-WoodsonJ-20140226.pdf Support Documents • ACLA Statement for the Record PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140226/101786/HHRG-113-AS02-20140226-SD001.pdf "Before we begin I’d like extend a special welcome to General Robb as this is his first appearance before the subcommittee."
02.20.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a study which threatens the future of the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site (SRS). “Any decision by the Administration to stall or terminate MOX is reckless and strictly political. By taking either of these measures, the American taxpayers will incur billions in cleanup costs, key nonproliferation objectives will be derailed, and weapons grade plutonium will be stranded with no path forward. My colleagues and I in the United States Congress are determined to fight back against this possible decision. In the coming weeks, I plan to launch a campaign against any attack by the Administration to help secure the future of this project. The President has chosen to play politics with our nation’s nuclear nonproliferation strategy and this will not be tolerated.” *Congressman Wilson has vocally and actively fought for the MOX project. Over the past year, he was able to secure support for the facility in the National Defense Authorization Act. He has given a floor speech on the significance of the project, urging his colleagues’ support. Wilson also spearheaded a letter to President Obama from the entire South Carolina House Delegation calling on him to get behind MOX as it is necessary to fulfill our international obligations.
02.11.2014	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed the Military Retiree Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA), by a vote of 326-90. This bill grandfathers the one percent COLA reduction to the military retirement pay that passed as part of December’s bipartisan budget agreement. “Our military retirees have made tremendous sacrifices at home and abroad to defend our freedoms,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “As a Congressional body, it is our responsibility to honor the commitments we have previously made to those who have faithfully served. As a 31-year veteran myself, I am very pleased to support today’s legislation which restores the retirement benefits our courageous veterans have earned and deserve. This measure overwhelmingly passed the House with bipartisan support. I see no reason why the Senate can not follow in our footsteps and send this bill to the President’s desk for his signature."
01.29.2014	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing on Religious Accommodations in the Armed Services. Witness testimony can be found linked below and on the Committee Repository as prepared for delivery; the committee is no longer providing paper copies of witness testimony. Additionally, a live video feed of the hearing can be seen on the Committee website . "Ladies and Gentlemen, the hearing will come to order. Welcome to a meeting of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel. Today, the subcommittee will examine religious accommodations in the Armed Services including the military services' interpretation, enactment and enforcement of religious accommodation statutory and regulatory guidance. "Historically the Armed Forces have supported religious freedom and when possible, accommodated service member’s religious beliefs and practice. I believe we can maintain a proper balance between religious accommodations which will promote military readiness, unit cohesion, and good order and discipline. This should not present challenges for the military services. Chaplains have always been vital to our military. One of the strengths of our military is its diversity with mutual respect and as such it has been important for Congress to work with the Department of Defense to ensure that appropriate statutory and regulatory guidance is in place in order for the services to the meet important spiritual and religious needs of their troops. "Recognizing that there have been challenges in accommodating religious practices and beliefs we have engaged in various efforts to clarify the role of religion in the military, prevent religious discrimination, and provide appropriate religious accommodations for those service members who seek it. "Our goal today is to better understand how the Department of Defense has balanced the implementation of the religious accommodations policy with maintaining military readiness, unit cohesion and good order and discipline. "I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses: Witnesses Brigadier General Charles R. Bailey Deputy Chief of Chaplains, U.S. Army • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-BaileyC-20140129.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-BaileyC-20140129.pdf Mr. Douglas L. Carver Executive Director, North American Mission Board • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-CarverD-20140129.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-CarverD-20140129.pdf Rev. James B. Magness Bishop Suffragan of the Armed Forces and Federal Ministries, Washington National Cathedral • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-MagnessJ-20140129.pdf • Financial Disclosure PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-MagnessJ-20140129.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-MagnessJ-20140129.pdf Brigadier General Bobby Page Deputy Chief of Chaplains, U.S. Air Force • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-PageB-20140129.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-PageB-20140129.pdf Ms. Virginia Penrod Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy, Department of Defense • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-PenrodV-20140129.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-PenrodV-20140129.pdf Rear Admiral Upper Half Mark L. Tidd Chief of Navy Chaplains, U.S. Navy • Witness Statement PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Wstate-TiddM-20140129.pdf • Witness Biography PDF: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS02/20140129/101681/HHRG-113-AS02-Bio-TiddM-20140129.pdf "And our last witness, who could not be with us today, due to the unusual winter weather in the southeast United States this week was Mr Douglas Carver, Chaplain, Maj Gen (ret.), U.S. Army, Executive Director, North American Mission Board. We will enter his testimony into the record."
01.28.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Obama concluded his State of the Union address. “As Americans tuned into the State of the Union address this evening, they were hopeful the President would provide reassurance that our economy is on its way to recovery. Tonight’s speech was anything but optimistic. “Since he took office in 2009, President Obama has refused to work with Congress. Instead of making our weak economy his top priority, he has supported an agenda that destroys jobs and discourages America’s small businesses from hiring. His threat to disregard the legislative body by implementing his anti-job growth policies by “pen” and “phone” conveys a new level of irresponsibility. It undermines the will of the American people. “The President has the ability to approve construction of the Keystone Pipeline, which will create thousands of immediate shovel ready jobs. He possesses the means to work with House Republicans to find an alternative to the government healthcare takeover bill. He is capable of reducing regulations on small businesses, which will allow them to begin hiring again, become more profitable, and increase their hardworking employees’ wages. “House Republicans have worked tirelessly to promote job creation through actions not words. We’ve passed and will continue to pass dozens of bills that will put Americans back to work. The President ignores our efforts. He issues veto threats while campaigning around the country offering empty promises. “The American people expect more from their elected officials. By passing last month’s bipartisan budget, agreeing to several Obamacare reforms, and protecting our brave men and women in uniform, Congress has shown that we can work together. It is my hope that the President and his Administration will change course and become part of the team. The American people deserve better than his type of uncooperative behavior.”
01.28.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. This piece of legislation prohibits the use of federal funds for abortion or healthcare plans that cover abortion, except in the cases of rape, incest, or when the life of the mother is at risk. Due to the nature of the Affordable Care Act, the plans offered in the government healthcare exchanges do not appropriately identify whether or not a specific plan excludes abortion. This legislation would require disclosure of abortion coverage for each plan offered in the exchanges. “Once again, the President and his colleagues have broken another promise to the American people. Washington Democrats passed Obamacare under the solemn promise that taxpayer dollars would not be used to cover abortions; yet, evidence exists that taxpayer subsidies are available for plans that cover this definitive procedure. “Life begins at conception. The right to life is a precious, unalienable virtue endowed to us by our Creator. Forcing taxpayers who are morally opposed to contributing to abortions, which deprives the innocent unborn of this right, is unethical and contradicts the freedoms on which our nation was founded,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
01.27.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced H.R. 3930, the “National Commission on the Structure of the Army Act of 2014.” A bipartisan group of 16 cosponsors joined Congressman Wilson in supporting this legislation. “Over the last 12 years of combat operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Army and Congress have made significant investments in order to make the National Guard a truly operational reserve force that is interchangeable with the active duty Army. There were times during Operation Iraqi Freedom when the Army National Guard represented 50% of the Army’s combat power. We cannot stray away from the Total Force Policy that has served our country so well and allowed us to maintain an all-volunteer force. "This restructuring also significantly reduces personnel, many of whom are aviation personnel with years of experience as either pilots or in aircraft maintenance. Over 6,000 of these personnel, whom the Army has invested significant time and money, will be forced out of a job and will be cut from the Army National Guard as a result of this proposal. Such a restructuring cannot and should not be rushed. We must take our time and examine the issue to make sure that our Army and our Soldiers remain the best in the world,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. *Serious concerns have been brought to light regarding proposed changes to Army force structure, especially the proposed Army Aviation restructuring plan. This aviation restructuring plan would have a significantly negative impact on Army National Guard aviation and the Total Army. The National Guard is the primary combat reserve for the Army and should mirror the active duty force. However, this plan takes all of the AH-64 Apache helicopters and places them with active duty, leaving no strategic depth and reach back capability for support. It also takes over 100 of the LUH-72 Lakota, a helicopter purchased specifically for the National Guard, and transfers it to be used as the Army’s new training helicopter. This is not what Congress intended. *A copy of the bill can be found here. Army Restructuring
01.24.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) held a roundtable meeting with community leaders in Aiken and Barnwell counties this afternoon to discuss the importance of the Savannah River Site. Earlier this year, Congressman Wilson outlined his legislative agenda for 2014. Advocating for the Savannah River Site’s mission and ensuring that it retains a full workforce are two of his top priorities. In order to achieve this goal, Congressman Wilson felt it was necessary to meet with SRS contractors, community leaders, and locally elected officials in one setting to hear their concerns. “The frank discussion shared this afternoon is most beneficial for the Site,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “Although many of the different players have different priorities, one clear objective remains: we must do all that we can to ensure the Savannah River Site’s national security missions remain intact with a dedicated full workforce. I appreciate the team efforts of local officials, contractors, and DOE to promote current and future missions at the Site. As the only member of Congress who has worked at SRS, I have been active in securing support for key national security missions. Moving forward, it is imperative that we bring attention to the role SRS plays in protecting our national security. I am confident that as we continue to garner additional support for these missions, both within our State delegation and nationally, this goal will be achieved." *Participants invited to attend: Savannah River Nuclear Solutions (SRNS), Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL), URS, Savannah River Remediation (SRR), SRS Retirees, SRS Community Reuse Organization, Barnwell County Administration, Aiken County Administration, Aiken County Economic Development Partnership, Southern Carolina Alliance, Greater Aiken Chamber of Commerce, North Augusta Chamber of Commerce, Barnwell County Chamber of Commerce, Midland Valley Chamber of Commerce, Citizens for Nuclear Technology Awareness (CNTA), Parsons, Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX), and Community Advocacy.
01.16.2014	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon announces his retirement at the end of the 133th Congress. “When I was elected to Congress in 2001, Chairman Buck McKeon was one of the first colleagues to offer his friendship and welcome me to Washington. For the past twelve years, I have had the privilege of serving alongside of him and under his leadership on the Education and the Workforce and the Armed Services Committees. “Chairman McKeon is a true champion for our brave men and women in uniform. His dedicated service to our Armed Forces deserves immense recognition. The unwavering commitment displayed over the years to better the lives of our military personnel, veterans, and military families knows no bounds. “Since becoming Chairman, our fearless leader has endured significant challenges. Our military’s readiness and capabilities were tested through military sequestration. The growing reports of sexual assault and misconduct threatened our troops safety. Veterans’ earned benefits were placed on the potential chopping block in order to reduce spending. Chairman McKeon confronted each of these challenges with resolve and continually fought for the best interests of those who selflessly serve our nation, our military families and our veterans. His guidance and leadership will be sorely missed. “Following his retirement from the United States Congress, I wish Chairman Buck McKeon and his wife, Patricia, all the best in their future endeavors. There is no doubt that the future Representative from California’s 25th Congressional District will have very big shoes to fill,” Congressman Wilson said.
01.16.2014	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing on Future Recruiting Challenges in the Fiscally Constrained Environment. Witness testimony can be found linked below and on the Committee Repository as prepared for delivery; the committee is no longer providing paper copies of witness testimony. Additionally, a live video feed of the hearing can be seen on the Committee website . "Welcome to a meeting of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel. Ladies and Gentlemen, the hearing will come to order. Today, the subcommittee will examine future recruiting challenges in a fiscally constrained environment and as well as discuss whether or not there is a need to expand the eligible population available for service in the military. "Historically after major conflict or war the military goes through a period of reduction and change, to include smaller budgets. The next several years will be no different except the Budget Control Act of 2011 will have a greater impact on the budget reductions. The committee has heard from the Department of Defense and the military services over the past year on the impacts of sequestration on end strength, readiness and procurement; but equally important is the impact on the ability to recruit an all volunteer force. Regardless of the size of the military, it must still be able to attract eligible and qualified individuals to serve. With the percentage of eligible youth between the age of 17 and 24 shrinking, it will remain a challenge for the services to recruit the best and brightest qualified candidates. "I personally believe service in the military creates opportunity and as many people as possible should have that opportunity to serve as long as they meet the required qualifications. I myself cherish the opportunities the military has provided my family. "I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses: Rear Admiral Lower Half Annie B. Andrews Commander, Navy Recruiting Command, U.S. Navy • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Major General Mark A. Brilakis Commanding General of Recruiting Command, U.S. Marine Corps • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Brigadier General Gina Grosso Director of Force Management Policy, U.S. Air Force • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Ms. Vee Penrod Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy, Department of Defense • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Major General Thomas Seamands Director of Military Personnel Management, U.S. Army • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF]
01.15.2014	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed a comprehensive appropriations bill for fiscal year 2014 (FY14). “Washington’s spending has spiraled out of control, risking the financial security of our economy and placing undue burdens on American families. By voting in favor of today’s appropriations bill, I have followed through with my promise to constituents outlined in my legislative priorities for the year. “We can not continue spending beyond our means. Our government’s growing national debt affects each and every one of us. The only way forward is to proactively begin digging ourselves out of the mess big government has created. Although today’s appropriations agreement achieves minimal savings in relation to our threatening debt, it is a step in the right direction,” Congressman Joe Wilson stated. Included in H.R. 3547, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, are several provisions that reduce spending from its current levels, while maintaining our national security: · The spending level is consistent with the discretionary spending outlined in the Ryan-Murray Bipartisan Budget Agreement passed in December. The level in this bill is lower than the President’s original FY14 budget request ($191 billion) and the Senate’s FY14 budget ($46 billion below). · The total discretionary spending is $21 billion below last year’s post-sequester level. This is the first time since the Korean War that spending has been reduced four years in a row. · The passage of this bill will result in total discretionary saving of $165 billion since FY10. · This bill also holds Obamacare funding to post-sequester levels, meaning no new or additional funding for the Affordable Care Act. · The bill also prevents the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services from funneling a $1 billion slush fund while cutting $10 million from the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB).
01.10.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3811, the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act. This piece of legislation requires the Department of Health and Human Services to notify individuals if their personal information has been stolen or unlawfully accessed through an Obamacare exchange. “The failed rollout of Obamacare has revealed the flawed law’s risks to consumers,” Congressman Wilson said. “The House has voted forty-six times to repeal, replace, or dismantle the government healthcare takecare bill. Unfortunately, President Obama and Senate Democrats repeatedly ignore our efforts. The fact that the faulty government-run website creates security risks for American families is unacceptable. The role of the federal government is to protect our fellow citizens, not allow them to fall subject to a possible breach of private security information. As an original cosponsor of this bill, I am hopeful that the Senate will take responsibility for the mistakes created under Obamacare and pass this legislation.” *Congressman Wilson delivered a floor speech in support of this legislation yesterday. Last October, a constituent reached out to the office upon realizing that his personal security information had been compromised after attempting to enroll in Obamacare. Click here to see his remarks.
01.06.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following statement after touring Dorn VA Medical Center in Columbia, SC, and Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center in Augusta, GA, today with House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (FL-01). “Due to a lack of leadership by the current Administration, thousands of our veterans are facing challenges while seeking treatment at local VA hospitals. Constituents who have earned access to services at both Dorn VA Medical Center in Columbia, SC, and Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center in Augusta, GA, have reached out to me expressing major concerns with their experiences at both of these facilities. “I am pleased that Chairman Jeff Miller chose to visit these establishments today and I am very honored to have accompanied him. Our veterans have risked their lives protecting our freedoms and deserve the highest quality healthcare care in a timely fashion. The inexcusable challenges our heroes are facing must be addressed immediately. Today’s visit assures our veterans that Congress is aware of these concerns and will do everything within our power to make sure that these problems will be resolved. Chairman Miller and I both care deeply for our veterans and remain committed to promoting their well-being,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
01.03.2014	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after unveiling his 2014 Legislative Agenda at five press conferences across South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. “In 2013, we witnessed the disastrous impacts of big government,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “From the Administration’s failed rollout of Obamacare to the undermining of our national security by sequestration, we know that this type of governance does not bode well for our families, our economy, or our safety. “Last year, House Republicans passed several bills that would put our economy back on a path to greatness. For years, American families and small business owners have faced uncertainty because the Administration refuses to prioritize job creation. Instead, President Obama focuses on vetoing our legislation and garnering support for his unpopular policies. As our economic recovery remains on an unreliable path, our government must change course to alleviate the struggles imposed upon every American family. “Washington Democrats must begin to listen to the American people. I am hopeful that 2014 will bring new beginnings accompanied with substantial reforms that are centered on growing the size of our economy, not the size of our government and debt. The first two obvious steps in achieving this goal would be to repeal and replace Obamacare and encourage energy independence through the Keystone XL Pipeline. “Our national defense must remain at the very top of our priority list. A strong and capable military will keep American families safe while protecting our troops serving overseas in harms way.” The four main priorities of focus for the Second Session of the 113th Congress will be: Job Creation Through Economic Growth: Cut excessive regulations to help small businesses grow; Work with local chambers, county, regional, and state agencies to bring jobs to South Carolina; Protect South Carolina’s “Right to Work” laws; Repeal and Replace the government healthcare takeover bill which destroys jobs Reduce Washington’s Out of Control Spending: Make government more accountable by sponsoring legislation calling for biennial appropriations; Cut taxes to allow families to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks; Support a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution; Support Conservative budgets Energy Independence and Efficiency: Promote construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline; Continue to advocate for current and future missions at the Savannah River Site; Fight to ensure SRS continues environmental cleanup missions; Promote clean energy across South Carolina via Energy Savings Performance Contracts Promote Our Military and Veterans: Maintain our military’s responsiveness and capabilities to promote peace through strength; Protect TRICARE benefits and sustain the quality of life for military families as Chairman of the HASC Subcommittee on Military Personnel; Find efficiencies within the Department of Defense; Support Guard and Reserve units in their transition to the workforce; Ensure our Veterans receive quality healthcare
12.20.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will hold five press conferences on Friday, January 3rd, across South Carolina’s Second Congressional District to unveil his legislative priorities for 2014: 2014 Legislative Agenda Press Conferences Friday, January 3, 2013 8:45AM* Aiken Newberry Hall – 117 Newberry Street 10:00AM North Augusta North Augusta Chamber of Commerce – 406 West Avenue 12:00PM Barnwell Barnwell County Library – 40 Burr Street 2:00PM Columbia Columbia Chamber of Commerce, Richland Northeast Location 110-2 Forum Drive, Village of Sandhills 3:30PM Lexington Lexington Chamber of Commerce – 311 West Main Street *Congressman Wilson’s press conference will take place immediately following the conclusion of First Friday hosted by the Aiken Chamber of Commerce. Media is invited to attend both events.
12.19.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after signing on as an original cosponsor to the H.R. 3788, legislation that removes the adjustments to military retirement benefits included in the bipartisan budget agreement. Funding for this measure would be found by closing a loophole found in the Child Tax Credit. “By supporting last week’s bipartisan budget agreement, I chose the lesser of two evils,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “Without the passage of this bill, our military would be subject to additional sequester cuts. Hollowing out our military and failing to adequately provide for our brave men and women serving to keep us safe is not in the best interest of American families. “We must honor our commitments previously made to those who risked their lives to defend our freedoms. I am very pleased that my colleagues and I have joined Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08) in attempting to reform our tax code to ensure accountability. Fraud and abuse run rampant within our federal government and it must be stopped. Our veterans should not be forced to suffer due to Washington's fiscal irresponsibility.” *Congressman Wilson also signed on as an original cosponsor to two additional bills addressing this very same issue. *On December 12, 2013, the House of Representatives voted to approve H.J. Res. 59, the “Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013”, by a vote of 332 to 94. This resolution, negotiated by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-01) and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray (WA), establishes a Fiscal Year 2014 (FY14) budget and the Senate subsequently voted to approve the measure on December 18, 2013 by a vote of 64 to 36. Included in Section 403 of this resolution is a provision, which makes a change to the annual cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for military retired pay and retainer pay for retired members of the Armed Forces under the age of 62. Each fiscal year, the COLA is based upon the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the previous fiscal year. Under this recently passed agreement, members and all former members of the military under 62 years of age will receive an annual COLA equal to inflation (CPI) minus one percent. Once an individual reaches the age of 62, their retired pay will return to the full adjustment equal to the CPI and will continue to receive a full COLA from then on. This provision does not alter the COLA for disability compensation or health care benefits for disabled veterans and does not affect military retirement base pay, which is determined by rank and years of service.
12.12.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed a bipartisan budget resolution to fund the government. This legislation provides two years of budget certainty for the federal government. In years past, the federal government has operated under continuing resolutions. “When I was elected to Congress, I promised to help make a difference. The status quo is not working,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. “Government overspending while racking up trillion-dollar deficits is irresponsible, especially when we know that our children and grandchildren will be faced with the burden. “House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan was able to reduce spending from its current levels to help pay down our debt without raising taxes. For years, House Republicans have spent the better part of December in battles with Washington Democrats in hopes of not raising taxes so that the American people could keep more of their hard-earned paychecks. “Additionally, President Obama’s sequester, which targets the military, has already limited our Armed Forces’ abilities to protect themselves and defend our freedoms. Military installations across South Carolina and the Savannah River Site have faced challenges, which undermine our national security. I have warned against the horrible impacts sequestration would impose and have done my best to advocate for those who are suffering within South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. I am very pleased that Chairman Ryan was successful in finding common-sense reforms to replace sequestration that will not place families at risk. “The road ahead will be difficult as budget debates continue for years to come. However, we must remain hopeful that we can achieve spending reductions while promoting limited-government solutions that create jobs and spur economic growth.”
12.12.2013	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in regards to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013, legislation to be voted under suspension today. “Congress has a responsibility to protect our brave men and women serving in uniform, veterans, and military families. The substantial reforms and priorities achieved in the 52nd consecutive National Defense Authorization Act would not be possible without the tireless leadership of House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I am very grateful for the progress made to combat criminal sexual assault in the military. When this bill hopefully becomes law, the victims of these hateful crimes will be better protected and the accused will be brought to justice for their actions. Additional requirements will allow us to honor the commitments we’ve made to our service members. Their unwavering service to our nation continues to keep American families safe and our freedoms preserved,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. List of provisions: · Over 30 reforms to combat criminal sexual assault in the military: Strips commanders of their authority to dismiss a guilty finding by a court martial; Significantly limits commanders’ ability to modify court-marital sentences; Establishes minimum sentences for sexual assault related offices and eliminates the five-year statute of limitations on rape and sexual assault; Reforms the Article 32 process to properly focus on probable cause and protects the victim from destructive fishing expeditions; Provides dedicated legal assistance to victims through Special Victims’ Counsels and whistleblower protection to victims of sexual assault. These provisions are necessary to better protect those who risk their lives to protect us. · Authorizes funds to keep the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at the Savannah River Site on its path to completion. This project, which turns plutonium from nuclear bombs into energy, is essential in protecting our national security and honoring our international obligations. · Rejects the Administrations request to force military retirees to pay more for healthcare by raising TRICARE enrollment fees. · Supersedes the Administrations refusal to honor our fallen military heroes by awarding the victims of Fort Hood, Texas, and Little Rock (Arkansas) Recruiting Station shootings the Purple Heart. Chairman Joe Wilson also delivered a floor speech in support of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013. Click here to view the speech in its entirety.
12.10.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House Foreign Affairs Committee concluded a hearing at which Secretary of State John Kerry testified about the interim agreement the United States recently finalized with Iran regarding its nuclear program. “Allowing Iran to continue enrichment and thus develop a nuclear weapon threatens the safety of the United States, our Allies, and stability across the Middle East. The Iranian government has consistently ignored United States and international pressure to discontinue its nuclear capabilities and production for decades. The Administration’s decision to make an initial nuclear deal with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, one that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vocalized strong opposition towards, suggests that President Obama is turning a deaf ear to our Greatest Ally in the Middle East. “Further action must be taken to ensure Iran ceases its nuclear activities that pose international security risks. The United States must stand firm by working with our Allies in the region to ensure that Iran halts nuclear production. I urge Secretary John Kerry to reconsider a new path forward because ignoring years of successful foreign policy norms have created international friction and placed the United States and Israel’s security at risk,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
11.21.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed three energy bills that promote and expand American energy production, create jobs, and lower energy costs. Congressman Wilson said, “Our nation has an abundance of energy resources. President Obama claims to support an “all-of-the-above energy plan,” but continues to wage his war on energy consumers and providers. Since 2009, the President and his Administration have stalled projects, increased regulations, and created obstacles that limit energy production. “Our economy can receive the growth spurt it needs by increasing our access to energy exploration and production. With new technological advancements within the natural gas and shale oil industry, we have opportunities to strengthen our energy independence and create jobs in an environmentally friendly manner. By expanding access to production, consumer prices will decrease, allowing American families to keep more money out of their hard-earned paychecks.” Energy package includes: H.R. 1965, The Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act – This bill protects and expands onshore American energy production, streamlines permitting processes, and reduces bureaucratic red tape and regulations. H.R. 2728, The Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act – This bill prohibits the Interior Department from enforcing federal hydraulic fracturing regulations in any state that already has regulations. It also recognizes states’ authority to regulate this type of activity. H.R. 1900, The Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act – This bill expedites the federal review process for natural gas pipeline permit applications.
11.15.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after a bipartisan majority in the House passed H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. This legislation allows the American people to escape the expensive premium increases and policy cancellations under Obamacare by allowing current available plans on the individual market today to be offered next year. It also ensures that American families will be able to keep their current plans without penalty. Congressman Joe Wilson said, “President Obama has broken his promise to millions of Americans who have been notified that their healthcare policies will no longer be available next year. Millions more will face this same challenge in the coming months. “Yesterday, the President made another unrealistic promise when he offered to provide a quick fix and allow families to keep their existing plans. At the same time, he also issued a veto threat for this overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation that allows him to legislatively follow through with his pledge. “Common sense conveys that the President is putting politics over policy when it comes to implementing his signature piece of healthcare legislation. His Administration is completely out of touch with the struggles American families are experiencing as a result of his destruction and intrusion into our healthcare system. “The failed rollout of Obamacare is just the tip of the iceberg. This unworkable law will erode the doctor-patient relationship, continue to increase premiums, and destroy jobs. The only way American families can experience true relief from this law is if the President works with House Republicans to repeal and replace it with common sense solutions.” *Congressman Wilson delivered a speech on the House floor yesterday sharing real-life scenarios constituents are experience as a result of Obamacare’s implementation. Please feel free to share the video and speech. *Additionally, if constituents would like to share their stories of dealing with Obamacare, they can visit www.gop.gov/YourStory. *Rep. Tom Price (GA-06) has proposed H.R. 2300, the Empowering Patients First Act, which is a patient-centered alternative to Obamacare. Congressman Wilson is a cosponsor of this piece of legislation. For more information, click here.
11.14.2013	This afternoon, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent a letter to all members of the Budget Conference Committee, including House Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-01) and Senate Chairwoman Patty Murray (WA), regarding the upcoming fiscal negotiations as it pertains to sequestration. Because of current law established under the Budget Control Act of 2011, the Department of Defense and Department of Energy's budgets will experience further reductions in January. Congressman Wilson has taken a proactive approach to encourage his colleagues to find alternatives so that our national security and South Carolina’s economy remain protected. The letter reads, “As you continue negotiations over the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget, I commend you and your fellow budget-conference committee members for taking on the difficult task of working towards a budget solution. It is my hope that a reasonable solution to the arbitrary sequestration cuts is found while providing a blueprint that will put our country on a more sustainable path. “As you and your fellow Committee Members begin the negotiations process, I ask that you make a concerted effort towards ensuring these essential cuts are made as strategically and responsibly as possible. I voted against the Budget Control Act because I knew that sequestration’s broad and indiscriminate cuts would decimate our military capability and strategic national security assets across the country. “In South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, we have seen the effects of the sequestration cuts firsthand. The Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site (SRS) provides the country with defense environmental cleanup efforts, nuclear weapons activities, and fulfills international non-proliferation agreements. SRS has been forced to furlough and layoff thousands of workers over the last year. The Site has also seen dramatic scaling back of vital national security missions that will drive up the overall costs of these projects. “One hundred miles northeast of Savannah River Site is Fort Jackson. Fort Jackson is the Army’s largest basic combat training installation and is tasked with training new Army recruits with the basic yet essential combat skills that every Soldier must possess. Sequestration has caused significant disruptions to training due to many Department of the Army civilians being furloughed, especially medical personnel. Training budgets have also been reduced and threaten to degrade the quality of training that these Army trainees receive. These budget cuts are already undermining our national security in the form of military readiness and threating the well being of our men and women in uniform." Budget Conferee Sequestration Letter
11.14.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following speech on the floor of the United States House of Representatives this afternoon to voice real-life scenarios his constituents are experiencing as a result of Obamacare’s failed implementation. “Mister Speaker, Obamacare is a disaster! The President knows it; Congress knows it; and most importantly, the American people now know it. The President claims to be working with Congress to stop the train wreck the ACA is waging on American families. Actions speak louder than words. It’s time for him to engage with House Republicans to find a solution. “We must help Mary in Lexington, South Carolina, whose healthcare policy premium has already increased 275 percent since the beginning of this year. And Rebecca from Aiken, who will be forced to pay $600 more a month for the same coverage in January. And Alvin, an uninsured Veteran also living in Aiken, who has tried to purchase insurance on the government healthcare website, but can’t afford it because the premium will be higher than his mortgage, utilities, and Internet combined. “This is absurd. For the sake of the middle class, we must replace Obamacare with common sense solutions that protects families, provides a safety net, and promotes jobs. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. Tomorrow, the House will vote on H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. This legislation allows the American people to escape the expensive premium increases and policy cancellations under Obamacare by allowing available plans on the individual market today to be offered next year. It also ensures that American families will be able to keep their current plans without penalty. *In addition, if constituents would like to share their stories of dealing with Obamacare, they can visit www.gop.gov/YourStory. *Video of the Congressman’s floor speech can be found here.
11.13.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the Administration released the first set of enrollment numbers for the Affordable Care Act. “To say the Administration should be embarrassed by Obamacare’s failed rollout is a gross understatement. Placing blame on a dubious, faulty website does nothing to address the problems American families are facing as a result of the unworkable law’s implementation. “The Affordable Healthcare Act will not work. Period. The American people overwhelming have lost faith in the Administration’s ability to provide affordable insurance that does not drive up premium costs, cancel current healthcare policies, or limit access to the physicians we have relied upon for years. “Former supporters of the law and those who have warned of its harmful impacts agree something must be done to protect the American people from further abuse. The President must be willing to come to the table and work with House Republicans on a solution. Arrogance and false claims will not insure the uninsured, give coverage to those who will lose their current plans, or create the thousands of jobs that have already been destroyed as a result of Obamacare,” Congressman Joe Wilson stated.
10.29.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the death of former President and CEO of the Greater Columbia Chamber of Commerce, Ike McLeese. “Ike McLeese was a dear friend whom I had the privilege of working alongside over the past 19 years. The Greater Columbia Chamber's success is attributed to Ike's tremendous leadership. Because of his efforts, South Carolina’s military installations, specifically Fort Jackson and McEntire Joint National Guard Base, have remained strongholds surviving the most recent BRAC. Our brave men and women who serve in uniform and their families have lost a champion who pledged unwavering support. Roxanne and I extend our deepest sympathy to his loving wife Sue and the rest of the McLeese family during this difficult time,” Congressman Wilson said.
10.16.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed a bill to fund the government until January 15, 2014, and extend the debt ceiling until February 7, 2014. Congressman Wilson said, “Prior to and during the government shutdown, I voted in favor of multiple pieces of legislation to keep the government functioning and protect our fragile economy from default. I am disappointed that I could not support tonight’s legislation because it did not reflect my core beliefs of limited government and expanded freedom. Congress has a long road ahead of us in the coming months and I remain committed to fighting for a better future for all of the constituents I have the privilege of representing in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District.”
10.11.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.J. Res. 76, the Nuclear Weapon Security and Non-Proliferation Act, a bill that funds the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) throughout the remainder of the government shutdown. “Because of the President’s government shutdown, vital missions at the Savannah River Site (SRS) have been stalled with thousands of hardworking employees subject to furloughs. The passage of today’s bill allows SRS to continue NNSA operations and provides the dedicated workforce with the resources they need to complete fundamental national security missions. “Over the past few weeks, constituents have reached out to me expressing tremendous concerns over ceased Site operations. As a former employee and the Site’s home-district advocate, I remain committed to helping families living in the Aiken-Barnwell community during this distressing time. Although I am pleased that a bipartisan group in the House has approved resources for the NNSA, it is Congress’ responsibility to fund Environmental Management operations as well. “Last week, I introduced legislation to keep every organization at the Savannah River Site up and running during the government shutdown. Every single mission at the Site plays an intricate role in protecting our national security. In the coming days, I will continue to encourage Congressional leadership to restore funding to the Office of Environmental Management. It is shameful that the President’s announced refusal to negotiate a solution to the shutdown has placed such harsh impositions on American families,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. ***Congressman Wilson also delivered a floor speech this morning in support of H.J. Res. 76. Please find the video here. Text is provided below: “…Funding our national security interests within the Department of Energy must be a priority in order to protect every American family. Today, the House will pass an important measure that will fund the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). The NNSA will provide a necessary resource that is critical and allows our country to continue operations for dozens of vital national security missions. I am fortunate to represent the Department of Energy Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell Counties, South Carolina. I especially appreciate its personnel as the only member of Congress who has actually worked at the Site. The passage of this bill is essential, as it will provide our dedicated workers who are handling these operations the security they need to complete their vital missions. Our nation is a much safer place because of ongoing Tritium operations and the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication facility currently under construction at SRS. These missions are essential to our nation’s national security as they allow us to service our nuclear stockpile and honor international nuclear obligations of nonproliferation. Additionally, the Savannah River Site, which established victory during the Cold War, has thousands of committed employees working on Department of Energy-Environmental Management projects. These professionals also provide crucial services to our country through their nuclear nonproliferation and environmental cleanup efforts. Although I am encouraged by today’s legislation, I remain hopeful that Congress can work together to provide necessary funding for these projects as well…”
10.09.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following speech on the House floor in support of H. J. Res. 91, the Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act. This bill that provides death benefits to survivors of military personnel who have fallen during the government shutdown. When the Pay Our Military Act was passed last week, Congress clearly intended these benefits be provided to our grieving military families. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, Congressman Wilson sent a letter last Friday to Defense Secretary Hagel demanding answers as to why the Administration refused to give death gratuity benefits to our brave service members’ survivors. Congressman Wilson is very pleased that today’s bill passed the House unanimously so that the families of our brave men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice to protect our freedom will receive the benefits they deserve. “…I stand today to express my shock at the Administration’s absolutely disgusting failure to keep faith with those that have paid the ultimate price in the service to our country. Today four of our fallen will arrive and have at Dover Air Force Base and the families in attendance will have had to pay their own way to be there for the arrival of their loved ones. This is a disgrace and an intentional policy to cause pain by an Administration whose actions are disrespectful of those who make our freedoms possible. “Soon we will vote to restate the critical death gratuities that we owe in no uncertain terms to the families of our fallen Service Members and to correct the injustice that is being thrust upon them. I am particularly disappointed in the Administration as the son of a veteran, as a 31- year veteran myself, but most gratefully as the father of four sons currently serving in the military. The Congress in a bipartisan way passed the Pay Our Military Act and it was signed into law for the express purpose of making sure that those who served in our Armed Forces, in defense of our freedom, are paid all that they are owed. The Administration already has the authority to pay this gratuity; every effort should be made to respect our service members and military families. The Administration is playing politics on the backs of the families of our fallen. This is unconscionable,” Congressman Joe Wilson said. *To view Congressman Wilson’s floor speech, please click here.
10.04.2013	Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), Chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel today sent two letters to Secretary of Defense Hagel on support to our troops and their families during the government shutdown. The letters address the crisis at America's military academies, some of which face losing their accreditation because of shutdown cutbacks. They also address certain pay and benefits, including the Death Gratuity, which is not being paid. All of these functions are allowed under the Pay Our Military Act, a law passed unanimously by Congress and signed by the President this week. Rep. Howard P. "Buck" McKeon, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, commented on the letters:"It is outrageous that the President has temporarily halted death benefits for fallen Americans who have given the ultimate sacrifice. I am no less concerned that restrictions on our military academies puts the next generation of heroes at risk. Congress provided the President broad latitude to keep these programs running through a shutdown. I am grateful to Chairman Wilson for raising this issue. I urge the President to use the authorities he has been granted to do right by our troops and our cadets. Certain things should transcend politics. The responsibilities of Commander-in-Chief sit atop that list." Congressman Wilson said:"The Department of Defense's refusal to pay the death gratuity or burial benefit is inexcusable. The grieving families of our service members who have paid the ultimate sacrifice defending our country deserve these benefits. It was Congress' intent when we passed the "Pay Our Military Act" that these benefits be provided without question to our military families. This decision confirms that the Administration is trying to inflict as much pain as possible on our nation's most vulnerable people during the government shutdown. The decision by DoD to furlough civilian faculty at the military academies is unacceptable. The Naval Academy is in jeopardy of losing its long term academic accreditation and the education of our midshipmen is being harmed. I urge the Administration to allow the civilian faculty to return to work immediately." View the letters here. Death Gratuity
10.03.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after sending a letter to Chief Administrative Officer Dan Strodel of the House Committee on Administration requesting that his pay be withheld until the government shutdown is resolved. Congressman Wilson stated, “Because of President Obama and Senate Majority Leader Reid’s failure to negotiate, American families are experiencing a shutdown. Thousands of families at Fort Jackson and the Savannah River Site could potentially face smaller paychecks as a result of this dilemma. If my constituents are feeling this pain, Members of Congress should as well." *You can find a copy of Congressman Wilson’s letter here. Withholding Letter
10.03.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed two different pieces of legislation that appropriate funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs and our Guard and Reserve units. “Today, a bipartisan group in the House passed a common-sense measure to stand with our nation’s deserving veterans and dedicated Reserve and Guard members. We should all agree that funding for these necessary programs and service members should not be up for discussion. “Unfortunately, President Obama has already threatened to veto these bills, which will deny our service members and veterans of crucial services and resources they have earned. For the sake of our brave men and women who have and are serving in uniform, I am hopeful that the legislative process will see itself through, and these bills will become law,” Congressman Joe Wilson said.
10.03.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after introducing legislation to fund the Department of Energy’s offices of Environmental Management and National Nuclear Security Administration in accordance with prior years' levels. “Because of President Obama and Senate Democrats’ refusal to sit down at the table and negotiate a solution to end the government shutdown, essential missions at Savannah River Site have been stalled and 1,400 dedicated employees have been furloughed. SRS plays a tremendous role in protecting our national security and should not be forced to limit operations. By introducing this legislation, I am hopeful for its passage so that our national security energy projects will remain intact with a full workforce.” H.J.Res.81
09.26.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was joined by other Members of the South Carolina Congressional Delegation in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy and President Obama regarding the EPA’s recent proposed rule to place stringent carbon emission standards on all new energy facilities. South Carolina’s energy producers have already been forced to expedite the retiring of twelve coal facilities due to past restrictions, which has driven up energy costs for consumers. The current Administration has made it common practice for the EPA to unilaterally institute regulations without seeking Congressional approval. The purpose of the letter was to demand these harmful proposals be sent to Congress for approval so that the American people will have a voice in these and any new policies. In addition to Congressman Wilson, the letter was also signed by Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott as well as Congressmen Jeff Duncan, Trey Gowdy, Mick Mulvaney, and Tom Rice. The letter reads, “Recently, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) made another attempt to circumvent Congress by proposing stringent carbon emission standards on our country’s energy producers. We are deeply frustrated with this proposal and the EPA’sattempt to overstep Congress in an effort to promulgate President Obama’s environmental agenda. “South Carolinians have seen firsthand the repercussions of rulemakings conducted by the EPA. As a result of the Agency’s published Mercury Air Toxic Standards in 2011, our state energy providers were forced to expedite the retiring of 12 coal facilities totaling 1,775 megawatts of power. Retiring these facilities prematurely drives up energy costs, destroys jobs, and hinders economic recovery in a state where over eight percent of her citizens are unemployed. We find this very troublesome. “Even more frustrating is the method by which the Administration, knowing how deeply unpopular its proposals are, continues to use its agencies to circumvent Congress. We strongly urge the EPA to submit its most recent proposal regarding carbon emissions for new facilities and any future proposals to Congress, instead of acting autonomously and alienating the United States' legislative body from the lawmaking process.” Please view a copy of the signed letter here.
09.20.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed a continuing resolution which funds the government through December 15, 2013. “Today, House Republicans have acted responsibly by passing a solution to keep the government’s doors open. Because of our efforts, American families are protected from the unworkable, unaffordable healthcare law and hardworking taxpayers can rest assured that our nation will stop spending beyond its means. “It’s time for the Senate and the President to act. Time is ticking. We have ten short days until the federal government’s funding will expire. Senate Democrats should follow our lead and join us in protecting the American people, rather than placing politics over policy and threatening a government shutdown.”
09.20.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new regulations limiting carbon emissions. Congressman Wilson stated, “Today, President Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency has once again attempted to circumvent Congress by proposing burdensome carbon regulations on our country’s energy producers. Members of the House of Representatives have made it clear that they do not support these regulations. In fact, the House has passed legislation specifically limiting the EPA’s ability to regulate or invoke these penalties. Unfortunately, South Carolina energy producers have already experienced the pain of previous regulations. Last year alone, Santee Cooper and SCANA were forced to expedite the closure of 10 units, totaling 1,282 megawatts. That’s enough power for 641,000 South Carolina homes that has been taken off the grid. It is time for the EPA to listen to Congress and the American people. We cannot afford more regulations, which drive up energy costs, destroy jobs, and stifle economic recovery.”
09.12.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following the statement after the House passed H.R. 2775, the No Subsidies Without Verification Act, a bill that challenges the Administration’s recent announcement to no longer verify each applicant when requesting assistance for exchange subsides. Congressman Wilson stated, “Obamacare is flawed, unworkable, and unaffordable. The President knows this fact, which is why he continues to skirt around the law when attempting to implement it. Today, a bipartisan group in the House acted to protect American taxpayers by requiring individuals to seek approval before receiving support for government healthcare. It is shameful that the Administration has chosen to rely on the honor system with the people’s money when Americans overwhelmingly have lost faith in the President’s ability to implement his law accurately. The passage of today’s bill is a step in the right direction to achieve House Republicans’ plan of repealing Obamacare in its entirety. It is my hope that the Senate acts immediately so that hardworking American taxpayers will not be forced to suffer massive fraud and abuse at the Administration’s expense."
09.11.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks this afternoon on the floor of the House of Representatives in recognition of the anniversary of 9/11 and the Benghazi terrorist attacks. “Mr. Speaker, twelve years ago, our nation was attacked by jihadists who sought to destroy our freedoms. Today, we remember the nearly 3,000 innocent Americans who lost their lives in New York, Washington, and Shanksville. We also pay tribute to those who have successfully fought in Afghanistan and Iraq to keep us safe by defeating terrorists overseas. “Last year, terrorists murdered Ambassador Chris Stevens along with three additional brave Americans at our consulate in Benghazi, Libya. Their efforts to promote democracy will never be forgotten. “We should recognize the war on terrorism is far from over. Conflict continues across the world. “In conclusion, God Bless Our Troops and we will never forget September 11th, 2001 and September 11th, 2012 at Benghazi in the Global War on Terrorism. “Todd Beamer was correct: ‘Let’s Roll.’” *To view the video, click here.
09.10.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of Subcommittee on Military Personnel, issued the following statement after today's House Armed Services Committee hearing on Syria. Witnesses included Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey. Wilson stated, “Today, I had the opportunity to question the Administration for the second time in a week about potential military action against Syria. It is sadly clear that the President’s campaign is amateur in nature and lacks a sound intervention plan. Not only will a strike place the United States and our allies in the Middle East at greater risk, the President’s confused approach does not prevent Assad’s chemical weapons from falling into terrorists’ hands. I think it is irresponsible to place American service members at risk with without a comprehensive strategy and clearly defined objective.” *To view the entire Q&A session, click here. Transcript: Congressman Wilson: “…There are always unforeseen circumstances such as if Assad were to lose power, wouldn't it be necessary to place troops there to secure the chemical weapons?” Secretary Hagel: “…We are working and have been working closely with all Syria’s neighbors on this particular issue: Turkey, Jordan, Iraq, Israel, Saudi Arabia. Yes, we are always looking at those options as to how we would respond, what we would do, what we would have to do.” Secretary Kerry: “Congressman, could I add to that that this is specifically geared not to raise the risk of losing control over those...” Congressman Wilson: “…With so many different competing groups, and we know al Qaeda is involved, I don't see how it could be guaranteed there wouldn't be a real potential for international terrorists to achieve chemical weapons.”
09.04.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, issued the following statement after questioning Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey at the House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing on a potential military strike against Syria. Congressman Wilson stated, “Today’s hearing confirms my belief that the United States must not engage in military action against Syria. The President’s failed foreign policy over the last four and a half years has allowed Syrian Dictator Bashar al-Assad to engage in horrific acts of violence against his own people. The White House identified on April 25th that Syria had used chemical weapons, crossing the President’s “red line.” This debate should have occurred upon immediate detection, as opposed to now when intervention could potentially create greater consequences. Secretary Kerry, Secretary Hagel, and General Dempsey’s inability to provide specific answers to direct questions conveys that authorizing a military strike will place American families at greater risk and increase instability which threatens our allies of Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and Iraq.”
08.20.2013	On Monday, August 26, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual district Bus Tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his efforts in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Caroline Delleney with Congressman Wilson’s office at (202) 812-1426. Monday, August 26th – Lexington County 8:00 AM Meeting with Lexington Chamber of Commerce – 311 West Main Street, West Columbia 9:30 AM Tour of Lexington Technology Center – 2421 Augusta Highway, Lexington 11:00 AM Tour of Fisher Tank Company – 104 Fisher Tank Drive, Leesville 12:15 PM Lunch at Shealy’s BBQ – 340 E Columbia Ave., Batesburg 2:00 PM Chapin Chamber of Commerce Drop-In – 302 Columbia Avenue, Chapin 3:15 PM Tour of General Information Services – 917 Chapin Road, Chapin 4:30 PM Irmo Chamber of Commerce Drop-In – 1248 Lake Murray Blvd., Irmo Tuesday, August 27th – Richland County 8:00 AM Forest Acres Town Hall Meet and Greet – 5205 North Trenholm Road, Forest Acres 9:30 AM Tour of Blue Cross Blue Shield –2501 Faraway Drive, Columbia 11:00 AM Tour of Patterson Fan Company – 1120 Northpoint Blvd., Blythewood 12:30 PM Tour of the University of South Carolina School of Medicine – 6311 Garners Ferry Road, Columbia 2:00 PM Tour of Palmetto Health Baptist Hospital (Parkridge Campus) – 190 Parkridge Drive, Columbia 3:30PM Tour of Providence Hospital Northeast – 120 Gateway Corporate Blvd., Columbia Wednesday, August 28th – Aiken County 7:15 AM North Augusta AM Connections – North Augusta Community Center - 495 Brookside Avenue, North Augusta 9:15 AM Visit to Hammond Hill Elementary School – 901 W Woodlawn Avenue, North Augusta 10:30 AM Tour of Ameresco at Savannah River Site – Burma Road Building 705—4G, Aiken 12:00 PM Meeting with Economic Development Partnership – 301 Gateway Drive, Aiken 12:30 PM Visit to the Aiken County Applied Research Center – 301 Gateway Drive, Aiken 1:45 PM Tour of BK All American Company, LLC – 103 Main Street, North New Ellenton 3:00 PM Meeting with the City of Aiken – 135 Laurens Street NW, Aiken 3:45 PM Tour of the Aiken Center for Active Seniors and Hitchcock Healthcare – 690 Medical Park Drive, Aiken Thursday, August 29th – Barnwell and Orangeburg Counties 8:00 AM Business Roundtable hosted by the Barnwell Chamber of Commerce – 8273 Marlboro Avenue, Barnwell 9:30 AM Tour of Dayco Products, LLC – 4445 Barnwell Road, Williston 10:45 AM Tour of Carroll’s Welding and Fabrication – 3305 Hilda Road, Blackville 11:45 AM Lunch at Miller’s Bread Basket – 483 Main Street, Blackville 1:00 PM Meeting with Mayor Mike Miller of Wagener, Mayor Thomas Williams of Perry, and Mayor Bob Salley of Salley – 111 Railroad Avenue West, Wagener 2:30 PM Meeting with Mayor Earl Jeffcoat of North – 9305 North Road, North
08.15.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following statement in response to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel’s executive actions on sexual assault prevention: "Protecting our brave men and women from sexual assaults and holding those accountable who are convicted of committing these shameful crimes must be made a priority within the Department of Defense. I am pleased that Secretary Hagel is taking additional action to prevent sexual assault and enhance protections for victims of sexual assault in the military. Some of the executive actions that Secretary Hagel has chosen to pursue were included in the House passed version of the FY14 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and I find it encouraging that DOD is choosing to enact these measures on their own volition. It is my hope that DOD will keep Congress informed of the effectiveness of these measures in a timely manner so that DOD and Congress can work together to solve this unacceptable problem within our military," Congressman Wilson said.
08.13.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals’ ruling, which ordered the Yucca Mountain licensing application to proceed. "The Obama Administration has developed a habit of disregarding the law. Today's decision by the DC Circuit Court of Appeals is a tremendous victory for our nation as it holds the President accountable for abiding by the decision Congress made to designate Yucca Mountain as the nation's nuclear waste repository. South Carolina rate-payers have invested over $1.3 billion dollars into Yucca Mountain over the last thirty years and we deserve to see this project completed," Congressman Wilson said.
08.05.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 2907, the National Guardsmen and Reservists Parity for Patriots Act last Thursday. This bill amends the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (FY08 NDAA) to repair a loophole in eligibility for National Guard and Reserve members to receive credit towards early retirement by including any active duty service with the exception of active duty training since September 11th, 2001. Current eligibility only applies to service following the enactment of the FY08 NDAA on January 28, 2008. “Since our nation was attacked on September 11, 2001, the National Guard and Reserve have played an integral role in overseas contingency operations and in other emergency situations. Whether these brave men and women were putting their lives on the line during heavy combat in Iraq and Afghanistan or tending to devastating natural disasters at home like Hurricane Katrina, each of our Guard and Reserve members deserve to receive appropriate recognition for their active duty service. As a 31-year veteran of the South Carolina Army National Guard, I will continue to advocate for all of our Armed Forces and ensure that Congress honors the tremendous sacrifices made by each of our military personnel and their families,” Congressman Wilson said. *A copy of the bill can be found here.
08.02.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2009, the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act. This bill bars the IRS from implementing or enforcing any component of Obamacare. Wilson stated, “The scandal-ridden Internal Revenue Service has proven itself to be incapable of operating impartially and fairly. Subjecting every American family to possible abuse and fraud by this bureaucratic agency is irresponsible. If we can’t trust the IRS to complete the simple task of administering tax status to groups, we certainly can not trust them to manage our healthcare. “House Republicans are committed to preserving the doctor-patient relationship by dismantling and repealing the government healthcare takeover law. The federal government has no business meddling in our private and personal healthcare decisions. As the Administration carries on with Obamacare’s implementation, they are ignoring the will of the American people. As a proud cosponsor of this bill, I hope that the Senate will consider our efforts to protect every American family from potential mistreatment by the IRS."
08.01.2013	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC), Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing on Department of Defense’s Challenges in Accounting for Missing Persons from Past Conflicts. Witness testimony can be found linked below and on the Committee Repository as prepared for delivery; the committee is no longer providing paper copies of witness testimony. Additionally, a live video feed of the hearing can be seen on the Committee website. "The hearing will come to order. Everyone is welcome to the subcommittee on Military Personnel on the topic of The Department of Defense’s Challenges in Accounting for Missing Persons from Past Conflicts. Today the Subcommittee will continue its oversight on the important issue of POW/MIA recovery. Last August, Congresswoman Bordallo and I had the opportunity to visit the Joint Personnel Accounting Command’s (JPAC) headquarters as well as a field recovery team on the side of a mountain in Vietnam. I was extremely impressed with the professionalism and work ethic of our service men and women as they worked in extreme heat and dangerous conditions to recover the remains of missing persons from an airplane crash site. There are many dedicated military people involved with this effort. The Joint U.S.-Vietnamese team was inspiring for its determination of recovery of remains. They share the desire for the fullest possible accounting with the many family members of those who are still missing. We, as a Nation, owe the proper emphasis, resources and priority of effort to account for our missing persons from past conflicts and to bring closure to their family members. "That is why this subcommittee, then chaired by Rep. Susan Davis, in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 required the Secretary of Defense to increase significantly the Department’s capability and capacity to account for missing persons, with the objective that the POW/MIA accounting community could identify at least 200 missing persons annually beginning in fiscal year 2015. "In May 2012, after three years of little apparent progress by the Department of Defense toward achieving the 2010 mandate, this committee directed a General Accountability Office review. There have been approximately nine studies over the past decade on ways to improve the accounting community’s effort, to include a recent internal review of JPAC’s procedures conducted by Dr. Paul Cole who is employed as a fellow at JPAC. "Our goal today is to better understand the ability of the POW/MIA accounting community to meet the requirements of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, and to help the Department build the capability and capacity to identify 200 missing persons per year by Fiscal Year 2015. "I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses: Dr. Paul M. Cole ORISE Fellow, Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), Central Identification Laboratory • Witness Truth in Testimony [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Ms. Brenda S. Farrell Director, Defense Capabilities and Management, U.S. Government Accountability Office • Witness Statement [PDF] Witness Biography [PDF]"
08.01.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after introducing H. Con. Res. 48 to commemorate the 46th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem and to begin the process of relocating the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. “The nation of Israel is a true testament to the success of democracy. The United States has unwaveringly stood by our Greatest Ally in the Middle East throughout her history. As violence and tension in the region escalates, it is critical that our nation continue to support our trusted ally and stand with her people. “Rich in history and importance, Jews, Christians, and Muslims alike hold high esteem for the city of Jerusalem. We must take the necessary steps to respect the rightful sovereignty of Israel and preserve one of the world’s oldest cities. In order to fulfill this goal, I urge President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry to relocate the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. The spread of democracy in the Middle East will not prevail without a free and prosperous Israel.” *A copy of H. Con. Res. 48 can be found here. The resolution has 8 original cosponsors.
07.24.2013	Rep. Joe Wilson (SC), Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery at a hearing on Women in Service Reviews. Witness testimony can be found linked below and on the Committee Repository as prepared for delivery; the committee is no longer providing paper copies of witness testimony. Additionally, a live video feed of the hearing can be seen on the Committee website. "The hearing will come to order. The Subcommittee today will focus on the implementation plans that the military services and the United States Special Operation Command have developed to expand the assignment opportunities for women. "Over the last decade women have served exceptionally in many positions in combat. The decision by the Secretary of Defense in January to rescind the direct ground combat exclusion policy has established a new dynamic – all positions are open to women, unless the military services are granted an exception to policy. "In June, the Secretary of Defense released those implementation plans, which envision full implementation of the new policy by January 2016. Between now and then, the military services and US Special Operation Command will develop the substantive basis for implementation. As is clear from the plans, implementation of the new policy will be incremental, with previously closed units and occupational specialties being opened as gender-neutral performance standards are validated, other issues related to the integration are addressed and Congressional notifications are completed. Implementation of decisions about Army and Marine Corps direct ground combat units (infantry, armor, artillery), as well as specialties controlled by the Special Operations Command, will take place later in the process. "The Secretary of Defense has made clear that standards will not be lowered, and that they will be applied on a gender-neutral basis. That’s a key commitment to the success of inclusion efforts. Our witnesses today are: Witnesses Ms. Juliet Beyler Director, Officer and Enlisted Personnel Management, Department of Defense • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Lieutenant General Howard B. Bromberg Deputy Chief of Staff G-1, United States Army • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Brigadier General Gina M. Grosso Director of Force Managment Policy, Deputy Chief of Statt for Manpower, Personnel and Services, United States Air Force • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Lieutenant General Robert E. Milstead Jr. Deputy Commandant, Manpower and Reserve Affairs, United States Marine Corps • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Major General Bennet S. Sacolick Director of Force Management and Development, United States Special Operations Command • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Rear Admiral Barbara Sweredoski Reserve Deputy, Military Personnel Plans and Policy, United States Navy • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] "I ask unanimous consent that Representatives Dr. John Fleming and Loretta Sanchez be allowed to ask questions during the hearing. Further I ask unanimous consent that the following statements be entered into the record: The written statement of Women in International Security [PDF], and, The written statement of Elaine Donnelly, President, Center for Military Readiness [PDF]"
07.24.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s economic speech at Knox College earlier this afternoon. Congressman Joe Wilson stated, “Every single issue President Obama mentioned today, House Republicans have passed legislation to address: student loans costs, accessible healthcare, maintaining a strong national defense, and job creation. But once again, the President ignores House efforts and blames others for his failures. “Pointing fingers and empty promises are not the leadership qualities we need to create jobs. More failed economic stimulus spending, higher taxes, and increased government regulations will destroy jobs. Working with the proposals House Republicans have already put on the table for the past two and a half years will create jobs, protect every American family, and get our economy moving again. “House Republicans have passed numerous pieces of legislation aimed at job creation that the Senate refused to consider and the President threatened to veto. The American people deserve better than this type of unproductivity. It’s time for the President to get on board and help put our weak economy back on the path to prosperity.” *To view the House GOP Plan for Economic Growth and Jobs, click here.
07.19.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5, the Student Success Act Congressman Wilson stated, “Access to quality education paves the path for tremendous opportunity, success, and fulfillment for America’s children. The status-quo practices dictated by government bureaucrats are ineffective and must be reformed. “South Carolina’s Second Congressional District has a wide range of diverse school districts with children from all backgrounds of life. The only way to adequately prepare our children for future success is to empower those who know what’s best for them. Our locally elected school boards, hardworking teachers, school administrators, and active parents should be given the opportunity to develop a working educational plan that suits the needs of every child. “As a husband to a retired schoolteacher and a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, I am very pleased the House passed this comprehensive piece of legislation. By putting faith back in the hands of our local educators and parents, we are giving every child the quality education he or she deserves." *To view a one-minute speech Congressman Joe Wilson delivered earlier today in support of the legislation on the House floor, click here.
07.17.2013	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Ranking Member Susan Davis (CA-53) released the following joint statement after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released its report addressing Prisoner-of-War/Missing-In-Action (POW/MIA) efforts taken by the Department of Defense. Chairman Wilson and Ranking Member Davis have been actively engaged in addressing the uncertainty facing thousands of families over the unaccounted remains of their loved ones who were killed in action or died in captivity while serving our country. After hearing increased and growing concerns from families, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel included a provision in the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act requesting this report. "In 2009, Congress passed a simple mandate. The Pentagon must implement a comprehensive, coordinated, integrated and fully resourced program 'to account for the nation’s prisoners of war and missing persons.' Since then, as the General Accounting Office report so clearly points out, senior Defense Department officials have failed to both execute this directive and to prevent fragmentation of the accounting effort. As a result, the nation is no closer today to achieving the minimal goal of accounting for just 200 missing persons annually than it was four years ago. "Presidents and senior defense officials have repeatedly said that accounting for our POWs and MIAs is a national priority. The current Pentagon leadership has had ample time to get this moral imperative right. It is time for them to exercise firm, steady judgment and innovation to make the priority of accounting for 200 prisoners of war a year a reality. We remain committed to helping them achieve that goal," said Chairman Wilson and Ranking Member Davis.
07.17.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2667, the Authority for Mandate Delay Act, and H.R. 2668, the Fairness for American Families Act. These pieces of legislation delay the implementation of Obamacare's employer and individual mandates. “Obamacare is an unworkable, unaffordable law that must be repealed in order to preserve the doctor-patient relationship and allow American families to make their own healthcare decisions. When the President decided to delay implementation of the employer mandate, he acknowledged that his healthcare law would destroy jobs. “Protecting American families from rising healthcare premiums and lower wages due to higher taxes on small businesses is necessary for a more secure future for young people. This is why House Republicans were successful in voting to delay both the employer and individual mandates found in the government healthcare takeover bill. “Labor unions, big government organizations, and former supporters of the law are now acknowledging what House Republicans have been saying for years - Obamacare is a train-wreck. Unfortunately, the President and leaders of the liberal-controlled Senate refuse to acknowledge our efforts to repeal, dismantle, or defund the law. “Let’s hope this time is different. Let’s hope that the Senate will side with the American people and join House Republicans in delaying the individual and employer mandates. If the President believes his healthcare law to be too overwhelming for Big Business, it is certainly too intrusive for American families,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
07.11.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2609, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2014. Wilson stated, “With the passage of last night’s bill, families across South Carolina’s Second Congressional District can rest assured that our national security and energy production remains intact. The House-passed bill invests in an all-of-the-above energy plan and maintains a strong national defense while making necessary cuts to achieve fiscal responsibility. “In recent months, the Mixed Oxide (MOX) facility at the Savannah River Site has been under attack by the President and his Administration. Thankfully, with the support of colleagues in South Carolina, we were able to defend MOX and secure the valuable resources necessary for the facility’s progress. As one of the Savannah River Site’s (SRS) main proponents, I am committed to fighting for all operations as they directly provide for our national security. I am satisfied with the initial resources allocated to SRS in this bill and look forward to working with Senator Graham and Senator Scott to bring even more necessary resources to the Site as we proceed with the appropriations process.”
06.27.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1613, The Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreements Authorization. Wilson stated, “South Carolinians should be grateful for the success of my fellow colleague, Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03), upon the passage of his legislation today. The Obama Administration tends to drag its feet and place far too many restrictions on our capabilities when it comes to exploring all-of –the-above energy options. With the passage of today’s bill, the United States and Mexico can begin to act on our previous agreement and develop oil and natural gas resources in the Gulf of Mexico. Not only will this legislation help us achieve energy independence, it will also create American jobs that will obtain American-made energy. As a cosponsor of this bill, I hope the Senate takes action immediately so that we can help our economy grow and protect our energy resources.”
06.19.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following in response to President Obama’s remarks in Berlin, Germany where he called on Russia to enter into bilateral negotiations to reduce our strategic nuclear warhead arsenal by one-third beyond the levels set by the New START treaty. “The President talks out of both sides of his mouth, offering empty ‘feel good’ promises. His appeal to further deplete our nuclear weapons stockpile in response to equal cooperation with Russia is not surprising. However, the fact that he calls for new measures when he has actively tried to stall efforts to meet our current international obligations is misleading. “The Mixed Oxide (MOX) facility located at the Savannah River Site in Aiken, SC, will play a tremendous role in helping the United States honor our current international nonproliferation agreements. By disposing of weapons grade plutonium, this one-of-a-kind project, which is over 60% completed, will play a vital role in turning bombs into energy. Unfortunately, the President has recently attacked the MOX facility in his budget by reducing its funding nearly 50%, paralyzing the program and delaying it’s progress. “I encourage the President to begin practicing what he preaches. If he does, in fact, want the United States to continue cleaning up our nuclear weapons supply, he must support the MOX project.”
06.18.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1797, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. Wilson stated, “In recent weeks, we have watched in horror as details emerged of Dr. Kermit Gosnell’s criminal procedures that resulted in the murder of children and endangerment of women. By passing today’s legislation, House Republicans are recognizing the reality of these heinous crimes and ensuring that our women and children are not exposed to this kind of danger again. The set of laws that govern this Nation, allowing every American to exercise our freedoms, are in place to protect us and must be extended to cover the innocent unborn. As a proud original co-sponsor of this bill and an individual who believes that life begins at conception, it is my hope that the Senate will continue our efforts and pass this legislation to put an end to the threats late-term abortions impose on our unborn children and mothers.
06.14.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1960, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2014. This bill authorizes and prioritizes funding for the Department of Defense (DOD) and other select national security programs within the Department of Energy (DOE) for FY2014. “I am grateful that because of House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon’s tremendous leadership, a bipartisan group in the House has passed the National Defense Authorization Act for the 52nd consecutive year in a row. “Residents of South Carolina’s Second Congressional District will directly benefit from the passage of this legislation. When President Obama proposed sequestration, he immediately placed our national security at risk. Based upon his actions, it is obvious that the Administration continuously chooses to jeopardize the safety of American families in order to expand the size and authority of the federal government at the expense of our military and national security. Rest assured, today’s bill will provide for our military families at Fort Jackson, our veterans living in every community, and the dedicated workforce who is carrying out environmental cleanup missions related to national security at the Savannah River Site. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee on Military Personnel, I am very pleased that the House defeated the proposal to increase TRICARE enrollment fees beyond their jurisdiction. We also successfully rejected the Administration’s proposal to decrease the military pay raise from the current standard required by law. Our brave men and women in uniform, their families, and our veterans have dedicated their lives to protect and defend our freedoms They deserve nothing less than for us to honor the previous commitments that have been made to them. “Additionally, the House passed National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2014 makes tremendous progress in tackling sexual assault and misconduct within the military with prevention, investigation, prosecution, and punishment. These types of abuses occur far too often and we must strengthen the system to protect those who protect us,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
06.06.2013	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee passed the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (FY14 NDAA): “The House Armed Services Committee has made substantial progress this year in authorizing the appropriate resources necessary to maintain and defend our national security. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon has shown tremendous leadership through the entire process of adopting the 52nd consecutive National Defense Authorization Act. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I am humbled by the opportunity to advocate on behalf of our brave men and women in uniform, military families, and our veterans, who have dedicated their lives to keep us safe. They deserve nothing less than our unwavering gratitude and support.” List of provisions Congressman Wilson has helped secure in the FY14 NDAA: Sexual Assault and Misconduct Provisions – As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I have worked with Chairman Buck McKeon to combat sexual assault and misconduct in the military by promoting reporting, prosecution, and preventing retaliation. The committee-passed FY14 NDAA includes measures to make additional progress on this issue. Sexual assault will not be tolerated and has no place in our Armed Forces. Our brave men and women risk their lives to protect us and we must do everything within our power to protect them from such heinous crimes. Necessary Medical Evaluations – Far too often our service members suffer from undiagnosed illnesses and are discharged from the military without a medical evaluation. By closing a loophole within the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), our brave men and women who are injured in combat will receive the proper care and treatment they have earned and deserve. Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) are conditions affecting many of our service members after twelve years of combat operations. It is our obligation to provide the appropriate care for those service members who are suffering on our behalf, instead of terminating their service without a thorough examination. Secures Future for MOX – The MOX (Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication) Facility located at the Savannah River Site in Aiken, South Carolina, is a necessary project that allows the United States to honor our nuclear nonproliferation agreement with Russia. The facility, which is over 60% completed, has recently come under attack as the Administration has paralyzed and delayed its progress. I am thankful that the FY14 NDAA calls for a study to find ways to reduce costs through efficiencies and generate revenue returns on the facility’s investments. This measure will protect our national security and honor our international obligations in a fiscally conservative manner. Honors Fallen Military Heroes –The victims of the Fort Hood, Texas, and Little Rock (Arkansas) Recruiting Station shootings by terrorists in 2009 deserve our honor and recognition. Just as those who lost their lives in the September 11th terrorist attacks in 2001, with the adoption of my amendment, these brave men and women will also be awarded the Purple Heart. Environmental Cleanup – The President’s FY14 budget proposal reduced necessary resources to provide for nuclear environmental cleanup at the Savannah River Site. In working with committee leadership, I was able to secure program funding, which will allow the Site to complete its vital national security missions while maintaining a dedicated workforce. Compensation Obligations – Current law provides that the members of our Armed Services will receive a 1.8% pay raise. By choosing not to adopt the proposal to lower the pay raise to 1%, the House Armed Services Committee is choosing to keep the faith with those who serve. Sequestration originated in the White House and has created a dangerous fiscal environment, but it is unconscionable to ask for cost-savings on the backs of our brave men and women who continue to go into harm's way. Protects TRICARE - By refusing to grant the Administration the legislative authority to raise TRICARE enrollment fees beyond what is currently allowed, the House Armed Services Committee is ensuring the commitments that have previously been made to our Armed Forces will be fulfilled. As Chairman, I remain committed to ensuring that our service members and retirees have the highest quality medical care available.
05.22.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act: Wilson stated, “Today, a bipartisan majority in the House decided to take matters into our own hands and approve the Keystone XL Pipeline application. This project will create well over 100,000 jobs, invest billions in our economy, and promote America’s energy independence. On numerous occasions, the President has claimed to support an “all-of-the-above” energy plan. However, for over 1,700 days, the Administration has held the Keystone XL Pipeline application hostage. “Lower prices at the pump, confidence in our abilities to produce energy resources, and the creation of new jobs will significantly impact communities all across our great nation. In South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, Michelin Tire Corporation in Lexington produces earthmover tires and MTU Detroit Diesel in Graniteville manufactures engines that are used in Alberta, Canada, for oil sand recovery. Both these companies have potential to benefit from Keystone’s production. “It is my hope that the Senate will join us in our efforts to approve the permit of the Keystone XL Pipeline in a timely fashion. Our economy should not be forced to suffer due to the Administration’s refusal to act. Approval of this permit will create the necessary jobs our economy so desperately needs, not the President’s hot air and empty promises."
05.16.2013	Congressman Andy Barr (KY) joined Congressman John Fleming, MD (LA) and Congressman Joe Wilson (SC) today to announce the introduction of H.R. 2010, the Live by the Laws You Write Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives. This simple, two-page legislation aims to close Obamacare’s congressional loophole and ensure that Congress is not exempt from the laws that it writes. “While full repeal of Obamacare remains the only solution for this flawed law, we can at least make sure that Congress lives by the laws it writes,” said Congressman Andy Barr. “It is wrong for the people who wrote Obamcare to have exempted themselves, so today we are fixing that to ensure that there is no special treatment for the people who wrote this legislation.” “When Obamacare was being rammed through the House of Representatives, I called on Congress to agree that we would all live under the same kind of health care that was being imposed on the American people,” said Congressman John Fleming, M.D. “Somehow exemptions for a select few in Congress were tucked in the bill. Until we are able to exempt every American from Obamacare by repealing it, no one in Congress should be allowed to escape its onerous burdens.” “Former Speaker Nancy Pelosi was absolutely correct when she told the American people that they would find out exactly what was in Obamacare after it became law,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “Unfortunately, we now know that leadership and committee staff were carefully exempted out of it. Political games such as these are a disservice to the Body we proudly serve. If the American people will be forced to suffer under Obamacare, the individuals responsible for writing the legislation must abide by it as well.” The Live by the Laws You Write Act would amend the definition of “congressional staff” in Section 1312 of the Affordable Care Act to make sure that it does not continue to exempt committee staff and leadership staff in the House and Senate. A PDF of the H.R. 2010, the Live by the Laws You Write Act can be found here.
05.16.2013	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following speech on the House Floor today in support H.R. 45, legislation that repeals the President's government takeover healthcare bill. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 229-195: “Thank you Ma’am Speaker and thank you Dr. Roe for yielding. Today, House Republicans will vote for the 37th time to repeal or defund Obamacare. Prior to its deal-making passage in 2010, the National Federation of Independent Business, America’s largest organization of small businesses, warned that implementation of the government healthcare takeover would destroy 1.6 millions jobs due to mandates and tax increases, crippling small businesses. To make matters worse, at a time when our nation is experiencing record unemployment, President Obama has called on the IRS, an agency currently in the midst of scandal, to create thousands of new agents to enforce Obamacare. Based on the recent reports, it is clear that the IRS should not be expanded to include the authorization of controlling healthcare for the American people. Today’s vote will give us an opportunity to repeal a crucial job-destroying law that in turn will provide small businesses the certainty they need to begin hiring again and put American families back to work. As a proud cosponsor, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the Aisle to vote in favor or this bill,” Congressman Wilson stated. The speech can be found here: https://bit.ly/16CHrap
05.15.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Congress approved the reprogram request submitted by the Savannah River Site: Wilson stated, “The Congressional approval of SRS’s reprogramming request is a tremendous victory for the people of Aiken County, Barnwell County, the Palmetto State, and our Nation. Throughout this entire process, I served as SRS’s positive proponent by encouraging the appropriate government channels to take immediate action. However, the true champions of this success are the dedicated and hard working people of Aiken County, who demanded that the government do its job and approve this request. “The fact that the Administration delayed the approval process for over a month and a half shows that defending our national security is not one of the President’s top priorities. As a Member of Congress who serves on one of the four Committees given jurisdiction over the approval process, I commend the House and Senate for taking action quickly to ensure that our nation’s nuclear facilities are capable of completing vital missions with an appropriate workforce. The President’s Office of Management and Budget must do its job and begin implementation by reallocating the previously appropriated resources as soon as possible. Our national security depends on it.”
05.14.2013	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement regarding allegations of criminal behavior against a sexual assault prevention and response coordinator stationed at Fort Hood: Wilson stated, “The recent report out of Fort Hood is inexcusable. Actions such as these will not be tolerated and have no place in our Armed Forces. Sexual abuse of any nature is a demoralizing challenge facing our brave men and women in uniform. The military must ensure the personnel they select to oversee sexual assault prevention efforts are of the highest moral character. Recently, some of these personnel decisions have been called into question by the despicable acts of a few. I encourage Secretary Chuck Hagel to review the screening processes for these positions so that only the highest quality service members are given the opportunity to serve in such leadership roles. Additionally, members of our military who condone these crimes both actively and passively should be held responsible, appropriately prosecuted, and promptly removed from our Armed Forces. “For the past several years, I have worked diligently with House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon to make substantial progress on this issue. Based on recent events, it is obvious that more progress must be made to better protect our service members. I will continue to work closely with the House Armed Services Committee by exercising oversight so that we can get to the bottom of this disgusting incident. We must do everything in our power to prevent instances like these from occurring again.”
05.08.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1406, the Working Families Flexibility Act of 2013. This piece of legislation removes an outdated federal law that prevents private-sector employers from offering employees the option to accrue paid time off or “comp time” for working overtime hours: Wilson stated, “The challenges facing our working mothers and fathers to provide for their families are substantial. Our current workforce restrictions, imposed by the federal government on the private sector, are outdated. Washington has developed a habit of restricting an employee’s ability to autonomously determine what is best for their families. “If today’s legislation becomes law, American families’ lives will be enhanced as work environments will become more flexible to provide balance between job and family. By taking control away from the federal government, Congress is placing the power back where it belongs: Into the hands of the American workforce. As a proud cosponsor of this bill, it is my hope that the Senate will take immediate action to ensure that our mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers can appropriately make their own decisions regarding overtime-working hours.”
05.07.2013	Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel issued the following statement after receiving the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2012 Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military: “The recent findings from the Department of Defense's Fiscal Year 2012 Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military are extremely disheartening. I am outraged to see that the estimated number of sexual assaults and misconduct in the military have increased from 19,300 in FY10 to 26,000 in FY12. Sexual assault and misconduct in the military must be eliminated entirely. It is clear that this is an issue that the Military and Congress must continue to work together to solve. The current status is simply unacceptable. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I have worked with House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon and the Department of Defense to combat sexual assault and misconduct by promoting reporting, prosecution, and preventing retaliation. Based upon these new estimates, more progress must be made to better protect all of the brave women and men who selflessly serve on behalf of our nation. In the future, I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to address this very important issue.”
05.04.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent the following statement after learning that the Savannah River Site's reprogramming request had been received by both Houses of Congress: Wilson stated, "This morning's announcement that the Savannah River Site's reprogramming request has been submitted to Congress is proof that concerned citizens' voices have been heard. Yesterday's town hall discussion was attended by hundreds of constituents and has proven to be beneficial. As promised, I will remain committed to fulfilling my obligations and work with House and Senate Members to ensure the request is approved expediently. SRS must be given the resources needed to complete its vital missions."
05.01.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) along with Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03) and Congressman Tom Rice (SC-07) sent a letter to the President’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Sylvia Burwell encouraging immediate action on the Savannah River Site’s reprogramming request. This is the second written appeal Congressman Wilson has made to OMB on behalf of the Savannah River Site’s request to transfer previously appropriated funds to different accounts. Once approved, the Site will revert back to normal operations with a full dedicated workforce in tact. To find a copy of the letter, please click here.
04.30.2013	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced plans to hold a town hall meeting in Aiken to address the recent concerns of furloughs due to sequestration at the Savannah River Site: Friday, May 3, 2013 10-11AM USC-Aiken’s Convocation Center 375 Robert M. Bell Parkway Aiken, SC 29801 Wilson stated, "From day one, I have been opposed to sequestration because I knew the disastrous effects it would have on our economy and our national security. The recent budget shortfalls that are forcing furloughs at the Savannah River Site are a direct result of inaction by the President and his Office of Management and Budget. For well over a month, I have been proactive on behalf of my constituents to encourage the quick consideration of the reprogramming request. Unfortunately, due to inaction, thousands of jobs are at risk of furlough at the Savannah River Site and vital national security missions have been placed on the backburner. As we inch closer to its full implementation, it is my responsibility as a Member of Congress to do my best to advocate for those who may be affected by the President’s sequester. As a result, I have invited constituents to attend a town hall meeting where we will provide a brief overview of current efforts being taken to combat the furloughs and provide information to the SRS community about what can be done to protect the Site’s vital mission.”
04.26.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed a bill to reprogram or transfer funds within the FAA budget to address the air traffic control furloughs created under sequestration. Wilson stated, “I find it very unfortunate that millions of American families are experiencing flight delays and travel difficulties due to furloughs imposed by the President’s sequester. However, this bill does nothing to address the future catastrophic furloughs my constituents are facing at the Savannah River Site. Today’s legislation is a simple political ploy to try and divert the negative attention the Administration has faced this week by angry travelers. “The Administration has refused multiple times to respond to the reprogramming request I have submitted on behalf of the people I am grateful to represent. As a result, I did not buy into their political games by supporting a measure that reprograms funds for an inconvenience the President has created."
04.25.2013	WHAT: In an effort to better connect the veterans living in South Carolina's Second Congressional District with the resources available to them, Congressman Joe Wilson will be hosting a Veterans Fair. WHO: Congressman Joe Wilson, veterans' organizations, government agency representatives, local employers, and various other local organizations such as: Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, SC National Guard, etc. WHEN: Wednesday, May 1, 2013 from 10am-2pm WHERE: West Columbia National Guard Armory, 3528 Platt Springs Road, West Columbia, SC 29170 WHY: Provide easy access and place employers, agencies that handle benefits, and veterans in one location. ADDITIONAL INFO: Please visit www.joewilson.house.gov/veteransfair for a updated list of participants. Resume writing assistance classes will be offered at 11am and 1pm. At noon, Congressman Wilson will present the Silver Star Award to Specialist Joseph N. Tate, a Vietnam veteran living in Elgin. Please feel free to share the Public Service Announcement with your audience.
04.24.2013	The House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel held a hearing today on the Status of implementation of the requirements of the VOW Act and the recommendations of the Presidential Veteran Employment Initiative Task Force for the DOD Transition Assistance Program -Goals, Plans, and Success (GPS). Chairman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery: Witness testimony can be found on the Committee Document Repository website or linked below. All witness testimony is as prepared for, and embargoed until delivery. "Today the Subcommittee will hear testimony on the Transition Assistance Program run by the Department of Defense, Department of Labor and Department of Veterans Affairs which assist transitioning military members as they prepare to separate from their military service to civilian life. Normally the military transitions just as many service-members back to society as they enlist every year; but during the next several years as the military reduces end strength, that number will grow, so it is critical that transitioning service-members are provided with the right information they need to make important decisions to support their future endeavors. "When Congress established Transition Assistance Program in 1991, the military was also undergoing a drawdown; but it was not conducted after more than 10 years of combat with men and women participating in multiple combat deployments. The high number of deployments and the high unemployment rate for post 9/11 veterans has generated several changes that affect the program. First, the VOW to Hire Heroes Act of 2011 requires all service-members who have been on active duty for more than 180 days to participate in the program, second, the Veterans Employment Initiative Task Force made recommendations to revamp and improve the existing program to ensure members were provided the information and services they needed, tailored to their post military initiatives. "Today we will hear from the witnesses about the status of implementation, the changes and improvements to Transition Assistance Program, and what mechanisms are available to indentify and share best practices, receive feedback from service-members and how does each agency define success. I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses: Witnesses Dr. Susan S. Kelly Deputy Director, Transition to Veterans’ Program Office, Department of Defense • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Mr. John K. Moran Deputy Assistant Secretary, Veteran’s Employment Training Service, Department of Labor • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Mr. Danny Pummill Director, Veterans Benefits Administration-Department of Defense Program Office, Department of Veterans Affairs • Witness Statement [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Support Documents Opening Statement of Chairman Wilson [PDF]
04.18.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in reaction to Tax Freedom Day, the day when the nation as a whole has earned enough money to fund its annual tax bill. Wilson stated, “It is shameful that American taxpayers must work 108 days in order to foot the bill for their annual tax obligation. Already this year, the federal government’s received revenues are up 12% in comparison to April 2012, and we anticipate a continuation of that trend throughout the remainder of the year. Although it is blatantly clear that we have a spending problem and not a revenue problem, the Presidential and Senate budgets propose taking even more of taxpayers’ incomes to pay for more wasteful spending. “We must make our broken tax code more fair and simple to allow American families and small businesses keep more of their hard earned money, which will increase wages and help create a stronger economy. House Republicans continually advocate for this cause. It’s past the time for the President and Senate leadership to get on board.”
04.17.2013	In this morning’s House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) questioned Secretary of State John Kerry on the Administration’s position for the MOX project at the Savannah River Site in Aiken. Wilson also asked Secretary Kerry about future trade opportunities that have led to companies like Michelin, BMW, and Boeing’s international success. To view the video, please click here.
04.15.2013	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after receiving notification from Department of Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel that the Department will abandon the medal and award it as a distinguishing device: Wilson stated, “I am very pleased with Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel’s recent decision to abandon the Department’s previous position of disregarding precedence for the Distinguished Warfare Medal. Service members who operate remotely piloted aircraft or participate in cyber operations do deserve our praise; however, awarding them with a medal that takes precedence over a decoration earned in combat is a disservice to those who have put themselves in harms way to protect and defend our freedoms. This change is welcomed by millions of concerned veterans and I am proud that the Secretary sided with the best interests of our brave men and women in the Armed Services who have served in combat.”
04.12.2013	WHAT: In an effort to better connect the veterans living in South Carolina's Second Congressional District with the resources available to them, Congressman Joe Wilson will be hosting a Veterans Fair. WHO: Congressman Joe Wilson, veterans' organizations, government agency representatives, local employers, and various other local organizations such as: Social Security Administration, American Legion, Department of Veterans Affairs, SC National Guard, etc. WHEN: Monday, April 22, 2013 from 10AM-2PM WHERE: Aiken Technical College, Building 900 – 2276 Jefferson Davis Highway, Graniteville, SC 29829 WHY: Provide easy access and place employers, agencies that handle benefits, and veterans in one location. ADDITIONAL INFO: Please visit www.joewilson.house.gov/veteransfair for a updated list of participants. On May 1, 2013, Congressman Wilson will host an additional Veterans Fair in Columbia, SC. More details to come.
04.12.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after House passed H.R. 1120, the Preventing Greater Uncertainty in the Labor-Management Relations Act: Wilson stated, “The passage of today’s bill is a victory of our nation’s workforce. Last year’s unconstitutional Presidential appointments to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) further shows that it is not used to protect our nation’s workforce and creates uncertainty in the workplace. Instead, President Obama’s “Big Labor Bully” consistently abuses its authority by overregulating and restricting right-to-work states’ ability to determine what practices best serve its workers and employers. Due to the current nature of the NLRB, Congress must take action to ensure that hardworking Americans are treated fairly and do not suffer future unreasonableness as a result of its dysfunction. As a proud original co-sponsor of this legislation, I am very pleased with its passage and encourage the Senate to take action immediately.”
04.10.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after President Obama released his FY2014 budget: Wilson stated, “As elected officials, we have the responsibility to support policies that provide for the well-being of the American people, both present and future generations. The President’s budget, which was released 65 days late, is disappointing, irresponsible, and falls short of addressing the challenges facing our nation. Higher taxes amounting to $1.1 trillion, nearly $1 trillion in new spending, and a net deficit reduction of less than $120 billion is not the successful path forward to a reviving economy. “The President has repeatedly called for a “balanced approach” to our spending problem, but he refuses to even entertain the idea of balancing our budget. The President has already received his tax increases, which destroys jobs. If he were serious about putting millions of Americans back to work and eliminating the economic uncertainty that is hindering job creation, the President would have suggested a pathway to a balanced budget. “As we move forward, I will continue to support measures that will rein in our out of control spending in order to protect the American people from an unsustainable debt. I encourage the President to join this effort.”
04.10.2013	The House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel held a hearing today on Mental Health Research. Chairman Joe Wilson (SC) made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery: Witness testimony can be found on the Committee Document Repository website or the HASC hearing page above. All witness testimony is as prepared for, and embargoed until delivery. "Today the Subcommittee will hear testimony on the research conducted by the Department of Defense and the military services to address deployment related psychological health needs of service members, particularly Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). "Before I begin, I’d like to thank Ranking Member Susan Davis from California for suggesting that we hold this hearing. I’d also like to recognize her leadership in this area both while she was the Chairwoman of the committee and now as the Ranking Member. "Today, we continue to address the signature wounds of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, PTSD and TBI. Our unwavering commitment is to our service members who are experiencing the challenge of multiple deployments. "Collectively the Department of Defense and, in particular, the leaders of the military health system who appear before us today, have done tremendous work responding to the mental health needs of our service members and their families. This has not been an easy task. I want to thank you for your efforts. "Since 2007, Congress has appropriated close to $1.5 billion for scientific and clinical research for the Department to improve the prevention, screening, diagnosis and treatment of PTSD and TBI. This investment has funded nearly one thousand studies in collaboration with Federal, academic and public-private partnerships. How have these studies increased the understanding of these conditions and how has this new knowledge translated into more effective methods of preventing and treating TBI and PTSD? "I am also anxious to hear about the future of these research efforts. How has sequestration and the Continuing Resolution affected both on-going studies and those that are yet to begin? "We must not lose the momentum we have gained through this research. We must continue to build on the hard work that’s already been done to fill any remaining gaps in scientific knowledge. I am committed to support DOD’s goal to prevent and treat these devastating conditions. Our service members deserve no less."
04.08.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement on the passing of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher: Wilson stated, “Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher will be remembered a heroine for resolve and victory during the Cold War. Her consistent friendship with President Ronald Reagan, Pope John Paul II, and Polish Solidarity union leader Lech Walesa provided for a more safe and free world. Prime Minister Thatcher’s passion for democracy led to the successful dissolution of the Soviet Union and the liberation of dozens of Soviet states from communism to free-market democracy. My thoughts and prayers are with the Thatcher family, the people of Great Britain, and the millions around the world who were touched by her desire to preserve freedom."
04.05.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the US Bureau of Labor Statistics released the latest jobs report for the month of March: “Once again, with the latest jobs report, the American people see that our economy is not improving the way we were promised. Nearly 12 million Americans are still unemployed, while millions more are underemployed or have given up the search for a job. Washington must change its policies to eliminate the economic uncertainty that is discouraging small businesses from hiring and hindering economic growth. “Next week, after more than two months in waiting, Congress will receive the President’s budget proposal. Instead of imposing higher taxes that destroy jobs and advocating for more government spending that increases our unsustainable national debt, the President should change course from his past budgets. Promoting energy independence through the advancement of the Keystone XL Pipeline, removing excessive red tape and regulations for small businesses, and lowing taxes for American families are several ways our economy will make a successful recovery. It is my hope that the President adopts these policies in his budget so that our nation will be placed back on the path to prosperity.”
03.21.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H. Con. Res. 25, the House Republican Budget. Wilson stated, “Today, House Republicans fulfilled our obligations and passed a responsible, balanced budget. With record unemployment of over eight percent for the past four years, nearly $17 trillion in national debt, and annual budget deficits of over $1 trillion dollars, Washington must change its policies to put our economy back on the path to prosperity. Balancing our budget, repealing Obamacare, and reforming our tax code will help small businesses create jobs and provide the economic certainty American families so desperately need. “House Republicans have completed the task asked of us: control our spending and promote job creation through a balanced budget. Unfortunately, the Senate’s plan never attempts to balance and kicks the can further down the road with more spending paid for with higher taxes on American families. Higher taxes destroy jobs and takes money out of our hard-earned paychecks. Instead of ignoring our spending problem, the Senate must change course and find ways to give the American people what they deserve – a balanced budget.”
03.15.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 803, the Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act. Wilson stated, “Since 2012, President Obama has encouraged House Republicans to work with him to help make our federal workforce programs more beneficial for American workers. With the passage of the SKILLS Act, House Republicans have done exactly what has been asked of us. Due to an abundance of regulations and restrictions, our government training programs are duplicative and fail to adequately train our nation’s workforce. With over 12 million unemployed Americans searching for a job, we must remove government barriers to help these individuals receive the training necessary to compete. By making this system more effective, millions of hardworking Americans will be able to use the skill sets they have learned to seek employment. It is my hope that the Senate and President will begin to practice what they preach, and consider our legislation which will help put Americans back to work.”
03.13.2013	The House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel held a hearing today on the Impact of the Continuing Resolution, Sequestration, and Declining Operations and Maintenance Budgets on Military Personnel and Family Related Programs. Chairman Joe Wilson (SC) made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery: Witness testimony can be found on the Committee Document Repository website as well as linked below. All witness testimony is as prepared for, and embargoed until delivery. "The hearing will come to order. The Subcommittee today will once again focus on the challenges of maintaining an all volunteer force in a budget constrained environment by looking at the impacts on military personnel and family related programs. "These programs, such as Morale, Welfare and Recreation; Child Care; Military Exchanges; Commissaries; and Family Services which include DOD Schools, are vital to maintaining the readiness of the military. Since most of these programs are staffed by civilians, the furloughing of military civilian personnel has a huge impact on these programs, to include our medical treatment facilities. Although the Department and the services have made commitments to minimize the impact a continuing resolution and sequestration will have on these programs, especially those impacting wounded warriors and families; there will be reductions and it will affect the daily lives of our servicemembers and their families, to include retirees. "The committee will hear from the witnesses on how the continuing resolution, sequestration and declining operations and maintenance accounts will impact the military personnel and family programs, which have been crucial for maintaining an all volunteer force during more than 10 years of war. Although the House has passed a Defense Appropriations bill for the remainder of Fiscal year 2013, the Senate has yet to do so and the threat of a year long CR is still there. It is a challenge for the services to manage these programs without a timely budget, and unfortunately CRs have become a norm. "I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses." Witnesses Lieutenant General Howard B. Bromberg , USA Deputy Chief of Staff G-1, U.S. Army • Witness Truth in Testimony [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Lieutenant General Darrell D. Jones , USAF Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services, U.S. Air Force • Witness Truth in Testimony [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Lieutenant General Robert E. Milstead , USMC Deputy Commandant, Manpower and Reserve Affairs, U.S. Marine Corps • Witness Truth in Testimony • Witness Biography [PDF] Vice Admiral Scott R. Van Buskirk , USN Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, Manpower, Personnel, Training, and Education, U.S. Navy • Witness Truth in Testimony [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] Dr. Jonathan Woodson Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs, Department of Defense • Witness Truth in Testimony [PDF] • Witness Biography [PDF] The Honorable Jessica Wright Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense • Witness Truth in Testimony [PDF] Witness Biography [PDF]
03.08.2013	(West Columbia, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its latest jobs report: Wilson stated, “Although today’s jobs report provides some good news to the American people, it is also reflective of the fact our economy has failed to put over 12 million people back to work. For the past four years, Americans have watched as the President and the Senate refused to tackle our annual trillion dollar deficits accompanied with an average unemployment rate of over eight percent. Last Congress, the House passed dozens of job-creating pieces of legislation, most with bipartisan support. The Senate, due to lack of leadership from the President, ignored our efforts and failed to even negotiate with us. The gridlock in Washington must come to an end. The American people deserve a Congress that can work together to pass legislation that will help put millions back to work. Over the coming months, it is my hope that the Senate will begin to change course and work with House Republicans on a solution, rather than continue down the broken path we are currently on.”
03.08.2013	Next Monday, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will open a new office space in Barnwell which will be visited by staff bimonthly, every 2nd and 4th Wednesday from 10AM-1PM . Ribbon Cutting for New Offices in Barnwell County March 11, 2013 11:00 AM Barnwell County Courthouse Room 106 141 Main Street Barnwell, SC 29812 *Media Availability following ribbon cutting.
03.07.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 879, the Biennial Budgeting and Appropriations Act, last week. Each year, the House and Senate have nine months to agree upon and pass a budget and twelve separate appropriations bills to fund government activities. Since 1980, Congress has only twice completed the appropriations process before the deadline on October 1. This bill would change the Congressional budget procedure from a one-year to a two-year cycle. Under a system of biennial budgeting, Congress would take the first year of each Congress to pass a two-year budget and two-year appropriations bills, leaving the second year for consideration of oversight of government programs and authorization bills. Wilson stated, “Washington has a spending problem and the only way we can begin to address this issue is by making wiser decisions regarding our federal budget. With an over $16 trillion national debt, we must institute policies that spend taxpayer dollars more efficiently. Moving from a one-year to a two-year budget process will allow Congress to devote more time and attention to the wasteful programs and policies that need reform. Over the coming months, I look forward to working with members on both sides of the aisle to advance the Biennial Budgeting and Appropriations Act and help Congress meet its responsibility of providing accountability to those we proudly serve.”
03.06.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) testified this morning before the House Budget Committee, which is led by Chairman Paul Ryan, requesting that appropriate funding levels be retained in the Fiscal Year 2014 budget for the Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell counties and Fort Jackson in Columbia. Both of these installations are vital to our national security and provide unique one-of-a-kind resources to our country. Excerpts from his speech are included below.Fort Jackson: Wilson stated, “Fort Jackson serves as the Army’s largest initial entry training facility. Between fiscal years 07 to 12 the number of Soldiers who were trained at Fort Jackson ranged from 35,000 recruits to a maximum of 46,000. Due to the sequester, the Army has informed me that $75 million of funding will be cut from Fort Jackson. This facility provides basic training to our men and women who selflessly serve our nation and defend our freedoms, while spreading democracy around the world. These dedicated brave men and women in uniform should not be subjected to budgeting confusion. As you work to draft the Fiscal Year 2014 budget, please do everything in your power to secure the funds necessary to train our men and women at Fort Jackson.” Savannah River Site: Wilson stated, “About an hour southwest of Columbia lies the Department of Energy’s Savannah River Site. This site is a national security asset, which disposes of weapons grade nuclear materials, conducts cutting edge research, and supports our country’s nuclear weapons missions. Sequestration has had a tremendous impact on the Site, causing over $100 million in funds to be cut and over 2,000 possible furloughs. That being said, there are concerns about cutting funding for the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MFFF) currently under construction at SRS. This facility, also called MOX for the Mixed Oxide Fuel it will create, is in line to be our country’s means to honor our nuclear non-proliferation agreement with Russia. In the agreement made in the year 2000, each of our countries agreed to dispose of 34 metric tons of excess military grade plutonium. That equates to over 17,000 nuclear bombs being removed from the world. Even more, the Facility will convert the military grade plutonium into commercial nuclear power rods which will power homes and businesses across the United States. The Project is over 60% completed and currently employs 2,300 workers with another 2,000 ancillary jobs associated with the Project. In addition to the hardworking and dedicated employees at the Facility, finishing MOX is imperative for a multitude of national security reasons. Slade Gordon, a member of the 9/11 Commission, stated ‘Every dollar diverted (from the MOX Facility) delays the effort to get rid of plutonium, and every delay provides more time for the material to be stolen.’ If we default on our end of the Agreement, Russia will have no incentive to dispose of their own excess weapons grade plutonium. I share Mr. Gordon’s concerns. It is in our mutual interest for America and Russia to continue working together. Apart from the future funding of the MOX Project, sequestration has ravaged funding across the board at SRS. The Environmental Management side of the Site alone will lose over $100 million in funds and contractors expect to furlough over 2,000 employees starting April 1st. Please keep in mind, these are completely separate of the aforementioned MOX workers. From H-Canyon to the Tank Farms, environmental cleanup funds have been slashed. Moreover, the Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL) cannot benefit monetarily from its inventions and does not possess a line item within the Budget, making it heavily reliant upon trickle down funding from other facilities within the DOE Nuclear Complex. A significant decrease in funding to SRNL poses a direct threat to our national security as the Laboratory is tasked with training all FBI forensic agents, is key in developing new military technologies implemented in the war on terror, and directly supports the environmental cleanup mission of legacy defense waste across the country.” Closing Statement: Wilson stated, “Your Committee has some extremely tough choices ahead. I fully understand. I simply ask that as you go through the budgetary process, you fully consider the critical national security missions being carried out at both Fort Jackson as well as the Savannah River Site. The individuals at both installations are dedicated to serving their country and putting the national interest of the United States before themselves. Please give them the tools they need to get the job done for nuclear non-proliferation and environmental cleanup while keeping us safe here at home.”
03.05.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson issued the following statement in response to the Savannah River Nuclear Solution's recent announcement to furlough 2,000 employees as a result of sequestration: "From day one, I have been concerned with the grave impacts sequestration would have on the Palmetto State's economy and our national security. Since it's conception in July 2011, I voted against the Budget Control Act and have supported two replacement bills, which were ignored by both the President and the Senate. Additionally, on April 5, 2012, I hosted a bipartisan round table to raise awareness of the threat of sequestration. In efforts to avoid extended furloughs, I have engaged in conversation with the appropriate entities in Washington to allow for flexibility in funding streams, hoping to secure the resources needed for little disruption at the Site. As a member of Congress who represents South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, I remain committed to doing everything within my power to ensure that these issues are resolved in a way that best protects the Savannah River Site's essential mission and the wellbeing of its hardworking employees."
03.04.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson and 48 other members of the House of Representatives today sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel. The subject of the letter was the Department of Defense's recent decision to create the new Distinguished Warfare Medal (DWM) and place it above the Bronze Star and Purple Heart in the order of precedence. Recipients of the DWM are recognized for their extraordinary service that directly impacts combat operations, while not being physically present in a combat zone. “The brave men and women in our Armed Forces dedicate their lives to serve this great nation and often times put themselves in harms way to protect the freedoms and liberties all Americans are able to enjoy. The recent Department of Defense decision to rank the Distinguished Warfare Medal higher in precedence than the Bronze Star and Purple Heart does a disservice to our service members and veterans who have severed overseas in hostile and austere conditions. It is my hope that Secretary Hagel will change the Department’s decision so that our veterans who have earned the Bronze Star and Purple Heart will receive the appropriate recognition they have earned and deserve.” In addition to Congressman Wilson, the following Members of Congress co-signed the letter to Secretary Hagel: Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) Rep. Randy Forbes (R-VA) Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) Rep. Mike Turner (R-OH) Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ) Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA) Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT) Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL) Del. Madeleine Bordallo (D-Guam) Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) Rep. Robert A. Brady (D-PA) Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) Rep. Bill Enyart (D-IL) Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) Rep. Joe Heck (R-NV) Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA) Rep. Jon Runyan (R-NJ) Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS) Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Bill Flores (R-TX) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN) Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX) Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA) Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA) Rep. Alan Nunnelee (R-MS) Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA) Rep. John Duncan (R-TN) Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AR) Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) Rep. Timothy Walz (D-MN) Rep. Ron Barber (D-AZ) Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE) Letter to Sec. Hagel - DWM
03.01.2013	https://bit.ly/ZJb1nW (Washington, DC) - In order to show his support for finding a replacement for the drastic budget cuts that went into effect today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) attended a press conference this morning hosted by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon to address sequestration. His remarks are listed below. “As a 31 year veteran of the Army National Guard, I want to thank Chairman Buck McKeon for his extraordinary leadership on behalf of a strong national defense. We’re here today as this is the third round of budget cuts on the Defense Department. Under Secretary Gates, there was a $100 billion reduction that was followed by a $487 bill deduction in defense spending. Today begins ultimately the possibility of $600 billion in cuts. The American people need to know that these are targeted. The Defense budget is at best 18% of the budget, but 50% of these cuts will be applied to defense. “Additionally, the American people need to know that our defenses are at a low point. We will have the fewest troops since 1939 in the Army and Marine Corps, the fewest ships since 1916 (Navy), and the fewest aircraft since the Air Force was created in 1947. We already see Gallup has conducted a survey indicating that the confidence of the American people in our national security is at an all-time low since the questions were first asked in 1993. I am very hopeful that we can come together on addressing these issues. We know that the policies of defense that work are peace through strength and I hope the President will change his policies and recognize how important it is to have peace through strength and not a circumstance of attack through weakness.”
02.28.2013	https://bit.ly/YZSph6 (Washington, DC) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered a One Minute Speech on the House floor this morning regarding the looming sequester that will hit at midnight tonight. Wilson stated, “At midnight tonight, the Department of Defense and other government agencies will fall victim to the President’s sequester. Every American family will be affected by the shifting of funds. In the South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, which I am grateful to represent, the Army’s base at Fort Jackson in Columbia is expected to lose approximately $75 million dollars. Additionally, the Savannah River Site in Aiken and Barnwell will be forced to furlough thousands of hardworking employees and stall critical national missions due to a possible $200 million budget cut. Both of these shifts will endanger our national security. The President and the Senate have refused to negotiate with House Republicans on a possible solution until today. House Republicans have voted twice to avoid sequestration. Our nation has a spending problem and we must address these issues before it is too late and our debt spirals out of control. The President should change course and begin working with both Houses of Congress to tackle the nation debt, which threatens American families. In conclusion, God Bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.”
02.27.2013	The House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel held a hearing today on The Impact to Military End Strength in a Budget Constrained Environment. Chairman Joe Wilson (SC) made the following opening statement as prepared for delivery: "The Subcommittee today will focus on the harsh realities of maintaining an all volunteer force in a budget constrained environment—reducing end strength of the military services. "Although I understand the fiscal realities, as I have made clear in the past, I have serious reservations about the end strength and force structure reduction plans for our military. America remains at war today and will continue at some level of persistent conflict globally with a ruthless and committed enemy for the foreseeable future encouraged by outlaw rogue regimes, we must not forget the attacks of September 11, 2001. "Nevertheless, the task of reducing manpower is not easily accomplished and must be done with great care and compassion to ensure the services keep faith with servicemembers and their families who have served our Nation through more than ten years of war. The committee will hear from the witnesses on which authorities the department and each of the services plan to use to reduce end strength over the next several years. We will also explore the impact of a year-long Continuing Resolution and sequestration on the services current end strength plans. As a reminder, military personnel accounts are exempt in fiscal year 2013 from cuts under sequestration; but that does not guarantee there will not be a long term impact on end strength levels. "Of significant concern to me is that increasing fiscal pressure on the military services, especially the Army and Marine Corps, will compel them to move from gradual reductions in manning levels to precipitous declines. I am also concerned that if the military services are compelled to make more significant reductions than now planned, that the use of involuntary separation authorities will become the norm. "I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses: The Honorable Jessica L. Wright Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Lieutenant General Howard B. Bromberg Deputy Chief of Staff G-1 U. S. Department of the Army Vice Admiral Scott R. Van Buskirk Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, Manpower, Personnel, Training, and Education U. S. Department of the Navy Lieutenant General Robert E. Milstead, Jr Deputy Commandant, Manpower and Reserve Affairs United States Marine Corps Lieutenant General Darrell D. Jones Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services U. S. Department of the Air Force "I would also like to recognize that today is the first appearance before the Subcommittee for Lieutenant General Bromberg and Secretary Wright. Welcome to both of you."
02.14.2013	Chairman Joe Wilson of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing H.R. ___, the Healthcare for Early Retirement Eligible Reservists Act of 2013. This bill allows retirees of the National Guard and Reserve to receive medical and dental care at military treatment facilities prior to reaching age 60. The fiscal year 2009 National Defense Authorization Act granted qualifying retired reservists within our Armed Forces the ability to obtain early retirement, but did not grant healthcare benefits. Wilson stated, “Since 2001, the members of the National Guard and Reserve have played an integral role in all of our overseas contingency operations. It is only fair that we offer these brave men and women, who have dedicated their lives to keep us safe, the healthcare they have earned and deserve while serving our nation.”
02.12.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this evening in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “With a national debt of over sixteen trillion dollars, record unemployment on the rise, and a shrinking national GDP, now is the time for the President to work with Congress to achieve balanced solutions to put our economy back on the path to prosperity. This evening’s remarks by President Obama conveyed to the American people that our Commander in Chief does not believe we have a spending problem, “Last Congress, House Republicans passed legislation that supported an all-of-the-above energy proposal, a balanced-approach replacement for the impending sequester, and a national security strategy that kept American families safe. We were able to conquer our objectives while striving to put our fiscal house in order. Unfortunately, the President and his colleagues in the Senate have refused to consider our efforts or even negotiate with us. “Over the next four years, the only way our nation will begin to fully recover is if the President begins to change course. It is my hope that he will extend an olive branch and work with House Republicans to help put our economy back on the right path."
02.06.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 444, the Require A PLAN Act: “Washington has a spending problem and a spiraling out of control debt of over sixteen trillion dollars. On Monday, the President once again missed his deadline to submit a budget proposal to Congress, supporting the belief that he is not serious about tackling our spending problem. Additionally, over the last four years, the federal government has spent more than one trillion dollars annually beyond what it receives. The only way we can begin to get our fiscal house in order is to propose a balanced budget with responsible cuts. If American families are not allowed to spend beyond their means without consequence, the federal government should not be able to do it either. “The passage of today’s bill is a significant step in the right direction to hold the President accountable for his unsustainable spending. By requiring the President to propose a budget that balances, the American people will begin to restore their faith in Washington and believe that prosperity is possible for our future. Balancing our budget not only protects and preserves entitlement programs for our seniors and future generations; it also provides economic certainty, which will help America’s small businesses create jobs. As a proud cosponsor, it is my hope that the Senate will pass this fiscally responsible bill in a timely manner and send it to the President for his signature."
02.06.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will open a new permanent district office in Aiken and an office space to be visited routinely by staff in North Augusta. Ribbon Cutting for New Offices in Aiken County 10:00 AM Aiken Office of Congressman Joe Wilson- 828 Richland Ave. West, Suite 300 2:00PM North Augusta North Augusta Municipal Building – 100 Georgia Avenue *Media Availability following ribbon cuttings.
02.05.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after sending a letter to President Obama in support of the MOX project, a Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MFFF) at the Savannah River Site. Wilson stated, “The MOX facility at the Savannah River Site, located outside of Aiken, South Carolina, is an important project that is key in allowing the United States to fulfill our international nonproliferation obligations. The project turns “bombs into energy” and is the means by which the United States will honor our agreement with Russia by disposing of weapons-grade plutonium. Due to the impending sequester, the MOX project is on target to experience a budget cut, which threatens the future for the facility. To make matters worse, it has been brought to my attention that the Administration is considering not prioritizing this project in its FY2014 budget, which is a direct contradiction of its previous policy. “Not only will this action jeopardize our global perception, it also places our national security at risk. With only twenty-three short days to go until the sequester is fully implemented, it is my responsibility to be proactive in protecting our nation’s nonproliferation obligations to other countries. As a result, I have sent a letter to the President outlining why the MOX facility must stay on target to be completed. Members from both sides of the aisle have joined my efforts, proving that this issue is not partisan politics, but one of grave national security concern. It is my hope that the President will carefully consider the harsh implications that may result if this program is suspended.” *To view a copy of the letter, please click here.
02.01.2013	(West Columbia) – Congressman Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in observance of the American Heart Association’s National Wear Red Day: “Heart disease is the number one killer of women in the United States and takes the life of one in three women each year. This disease also kills more women than all forms of cancer combined. These facts are a cause for action and our community must join together to spread awareness of heart disease to all the women in our lives. “As a member of Congress and the former Lexington County Chairman of the American Heart Association (AHA), I appreciate the AHA’s efforts in designating February as the ‘Making America Go Red’ month in order to educate our nation’s women on the risks, causes, and prevention of this illness. As a way to show support for this initiative, my staff and I have worn red and pledge to make our loved ones aware of the growing risks imposed by America’s number one cause of death. “Over the next month, I encourage each of you to learn more about heart disease so that you can prevent and decrease the risk of death within your families and communities.” *To learn more, I encourage you to visit www.heart.org or call the South Carolina Heart Association at (803) 738-9540.
01.23.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed the No Budget, No Pay Act by a vote of 285-144: “Today, House Republicans, with bipartisan support, made a significant stride in putting our fiscal house in order with the passage of the No Budget, No Pay Act. The primary reason our nation is in such financial turmoil and has accrued over sixteen trillion dollars in debt is due to the lack of fiscal responsibility by our federal government. For almost four years, the Senate has failed to fulfill its responsibility to the American people by passing a budget. If hardworking American families and small businesses owners choose not to spend beyond their means and follow a budget, it is the government’s duty to abide by one as well. “The House has acted. I encourage the Senate to do its job and pass a budget, or suffer the consequences and have their pay withheld. Over the next few months, I look forward to working with my colleagues to rein in Washington’s out of control spending by supporting significant spending cuts and reforms that will place our nation back on the path to prosperity. The American people deserve it.”
01.23.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing where Secretary of State Clinton testified about the Benghazi terrorist attack: “Earlier today, Secretary Clinton testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee regarding the devastating terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya, which resulted in the deaths of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other service personnel. Although I am grateful for Secretary Clinton’s testimony and her service to our nation, unanswered questions and countless security concerns remain. “The American people still deserve answers to the legitimate questions surrounding this horrific act of terrorism that occurred at our Consulate on the eleventh anniversary of September 11th, 2001. What prevented our military, the most capable and efficient in the world, from responding immediately or at any time during the seven-hour attack? Why has it taken so long to bring the terrorists who murdered our dedicated and selfless service personnel to justice? And more importantly, what can the government do to ensure that this kind of senseless attack will not occur again? “With growing instability in the Middle East, Northern Africa, and around the world, one clear fact remains: The President’s foreign policies are failing and placing a very real danger on our national security.” ### Please find a transcript of Congressman Wilson’s first question below. To view the video, click here. Rep. Wilson: As we begin, it has been reported since you managed the response to the Benghazi attack, why weren't you the person to appear on the Sunday shows immediately following the attack? Ambassador Susan Rice said that you declined. Is that correct? Sec. Clinton: I have to confess here in public, going on the Sunday shows is not my favorite things to do. There are other things I prefer to do on Sunday mornings and I have not been on a Sunday show in way over a year. So it just isn't something that I normally jump to do. I did feel strongly that we had a lot that we had to manage that I had to respond to and I thought that should be my priority. Rep. Wilson: And I believe that part of the priority is telling correct information and you could have done that. I think it’s just very unfortunate the multiple appearances by Ambassador Rice with information that has been discovered not to be correct.
01.22.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in remembrance of the 40th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision: “Forty years ago today, our nation’s highest Court delivered a grave decision that weakened the immeasurable value of human life and forever changed our culture. Since 1973, over 50 million unborn children have been denied the unalienable right to life. Today, I pay tribute to these innocent lives and pledge my support to protect every human life, those born and unborn.”
01.07.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will hold three press conferences on Monday, January 7th, across the Second Congressional District to unveil his legislative priorities for 2013: 2013 Legislative Agenda Press Conferences Monday, January 7, 2013 9:00AM West Columbia Office of Congressman Joe Wilson- 1700 Sunset Blvd. 11:00AM Aiken Aiken County Office Complex – 828 Richland Avenue West 1:00PM North Augusta North Augusta Municipal Building – 100 Georgia Avenue
01.07.2013	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today unveiled his legislation agenda for 2013. Wilson held three press conferences throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional District in West Columbia, Aiken, and North Augusta to announce his priorities for the 113th Congress. “Throughout the last few years, it has become increasing clear that America does not have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. With the start of a new Congress, House Republicans have a tremendous opportunity to put our nation back on the path to prosperity, rather than continue down the uncontrolled spiral we have been on for the past four years. In order to achieve this goal, the Senate and the President must work with the House to cut spending and reduce our over $16 trillion national debt before it is too late. “Our nation has not seen such record unemployment since the Great Depression. An average rate above eight percent for the past four years is completely unacceptable. Over the next year, Congress will help to restore the American people’s faith in government and belief that our nation’s economy will recover stronger and more vibrant than ever before. This will require removing the government’s influence over the private sector and its ability to create jobs through economic growth. “As always, I remain committed to protecting and promoting our brave men and women in uniform, our military families, and our veterans. In order to protect our national security, our military must maintain its responsiveness and possess the capabilities to promote peace through strength around the world. “As the 113th session begins, I am grateful for the opportunity to serve the people of South Carolina’s Second Congressional District and I look forward to representing them to the best of my ability.” Wilson’s Agenda for 2013: Create Jobs Through Economic Growth: Cut excessive red tape and regulations to help small businesses grow; Work with county, regional and state agencies to attract businesses to South Carolina; Protect South Carolina’s “Right to Work” laws; Defund the Government Healthcare Takeover Bill Reducing Washington’s Out of Control Spending: Require a vote on Congressional pay; Make the government more accountable by sponsoring legislation calling for biennial appropriations; Support a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution; Efficiencies within federal government agencies Energy Independence and Efficiency: Promote construction of Keystone XL Pipeline; Fight to ensure South Carolina does not become our nation’s dumping ground for Spent Nuclear Fuel; Work to promote clean energy across our state via Energy Saving Performance Contracts Promote Our Military and Veterans: Maintain our military’s responsiveness and capabilities to promote peace through strength; Protect TRICARE benefits and sustain the quality of life for military families as Chairman of the HASC Subcommittee on Military Personnel; Support Guard and Reserve units in their transition following deployments; Assist Veterans with their transition to the workforce
01.03.2013	Chairman Joe Wilson of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel (SC-02) issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 32, the Military Surviving Equity Act of 2013. Currently, the Department of Defense’s Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) is offset, dollar-for-dollar, by the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) plan, which is not what Congress intended. This bill would eliminate the offset, also known as the “widow’s tax,” on approximately 60,000 widows and widowers of our Armed Forces. Wilson stated, “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel and thirty-one year veteran of the Army National Guard, promoting and protecting our military families is one of my top priorities. Our Armed Forces dedicate their lives to defend this great nation. Without the support of their spouses’, many of our brave men and women in uniform would not be able to stay focused during training and deployments. As devastating causalities occur, it is of utmost importance and our responsibility to keep the faith with our service members by taking proper care of their families in the event of death. Federal civilian employees have similar survivor benefit plans, but do not suffer an offset. Because our military families are serving our country by supporting their loved one, it is only fair that we treat them equally, rather than penalizing them with this offset. In addition to Chairman Wilson, eleven Republicans and three Democrats signed on as original cosponsor to this bill. *A copy of the bipartisan legislation can be found here.
12.20.2012	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement as prepared for delivery on the House floor regarding the Conference Report on H.R. 4310—National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013: Wilson stated, “The conference report for the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act provides our war fighters, veterans and military families the care and support they need, deserve, and have earned; additionally ensuring that proposed drawdown plans do not cut to the heart of the Army and Marine Corps. Specifically, the conference report will: Authorize a troop pay increase of 1.7% and extend bonuses and special pay for our service members; Limit end strength reductions for the active Army and Marine Corps; Provide significant new regulations and procedures for combating and prosecuting sexual assault within the military; Extend access to family housing for six months and Commissary and Exchange benefits for two years for troops who are involuntarily separated; and Control the rate of co-pay increases for the Tricare pharmacy benefit. “From the beginning, the military personnel provisions in the Fiscal Year 2013 Defense Authorization Act have resulted from a bipartisan process. I want to thank the subcommittee Ranking Member, Congresswoman Susan Davis for her contributions and support in this process. “Additionally, I appreciate the dedication of the Subcommittee staff: John Chapla, Debra Wada, Jeanette James, Craig Greene, and Jim Weiss along with my Military Legislative Assistant Chad Sydnor and Military Fellow, Marine Master Gunnery Sergeant Michelle King. “I also want to note the contributions of Michael Higgins, a subcommittee staffer and true professional, who has devoted 23 years of service to the committee after serving 20 years in the Air Force. Mike will be retiring soon and this conference report will be his last one. Mike has made a positive difference on behalf of service members, military families and veterans. “I urge my colleagues to support the conference report on the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act.”
12.20.2012	Today, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces announced the approval of a reprogramming request of $34.2 million dollars from the Salt Waste Processing Facility’s (SWPF) operational account to its construction account. The reprogramming request will save 700 construction jobs at Savannah Rive Site (SRS): Wilson stated, “I first learned of the pending reprogramming request and the 700 jobs at stake during a December 12, 2012, meeting with Department of Energy officials. In an effort to ensure the Request was considered in as timely of a manner as possible, I hand-delivered my personal reprogramming request to the Strategic Forces Subcommittee Chairman, Mike Turner. I also spoke with Department of Energy Assistant Secretary Jeff Lane. I expressed to Secretary Lane the importance of the reprogramming request with regards to jobs at SRS. “I truly appreciate the hard work of both the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces as well as the Department of Energy. The Second Congressional District of South Carolina can not afford to lose 700 jobs and thanks to the hard work of both, these jobs have been preserved.” *Please find a copy of the letter Congressman Wilson hand-delivered to Chairman Turner on December 12, 2012 here. SRS Reprogramming Request
12.17.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley announced Tim Scott will replace Senator Jim DeMint in the United States Senate: Wilson stated, “Governor Nikki Haley’s decision to appoint Tim Scott to the United States Senate is a historic day for South Carolina and our nation. Tim is an honorable, principled conservative and I have no doubt that he will continue to carry out these beliefs when representing all of the Palmetto State. Over the past two years, Tim Scott has held firm to his convictions and done his best to change the ways of Washington by restoring faith in politics. Throughout our years in public service, I have been fortunate enough to establish a friendship with Tim. I cannot imagine a more deserving and credible candidate to replace Senator Jim DeMint. I look forward to continue working with Tim Scott and the rest of the South Carolina delegation to promote the ideas of limited government and expanded freedom.”
12.13.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement this afternoon after being reappointed Chairman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee for the 113th Congress by House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25) and Republican Leadership: Wilson stated, “I am grateful to be given the opportunity to continue serving as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel throughout the next Congress. The United States military is the most responsive and capable in the world. In order to protect these brave men and women serving in uniform, their families, and our nation, we must continue to posses these strengths. It is my goal to advocate for those who have and continue to fight to defend our nation and our freedoms. I look forward to working with Chairman McKeon and the Republican leadership in our efforts to promote the quality of life for our military personnel, our veterans, and their families. In response to Chairman Wilson's reappointment, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon stated, “Our men and women in uniform and their families have a tremendous champion in Joe Wilson. As the head of a military family himself, he knows better than most the unique challenges military service presents. Joe has done a terrific job running the Military Personnel Subcommittee for the past two years and I am honored that he has agreed to continue to serve."
12.12.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) hosted a meeting earlier today with David Huizenga, the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Senior Advisor for Environmental Management, and Dr. Dave Moody, the DOE Operations Manager at Savannah River Site (SRS). In addition to Congressman Wilson, staffers from every South Carolina Congressional office were in attendance as well as Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-04). Congressman Wilson held the meeting to bring awareness to possible budget shortfalls at SRS and to start a dialogue towards finding solutions to avoid unsustainable cuts. Following the meeting, Congressman Wilson stated, “I appreciate the opportunity to have a direct conversation with DOE leadership and the support of the entire South Carolina delegation present at the meeting. Savannah River Site is an essential asset not only to the greater Aiken and Barnwell communities and our State, but also to our country. The meeting was very candid and productive and I look forward to continuing to work closely with the Department of Energy, the Site’s contractors, and the rest of the South Carolina Congressional delegation, to ensure that SRS is provided with the funding needed to perform its vital mission for our nation.”
12.06.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Senator Jim DeMint announced his resignation: Wilson stated, “For the past fourteen years, Senator Jim DeMint has represented South Carolina exceptionally well in the United States House and Senate by fighting for limited government and expanded freedom. Although we are sad to see Senator DeMint leave political office, the Heritage Foundation will be a wonderful fit for our nation’s most conservative Senator. I am hopeful Governor Nikki Haley will appoint a strong, conservative leader to serve as the Palmetto State's junior Senator.”
11.30.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after recognizing the month of November as National Adoption Month: Wilson stated, "Over the last month, American families have celebrated the blessing of adoption through National Adoption Month. As a proud adoptive parent myself, I know firsthand the joys, challenges, and rewards associated with this special gift. Although the process of bringing a child into your family can be overwhelming and exhausting, it is my responsibility as an elected official to make this system more fair and balanced for all of the children and adults in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. “Earlier this month, I signed the National Adoption Month Resolution, which is aimed to raise awareness for the challenges faced by over 100,000 children in our nation’s foster care system. In efforts to help ease the financial stress experienced by the families considering adopting a child, I have continued to support extending and making the adoption tax credit permanent. As a member of the bipartisan House Adoption Caucus, I look forward to working with my colleagues over the next year to help children experience adoption and the ability to grow with a loving, supportive family.”
11.16.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal Act of 2012 (PNTR): Wilson stated, “The passage of today’s bipartisan legislation is a step in the right direction to put our economy back on the path to prosperity. With record unemployment and weak economic growth, our nation needs to practice comprehensive free trade principles that will businesses the ability to grow and prosper. By granting permanent normal trade relations with Russia, America’s businesses and workers will be able to fairly compete with the services provided by those in foreign countries. As a result, South Carolina farmers and manufacturers will benefit significantly. I am hopeful that with Russia joining the World Trade Organization, the United States will be able to practice fair and transparent trade with them in the future.”
11.16.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in regards to the violence in the Middle East aimed at Israel: Wilson stated, "The escalating conflict in the Middle East between Hamas and Israel is a result of ongoing attacks in which Hamas indiscriminately targets Israeli civilians with rockets and mortars. Israel, our most valued Ally in the region, has a right to defend herself against these threats. The United States will continue to stand by Israel and the Israeli people, just as we have done since her founding in 1948. "The rocket and mortar attacks being launched by Hamas are acts of cowardice and terrorism and have no place in a civil world. As a nation, our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Israel. It is our hope that the conflict will be resolved and the region will return to peace. I encourage the President to stand behind Israel and help bring this conflict to an end."
10.22.2012	House Armed Services Subcommittee Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) received the "Distinguished Legislator of the Year Award" by the National Association for Uniformed Services in Alexandria, VA on Saturday, October 20, 2012. Wilson stated, “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, standing up for the challenges faced by our brave men and women serving in uniform remains my top priority. Having served in the Army National Guard for thirty-one years and a proud father of four sons currently serving in the military, I am grateful for the National Association for Uniformed Services and the hard work they provide to protect our Armed Forces. I am truly humbled to have received this award and look forward to working with NAUS in the future."
10.05.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its latest jobs report for the month of September 2012: “When the President lobbied for his nearly trillion dollar stimulus plan, he promised America, that with its passage, unemployment would be at 5.6% by September 2012. For the first time since January 2009, our nation’s unemployment rate has dropped below eight percent. Although this offers encouragement, it does not take into account the millions of Americans who have removed themselves from the workforce because they have given up hope in finding a job or the hundreds of thousands who are only working part-time. “The President’s policies have driven our nation farther into debt with little improvement; our national debt is now 80% of GDP. Our country is in dire need of real leadership. American families have been at a stalemate for the past three and a half years. Mothers and fathers are beginning to give up hope that they will find employment and be able to provide for their families. Recent college graduates are not able to find jobs that will utilize the skill set learned in the classroom. Our country needs a new path with goals and ideas that promote job creation and prosperity, rather than hinder economic growth. “House Republicans have a clear vision of what our country needs to produce jobs and spur economic growth. Over the past year and a half, Congress has passed dozens of bi-partisan legislation aimed to reduce government regulations, allowing America’s small businesses to create jobs. It is my hope that the liberal-controlled Senate and President Obama will begin to consider these job-creating pieces of legislation and help put American back on the path to economic success.”
09.21.2012	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement this afternoon recognizing POW/MIA Recognition Day. “Our Armed Forces dedicate their lives to defend our freedoms. These efforts do not go unnoticed and our Nation will be forever grateful. Today, we remember the courageous men and women who have served our country, but have never come home, those who are missing in action. Without their selfless actions, America would not remain the greatest democracy in the world. My thoughts and prayers go out to their families who are left with uncertainty. We also honor the brave members in uniform who have endured the unthinkable as a prisoner of war. America offers the utmost respect to these individuals and the challenges they have faced to keep our Nation safe. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee on Military Personnel, I strive to do my best to serve as a voice for the American heroes who have yet to return home from combat, as well as those who have been held captive in the name of freedom. The America people will never forget your sacrifices and remain immensely thankful for your service.”
09.20.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement this afternoon after the House passed H.J.Res. 118, a resolution disapproving of the Obama Administration's attempt to waive the work welfare requirement. “Today’s disapproval resolution sends a very clear message to the Administration. Congress will not sit back and watch as the President governs by executive power, removing bipartisan requirements set to help Americans out of poverty by encouraging them to return to the workforce. Instead, the President uses his Administration as a tool to carry out his overreaching policies. Rather than providing the hope and reassurance necessary to recover from this economic recession, President Obama’s policies are causing more and more discouraged Americans to become dependent upon the government. “Our national unemployment has remained at or above eight percent for the past forty-three months. Twenty-three million Americans are searching for a job and over forty-six million are receiving food stamps, a number that has increased drastically since the President was sworn into office. Based upon my experience as Chairman of the South Carolina State Senate committee responsible for welfare reform, I know for a fact that the President’s liberal, pro-government policies will not help eager Americans find employment and resume the ability to personally provide for their families. It is my hope that the Senate will consider and pass this resolution, which will pressure the Administration to reinstate the work requirement required by the 1996 bipartisan law.”
09.14.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today after the Obama Administration released its report as required by the Sequestration Transparency Act. “Today’s Sequestration Transparency report released by the Administration is disappointing, but not surprising. Judging by the report’s seven-day delay, it is clear the President does not view this important issue as a top priority. The Administration’s lack of leadership to stop the devastating defense budget cuts conveys that the President is not concerned with placing our national security at risk. This report provides no direction as to how sequestration will be implemented if it were to occur; nor, does it guarantee that our military will possess the equipment, personnel, and capability needed to keep America safe. “The impacts of the impending sequester will be devastating. Not only is the president taking a gamble with the safety of the American people by cutting our military personnel and reducing their equipment, he is also threatening the ability of our Armed Forces to protect themselves overseas. Our brave men and women serving in uniform have dedicated their lives to keeping the American people and the freedoms we enjoy secure. If sequestration is fully implemented, thousands of hardworking Americans will be forced out of employment. The number of American families receiving pink slips, as early as November, could possibly lead to an increase in our unemployment rate by a full percentage point. With record unemployment at or above eight percent for the past 43 months, it is absolutely necessary for the Administration to address sequestration head on and prevent its implementation.”
09.13.2012	The Military Personnel Subcommittee met today for a hearing on Federal Voting Assistance Program. Chairman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement available as prepared for delivery: "Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony from the Department of Defense to help us understand how members of the Armed Forces and their families along with U.S. civilians living and working outside of the United States are afforded the opportunity to exercise their right to vote. I want to welcome our witnesses and I look forward to their testimony. "Voting is a fundamental and essential part of the democratic process. It is both our right and our duty as citizens of a democracy to set the direction of the Nation by selecting the individuals who will represent us at each level of government. This responsibility remains with us regardless of where we choose to live and work or, as in the case of our service members, where they are sent to defend our freedom. "For many years Congress has been concerned about military and overseas voters who have told us about the difficulties they face when they try to cast their ballots. Registering to vote, receiving a ballot by mail and returning the ballot by mail in time for the vote to count in an election when the voter is not physically located in the U.S. is challenging at best. One can only imagine the difficulty trying to accomplish that same process when the voter is at a remote outpost in Afghanistan fighting a war. "Yet, these are the very individuals who, through their military service, protect our right to vote. Congress has worked hard over the last several years to ensure that the men and women assigned overseas on behalf of our country do not lose their ability to vote as a result of their service. A number of federal laws have been enacted to enable the military and U.S. citizens abroad to vote in federal elections. "Most recently, Congress enacted the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (MOVE) Act as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The MOVE Act required the Department of Defense to make several changes to the Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) to improve the process by which military absentee voters cast their ballots. However the most recent report by the DODIG on DOD’s implementation of the requirements of the MOVE Act finds that the military services are falling short in establishing Installation Voting Assistance offices. I look forward to hear from our DOD witness how the Department will fully implement the legislated improvements that were intended to assist military and overseas voters. I am also interested to know how the changes to FVAP have affected the military and overseas voter in the lead up to the 2012 general election. "I will close by saying that every day, our troops lay their lives on the line to defend freedom and it is our job to make sure that they are not denied the right to vote. "We are joined today by an outstanding panel. We would like to give each witness the opportunity to present his or her testimony and each member an opportunity to question the witnesses. "Let me welcome our panel: Ambassador Kenneth Moorefield Deputy Inspector General for Plans and Operations Department of Defense Ms. Pamela S. Mitchell Acting Director, Federal Voting Assistance Program Defense Human Resources Activity"
09.13.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1775, the Stolen Valor Act. “Our brave men and women who have willingly sacrificed their lives to protect and serve our country deserve our upmost respect, honor, and gratitude. The passage of today’s bill further protects the dignity of our Armed Forces. Individuals who dishonestly claim to have dedicated their lives to ensure the American people’s safety for their own person gain deserve punishment. Their actions constitute criminal fraud and they should be prosecuted accordingly. As a proud cosponsor of this legislation, I urge the Senate to take immediate passage and look forward to the President signing this bill into law.”
09.13.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 6365, The National Security and Job Protection Act: “Sequestration is a serious threat to our national security and economic recovery. Last May, the House passed the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act with bipartisan support to halt the implementation of the $600 billion defense budget cut by replacing it with common-sense reforms. Unfortunately, the liberal-controlled Senate has refused to take action on this piece of legislation. Additionally, the president has failed to address this issue and submit a report outlining his plans of implementation. “The passage of today’s bill brings sequestration again into the forefront. The lack of leadership shown by the Administration shows that the president is taking a gamble with our economy. If sequestration is not addressed, hundreds of thousands of jobs will be destroyed, potentially enough to increase our unemployment rate by a full percentage point. Our military personnel and capabilities will face a drastic reduction, threatening our Armed Forces ability to defend this nation. With the passage of this legislation, the Administration will be forced to tackle this national security issue, and fulfill its obligation to protect and defend the American people. “
09.12.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement regarding the attacks on Americans in Libya: “This morning’s act of unprovoked, horrific violence, resulting in the brutal death of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans in Benghazi, is senseless and will not be tolerated. I condemn these attacks as my thoughts and prayers are with the victim’s families. The Administration must do everything in its power on behalf of the American people to seek justice on those who perpetrated this act of terrorism. “Ambassador Stevens and his brave colleagues worked tirelessly to help the Libyan people establish a democracy during a time of civil unrest. Their efforts are appreciated by the American people and will never be forgotten. With such instability occurring in Benghazi and Cairo, the United States must send a very clear message to the extreme insurgents who dwell on destroying our freedoms. These terrible acts of violence will not suppress our mission of promoting democracy and peace.”
09.11.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this morning in recognition of the 11th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. “Eleven years ago today, a group of terrorists declared war on our country by taking the lives of innocent Americans with the hopes of destroying the freedoms that we hold so dear. The memories of the victims whose lives were taken at the Pentagon, the World Trade Center, and the field in rural Shanksville, Pennsylvania by this terrible act of terrorism will never be forgotten. “These violent attacks have shown the world our country’s strength and resilience. Today, I join the American people in prayer as we pay our respects to the brave men and women who were senselessly taken from us on that bright September morning. Since that fateful day, our Armed Forces have fought tirelessly, risking their lives to prevent another future tragedy from occurring. The servicemembers whom have paid the ultimate sacrifice protecting our great Nation deserve our utmost gratitude and recognition. In order to keep America safe, our military must continue to remain the most capable in the world by possessing the resources necessary to protect our Nation and those fighting for us in harms way.”
09.07.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this morning regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.“The policies supported by the Obama Administration and the liberal-controlled Senate are destroying jobs and kicking the can further down the road, rather than spurring economic growth and job creation. The claim that our Nation is on a path to economic recovery could not be further from the truth. Today’s latest jobs report further supports the fact that the President and his Administration’s policies have failed to create jobs, failed to encourage economic growth, and failed to reassure hardworking Americans that we can recover from this economic recession. “House Republicans are aware that American families are suffering due to the lack of leadership displayed by the President and the Senate to actually address the recurring problem of joblessness. For the past forty-three months, our unemployment rate has remained at or above eight percent. In order to put Americans back to work, we must pass legislation to remove government barriers that will promote job creation by encouraging small businesses to hire new employees. The House was passed dozens of job creating bills, most with bipartisan support, which sadly remained stalled in the Senate graveyard. I encourage the President and the liberal-controlled Senate to begin supporting House Republicans initiatives aimed to create jobs rather than relying on their job-restricting policies that have proven to fail for the past three and a half years.”
08.22.2012	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Aiken County and Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC (SRNS) announced plans to expand the county-owned Center for Hydrogen Research (CHR) facility by 6,435 feet, furthering technological advancement at the Savannah River National Laboratory (SRNL). Congressman Wilson stated, “Today’s announcement by Aiken County and SRNS is a tremendous achievement for South Carolina. The three million dollar expansion project will create jobs in Aiken County and further technological advancement at the Savannah River National Laboratory. Additionally, I am pleased with the Department of Energy’s decision to lease the project for ten years. This agreement could not have been reached without the leadership of Will Williams, Director of Economic Development Partnership, Terry Michalske, Director of Savannah River National Laboratory, and Ronnie Young, Chairman of Aiken County Council. I am grateful for SRNS’s commitment to the Aiken community and look forward to the success this project will bring to our National Lab and the Palmetto State.”
08.14.2012	Earlier this afternoon, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) received The L. Mendel Rivers Award, which was presented to him by the Air Force Sergeants Association. This honor is considered the Association’s “Legislator of the Year” award and is named after the late Congressman L. Mendel Rivers (D-SC), a former Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Each year, the Air Force Sergeants Association recognizes a recipient who champions the cause of outstanding service to the Air Force Active Duty, Guard and Reserve. Congressman Wilson stated, “I am very honored and humbled to have received this prestigious award. The United States Air Force will always play a vitally important role in protecting our national security by achieving peace through strength. Having served as member of the South Carolina Army National Guard for thirty-one years, I understand the importance of advocating for our devoted brave men and women serving in uniform and their families. As Chairman of the House Armed Subcommittee on Military Personnel, maintaining a strong national defense with committed and capable personnel will continue to remain one of my top priorities.”
08.03.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this morning regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “The latest unemployment report is not surprising and extremely discouraging to every American. For the past forty-two months, the National Bureau of Labor Statistics has reported that our unemployment rate has not dropped below eight percent. Since the President was sworn into office in January 2009, he has continuously promoted policies that grow the size of government so that it intrudes into our daily lives, our economy, and our freedoms. Without removing these barriers, which are prohibiting economic growth, our country will not be able to recover from the current economic recession. “American families are beyond frustrated with the size and growth of the federal government. Judging by the consistency in our unemployment rate, it is clear that the president’s policies are not helping to spur economy growth, but instead, are failing our Nation, making our economy much worse. Small business owners are not encouraged to expand and create jobs when they will be burdened with higher taxes and regulations as a result of success. House Republicans have worked tirelessly over the past year and a half to remove government red tape and barriers in order to protect America’s job creators and help them succeed in our fragile economy. It is my hope that the president and the liberal-controlled Senate will begin to support any of the dozens of bipartisan pro-growth bills currently stalled in the Senate graveyard.”
08.03.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the United States District of Columbia Court of Appeals announced its decision as to whether the Nuclear Regulatory Commission should be required to resume its work on the on Yucca Mountain license application. “Today's decision by the United States District of Columbia’s Court of Appeals regarding Aiken County’s petition to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is a tremendous victory for South Carolina, as well as the rest of the nation. Although action should be taken before December 14, the Court sent a very clear message to Congress and the Obama Administration: Continue the licensing review to open Yucca Mountain or we will issue a writ of mandamus and require immediate action. Congress has already taken the proper steps by appropriating funding for Yucca Mountain. Over the past twenty-nine years, South Carolina taxpayers have paid over $1.3 billion for this project, making our state the third highest contributor. By delaying action on the Yucca licensing application, the Obama Administration and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid are clearly placing politics over sound energy policy. It is my hope that the Commission will do the right thing and approve Yucca’s application process prior to the December 14th decision.”
07.26.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4078, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act. “Since the President took over three and a half years ago, our economy has not improved primarily due to the massive amounts of red tape and restrictions that have been placed on small business owners within the private sector. These government regulations prohibit America’s job creators from hiring new employees and expanding their businesses. Small business owners are the largest employers and the driving force behind our economy. With record unemployment of over eight percent for the past forty-one months, it is absolutely necessary for Congress to pass legislation aimed to encourage job creation, rather than place undue burdens on small businesses owners. “The passage of today’s bill is reassuring for our Nation. By removing unnecessary red tape and government-imposed restrictions that are proven to prevent private sector growth, our economy will be able to improve and be placed on a path to recovery. It is my hope that the Senate will act immediately and pass this legislation, as well as the dozens of job creation bills that have passed the House with bipartisan support. “
07.24.2012	Today, House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent a letter to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta requesting a briefing and explanation from the Department of Defense regarding the reprogramming request of $708 million from the Defense Health Program (DHP) and TRICARE. The Department of Defense has requested to use these funds for “higher priorities”; however, Chairman Wilson, along with 23 other Members of Congress, believes there are serious health issues facing our Armed Services and their families, which should take first priority. “The Department of Defense previously attacked TRICARE and the Defense Health Program by requesting Congress to approve TRICARE enrollment fee increases for military retirees and their families with the fiscal year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. Thankfully, the House Armed Services Committee rejected this proposal in order to protect the best interests of our brave men and women in uniform who have dedicated their lives protecting this great Nation. “Once again, the current Administration has targeted TRICARE and the Defense Health Program as a bill payer for undefined ‘higher priorities,' all the while asking Congress for the authority to raise fees on our military retirees and their families. Last year, the Department of Defense requested to use DHP left over funds for research and procurement of biofuels. It is absolutely irresponsible for the Administration to place wasteful biofuel programs over the health and safety of our Armed Forces. With the growing health threats of post traumatic stress, traumatic brain injuries, and suicides facing our service members, it is absolutely necessary for the funds designated to TRICARE and DHP be used to better protect those who have risked their lives keeping American families safe.” *Please find a copy the letter Chairman Wilson and the 23 cosigners sent to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta this afternoon here.
07.18.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5872, the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012, by a vote of 414-2. “The $1.2 trillion sequester expected to begin on January 2, 2013 is a severe and real threat to our country. Not only will these cuts threaten our brave men and women serving in uniform’s ability to defend our national security, they will also potentially destroy up to one million jobs nationwide. With a national unemployment rate above eight percent for the past forty-one months, our national workforce cannot afford the loss of one more job due to inaction by the liberal-controlled Senate. “The Administration must be held accountable for the way in which it plans to implement these drastic Department of Defense budget cuts. Transparency is absolutely necessary when placing our national security and economy at such high risk. By requiring the President to submit a report to Congress within 30 days of enactment, our nation’s taxpayers, military personnel, and small businesses are given the fairness they deserve by knowing the effects of sequestration. As a cosponsor of this bill, I am very pleased with its overwhelming bipartisan support. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to take immediate action on this very important issue.”
07.11.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act. "The Supreme Court's decision to uphold the President's government healthcare takeover bill is disastrous for our Nation’s economy. The 2,700 page bill that was shoved down the throats of every American without their consent has already had over 13,000 pages of government regulations written to implement it. These overreaching government policies will continue to cause great economic uncertainty, slowing economic growth and limiting job creation opportunities for the approximately thirteen million unemployed Americans who are searching for a job. With a national unemployment rate that has remained at or above eight percent for the past forty-one months, it is clear that the President’s liberal policies are failing our economy and destroying jobs. "Our Nation cannot afford the $1.76 trillion price tag or the twenty-one tax hikes soon to be imposed on America’s small businesses as a result of full implementation of Obamacare. In order to put our economy back on the path towards prosperity and economic success, Congress must pass healthcare reform legislation aimed at preserving the doctor-patient relationship while promoting private sector job growth. As a proud cosponsor of this legislation, it is my hope that the liberal-controlled Senate will take immediate action and pass this bill, rather than leaving it stalled in the Senate graveyard."
06.28.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the United States Supreme Court issued its ruling on the constitutionality of the government takeover healthcare bill. “Today’s decision by the United States Supreme Court is extremely disappointing for limited government and expanded freedom. We should have healthcare based on a doctor-patient relationship rather than a politician-patient mandate. When the President and his liberal allies shoved an extremely unpopular 2,000-page bill through both Chambers of Congress over two years ago, our government began to mandate certain practices on the American people without their consent. The American people know Ronald Reagan was correct, ‘We are learning that the way to prosperity is not more bureaucracy and redistribution of wealth but less government and more freedom for the entrepreneur and for the creativity of the individual.’ “House Republicans must continue to work to repeal the government healthcare takeover bill in its entirety. We will remain focused on enacting common sense legislation that will preserve the doctor-patient relationship, provide every American the access they need to healthcare, and promote job creation through private sector growth.”
06.21.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after learning First Lieutenant Ryan Rawl of Lexington, SC was killed Wednesday in Afghanistan. “We are able to enjoy our freedoms due to the sacrifices of the brave men and women serving in our Armed Forces. First Lieutenant Ryan Rawl paid the ultimate sacrifice dedicating his life protecting American families and all of the freedoms we hold so dear. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and loved ones. Although I cannot fully understand the pain you are experiencing, please know that we owe Ryan our utmost gratitude and respect. Freedom is not free. “
06.21.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after learning Specialist John David Meador II of Columbia, SC was killed Wednesday in Afghanistan. “Every member of our Armed Forces makes sacrifices to keep America and her freedoms safe. Without these sacrifices, America would not remain the most free and prosperous country in the world. Specialist John David “J.D.” Meador II paid the ultimate sacrifice and died honorably protecting these freedoms that we all enjoy. My thoughts and prayers are with friends, family, and loved ones. His service to our nation will never be forgotten and we will always be eternally grateful.”
06.07.2012	The Subcommittee on Military Personnel met today to examine the military resale programs within the Department of Defense, specifically the commissaries and exchanges operated by the Department. Chairman Joe Wilson gave the following opening statement: "These programs are widely acknowledged as highly valuable and appreciated benefits that support active duty retention, the wellbeing of the military community, and the combat readiness of the force. These services are vital for service members, military families, and veterans worldwide. In the current economy, commissaries and exchanges provide extraordinary job opportunities for military spouses and families. However, the recent pressures on the Defense budget have yielded a number of initiatives to reduce funding for these programs and decrease their value to service members and their families. "Although the threats to these programs were significant in 2011, the coordinated efforts of all the Members of this Subcommittee, and in particular the Ranking Member, Mrs. Davis, we were successful in fending off significant budget reductions. "Unfortunately, we cannot declare victory in this battle as the continuing pressure to shift budgets within the Department of Defense will energize the people that do not appreciate the value of these programs. This pressure can only be expected to increase in the coming months as the Congress debates the devastating reductions to Defense accounts that are associated with the sequestration process scheduled to begin early next year. "Let me be clear, I remain a strong supporter of military commissaries and exchanges and will continue to work to ensure that these programs endure through this era of budget challenges and remain the effective benefits that have served the our men and women in uniform and the Nation for so long."
06.07.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 436, the Health Care Cost Reduction Act of 2012. “House Republicans have voted over two dozen times to repeal, defund, or disassemble the president’s government takeover of healthcare law. The medical device excise tax included in ObamaCare will destroy jobs and increase the difficulty for small business to grow. For the past forty months, our nation’s unemployment rate has remained above eight percent. In order for our economy to strengthen and recover successfully, Congress must pass legislation encouraging job creation, rather than implementing policies that will stifle it. As a cosponsor of this legislation, I am proud to see it pass in the House of Representatives. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to vote in favor of this bill, which promotes job creation and economic growth.”
06.01.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this morning regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Since the President was sworn into office in January 2009, our national debt has grown by over five trillion dollars and over 320,000 hardworking Americans have lost their jobs. Instead of suggesting policies allowing small businesses to expand and create jobs, this Administration proposes more red tape and government restrictions. "The latest jobs report is another clear indication that the President’s policies are failing America and our economy. The fact that the unemployment rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in April shows that this Administration does not have what it takes to turn our economy around and put our nation back on the road to prosperity. More jobs must be created in order to protect our future generations from total economic and financial ruin. "In order for Americans to put their trust back in Washington, Congress and the President must work together to improve conditions to support economic, private-sector growth. Over the past year and a half, House Republicans have outlined a plan for America’s job creators by passing over thirty bipartisan, job-creating bills, most of which are stalled by the liberal-controlled Senate. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to take immediate action on these pieces of legislation, which create jobs and restore America’s faith in the federal government."
05.18.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4310, the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act. “This Administration has attacked the Department of Defense by attempting to cut its budget and shift funding to other programs to promote the President’s liberal agenda. I am thankful for the leadership of House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon, who has worked vigorously to prepare bipartisan legislation granting our Armed Forces, their families, and our veterans the care and support they need, deserve, and have earned. “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I am pleased this bill protects our Veterans from TRICARE enrollment fee increases. Those who have fought for our freedoms deserve these benefits and their service should be viewed as prepayment. Additionally, our brave men and women serving in uniform will be given a well-deserved 1.7% pay increase. By leaving their families and serving overseas, our troops have earned fair compensation. “In order for our troops to effectively keep American families safe, Congress must provide the Department of Defense the appropriate resources necessary to defend us from our enemies. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take immediate action on this legislation and protect those who protect us.”
05.10.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC) issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee completed the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013. “This Administration has placed a target on the Department of Defense as a source of discretionary spending to be cut in order to shift to other programs. Over the past few months, House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon has tirelessly worked to put together a bipartisan bill preventing the President’s suggested cuts from occurring while ensuring fiscal responsibility to protect those who serve, military families, and veterans. With the passage of this bill, as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I am pleased that the Committee has rejected the Administration’s proposal to unfairly increase TRICARE enrollment fees for veterans and their families. Our military families have dedicated their lives to serve our country and deserve the care they have earned. It is our responsibility to protect the brave men and women in uniform who have fought to protect us. Additionally, the bill provides leave time for our military personnel who choose to adopt a child. As an adoptive parent myself, I am familiar with the challenges the adoption process possess. I am encouraged to see that these individuals are given the same opportunity as those who have children naturally. I look forward to working with Chairman Buck McKeon and other colleagues to ensure the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act.”
05.10.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012. “The President’s decision to lower our growing national deficit by cutting the Department of Defense is irresponsible. Our primary responsibility as a governing body is to provide for a strong, superior national defense. If the sequester were to occur, our national defense capabilities would result in the smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915, and the smallest Air Force in our history. Not only would this cut leave our nation more vulnerable to our enemies, it also endangers our military personnel and their families. “Over the past three years, the President has contributed over five trillion dollars to our national debt, more than all previous presidents combined, by spending our hard-earned taxpayer dollars on unnecessary programs and increasing government involvement in our everyday lives. Today’s legislation attempts to regain fiscal responsibility while continuing to protect our national security. With the passage of this bill, House Republicans are sending a clear message to the Administration: We will not put our national security at risk by allowing the President to shift money away from the Department of Defense in order to advance his liberal agenda.”
05.04.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today regarding the latest unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “The latest jobs report marks the thirty-ninth consecutive month our nation’s unemployment rate has remained above eight percent. With the passage of the nearly one trillion-dollar stimulus plan, the President assured Americans that unemployment would not exceed eight percent. It is blatantly clear that the President’s failed policies are not working, but instead are contributing to our fifteen trillion-dollar debt. Americans are beyond frustrated with the President’s inability to support policies that will turn our nation’s hurting economy around. During the month of April alone, 342,000 discouraged people removed themselves from the work force and stopped looking for a job. If the labor force remained the same size as January 2009 when President Obama was sworn into office, our nation’s unemployment rate would rest at eleven percent. This fact is absolutely unacceptable. House Republicans have remained focused on stopping the President’s reckless spending and helping to put hardworking Americans back to work. We have passed dozens of job-creating bills, most with bi-partisan support, that remain stalled due to inaction by the liberal-controlled Senate. As more and more Americans are giving up on finding employment and losing faith in the government, I urge the President to encourage the Senate to pass legislation encouraging private sector growth which will put America back on the path to prosperity.”
04.26.2012	The Military Personnel subcommittee met today to mark up its portion of H.R. 4310, the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. Chairman Joe Wilson made the following opening statement: "The Chairman’s mark in front of you is the product of an open, bi-partisan process. "The mark provides our war fighters, veterans and their families the care and support they need, deserve, and have earned; while ensuring that proposed drawdown plans do not cut to the heart of the Army and Marine Corps. Specifically, this year's proposal will: (1) Authorize a troop pay increase of 1.7% and extend bonuses and special pay for our men and women in uniform; (2) Limit end strength reductions for the active Army and Marine Corps; (3) Provide significant new regulations and procedures for combating and prosecuting sexual assault within the military; (4) Extend access to family housing for six months and Commissary and Exchange benefits for two years for troops who are involuntarily separated; (5) Extend some TRICARE benefits to members of the Selected Reserve who are involuntarily separated. (6) Make clear that non-monitary contributions to health care benefits made by our troops and their families through a career of service to America represents pre-payment of health care premiums in retirement. "In conclusion, I want to thank Mrs. Davis and her staff for their contributions and support in this process. Of course, we are joined by an active, informed, and dedicated group of subcommittee members. Their recommendations and priorities are clearly reflected in this mark. "Additionally, I appreciate the dedication of the Subcommittee majority staff: John Chapla, Debra Wada, Jeanette James, Mike Higgins, Craig Greene, and Jim Weiss."
04.25.2012	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced H.R. 4625, the Yucca Utilization to Control Contamination Act (YUCCA). In 2002, President George W. Bush approved Yucca Mountain, Nevada, as the location for our nation’s nuclear repository, which was previously authorized by Congress in 1987. In 2010, President Obama zeroed out the funding for the project. The proposed legislation requires the President to certify Yucca Mountain as the designated site for our country’s high-level radioactive waste repository. If the Administration fails to follow through, it enacts the following penalties: 1) Utility Companies across the country will no longer be forced to make payments to the Nuclear Trust Fund. 2) The utility company will receive the deposits it has contributed to the Nuclear Trust Fund (75% of those funds will be used to reduce rates for ratepayers and 25% will be used for infrastructure improvement). 3) No later than January 1, 2017, Defense Waste MUST begin to be moved to Yucca Mountain. If this requirement is not met, the Department of Energy will be required to pay up to $100 million a year to the states holding the waste. Wilson stated, “Over the past twenty-nine years, South Carolinians have paid over $1.3 billion dollars for the establishment of a nuclear repository at Yucca Mountain, making our state the third highest contributor. The President’s decision to cut this project is another prime example of how this Administration continues to put party politics over sound policy. In efforts to keep the government accountable, I have introduced legislation requiring the President to follow through with the Yucca Mountain project. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure the people of South Carolina ?receive the services they have already paid for with hard-earned taxpayer dollars.”
04.20.2012	(West Columbia, SC) - Congressman Joe Wilson plans to join First Community Bank of Lexington on Monday morning and participate in the “Teach Children to Save Day” program. This program is a national campaign focused on the importance of teaching young people a lifelong savings habit. Since 1997, the Teach Children to Save program has brought saving education to more than five million young people across America. Studies have found that students with saving accounts are more likely to attend college than those without one. With a national unemployment rate of over eight percent for the past three years and a record debt of over fifteen trillion dollars, it is necessary for young people to learn how to become fiscally responsible at an early age. Monday, April 23, 2012 8-9AM Brookland-Cayce High School 1300 State Street Cayce, SC 29033
04.05.2012	This morning, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) hosted a roundtable with military, business, and community leaders to discuss the potential impacts of sequestration on South Carolina. Due to the passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011, the Department of Defense is expected to suffer an automatic $600 billion budget cut. These cuts will not be used to reduce our growing national deficit, but instead will be shifted from defense to other departments and agencies. “First of all, I would like to thank the tremendous leaders in our community for speaking today and expressing the impacts sequestration could have on each individual field within our economy. Because South Carolina has such a large military population, these budget cuts will put jobs at risk. In Fiscal Year 2013 alone, South Carolina could lose over $481 million in defense contracts, which will destroy thousands of jobs within the private sector. Additionally, if sequestration occurs, South Carolina’s military population may decline by almost 7,500 personnel. Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta has warned that such a drastic decrease will result in the smallest Navy since the beginning of World War I, smallest Army and Marine Corps since the beginning of World War II and the smallest Air Force in our nation’s history. “The national government’s number one priority should be to maintain a strong and secure national defense by providing peace through strength. House Armed Service Chairman Buck McKeon is committed to preventing these drastic defense cuts from taking place and has proposed legislation blocking the implementation of these reductions entitled the “Down Payment to Protect National Security Act of 2011” (H.R. 3662). As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, I look forward to working with Chairman McKeon to ensure this legislation passes the House of Representatives in order to protect our nation’s military capabilities and to keep our Armed Forces and their families secure.”
04.02.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced he will be hosting a roundtable discussion with military, business, and community leaders to discuss the potential impacts of sequestration on South Carolina. Due to the passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011, the Department of Defense is expected to suffer a $600 billion budget cut over the next ten years. Thursday, April 5, 2012 8am – 10:00AM Palmetto Room Greater Columbia Chamber of Commerce 930 Richland Street Columbia, SC 29202 Wilson has invited the following leaders to sit on the discussion panel: Mayor Stephen Benjamin, City of Columbia Donald Johnson, President, Johnson Food Services, LLC Major General Robert Livingston, USA, Adjutant General of South Carolina Richard Luber, President & CEO, Midlands Authority for Conventions Sports and Tourism Dan Mann, AAE, Executive Director, Columbia Metropolitan Airport Scott Nahrwold, Public Affairs, Fort Jackson Rick Patel, President, Hotel and Lodging Division, South Carolina Hospitality Association Milton Pope, Richland County Administrator Major General Abraham Turner, USA, Ret., Executive Director, South Carolina Department of Employment and Workforce *Congressman Wilson and the panel will be available for a question and answer session following the conclusion of the discussion.
03.29.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the passage of the Path to Prosperity, the House Republican Budget for Fiscal Year 2013, by a vote of 228-191. “The President’s policies are destroying jobs in America and making our economy much worse. Over the past three years, our national debt has grown by almost five trillion dollars. The President and his allies in the liberal-controlled Senate believe we must tax and spend our way to economic recovery, placing the burden of paying the bill on our children and grandchildren. It has been over 1,000 days since the Senate has passed a budget. With an unemployment rate of over eight percent for the past three years, it is absolutely necessary for Congress to work within a framework to ensure that our spending does not continue to spiral out of control. “Today, House Republicans passed a pro-growth, solution oriented budget. This legislation protects our entitlements from going bankrupt, repeals the government takeover healthcare bill, and enacts policies allowing for job creation. With this vote, conservatives proved once again we are committed to stopping Washington’s out of control spending and putting our country back on a path to prosperity. “
03.22.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 5, the Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act, a bill that repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board which was included in the government takeover healthcare bill: “Every American deserves the freedom to make his or her own choices regarding healthcare. Today, House Republicans voted to eliminate the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a rationing panel consisting of fifteen unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats who will be responsible for making major cuts to Medicare in order to meet a budget. These cuts are likely to severely impact seniors’ access to treatments and further erode the doctor-patient relationship. As a proud cosponsor of this legislation, I am proud to see this bill pass the House of Representatives. Today’s vote marks the 26th vote Congress has taken to abolish ObamaCare. It is past the time for the government healthcare takeover bill to be completely repealed.“
03.09.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement regarding the latest unemployment report issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics this morning: “For the past three years, our nation’s unemployment has remained above eight percent. Almost one million Americans have lost their jobs since the President was sworn into office. According to recent Congressional Budget Office study, when considering every American who is currently without a job, our actual unemployment rate is 15.2 percent. The President promised that with the passage of his failed stimulus package in February 2009, the unemployment rate would not exceed eight percent. It is clear that the President’s failed policies and broken promises are not helping Americans find employment, but simply growing our national debt. “Over the past year, House Republicans have passed dozens of job creating bills, most with bipartisan support. A majority of these pieces of legislation remain stalled in the Senate. Just yesterday, the House passed the JOBS Act, a collection of legislation that will help small business startups grow and expand, which will lead to job creation. It is my hope that the liberal-controlled Senate will take immediate action on the pending legislation in efforts to spur economic growth. It is past the time for Congress to work together to offset the failed policies the President has implemented and help put Americans back to work.”
03.02.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the Department of Energy announced the decision to bring small modular nuclear reactor technology to the Savannah River Site in Aiken, SC: "The Savannah River Site (SRS) plays a vital role not only in the Aiken-Barnwell community, but also on a national level as it enables the United States to honor its international nuclear nonproliferation commitments. I am pleased by the Department of Energy's decision to develop the technology for small modular nuclear reactors (SMR) at the Site. At a time when gas prices are at an all time high and American families are increasingly facing tough choices, commonsense measures such as using existing government facilities and technical expertise for developing SMR’s are welcome. I would like to congratulate Dwayne Wilson and his team at Savannah River Nuclear Solutions (SRNS) and I am very proud of Dr. Dave Moody's efforts in creating such a fitting environment to host this technological advancement at no new cost to the taxpayer. The local community and I will continue to support SRS leaders and their vision for Enterprise SRS. Not only will this decision create immediate jobs in South Carolina by bringing additional missions to SRS, it also provides an opportunity for our state to serve as a testing ground for an efficient nuclear technology source. I am optimistic that the successful development of this cutting-edge technology at the Site will directly correlate to an emerging presence of SMR industrial facilities within the Palmetto State."
02.16.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement following the passage of H.R. 3408, the Protecting Investment in Oil Shale the Next Generation of Environmental, Energy and Resource Security (PIONEERS) Act, a bill that creates jobs and promotes an all-of-the-above energy policy: “Our nation has a vast supply of energy resources, which have yet to be developed. At a time when Americans are paying higher prices at the pump, the President should support the exploration of American resources, enacting policies that will decrease our dependence of foreign oil. Due to the recent decision to delay the Keystone XL Pipeline project, it remains clear that the President’s failed policies are marking our economy much worse. “In sharp contrast to the Administration’s actions, House Republicans are committed to an all-of-the-above energy policy which will promote job creation through private sector growth. The passage of the PIONEERS Act will grant the ability to move forward with the Keystone XL Pipeline, a project that will create over 100,000 jobs and lay the groundwork for American energy independence. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take immediate action on this legislation, as well as the dozens of other job creation bills which have been passed in the House with bi-partisan support, and help put American families back to work.”
01.26.2012	House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta announced implementation of the Administration’s new defense strategy:“Today, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta revealed how he plans to cut $47 billion dollars from next year’s Department of Defense’s budget. By cutting our military personnel by 100,000 troops, 80,000 Army soldiers and 20,000 Marines, the President is weakening our military’s strength by limiting our Armed Forces’ ability and threatening our national security. This decision by the President and his Administration is another prime example of how he continues to lead from behind. Throughout our nation’s history, we have learned the severe consequences of downsizing our military. “Our military service members and their families sacrifice a great deal for this country. As a Congressional body, it is our duty to provide for a strong defense and protect those who fight to protect our nation. Throughout the next few weeks, I look forward to working with House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon, and finding way to stop the execution of these drastic cuts which will decimate our military capabilities and threaten the security of the men and women in our armed forces.“
01.24.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered the State of the Union Address: “Despite the President’s failed stimulus, for the past thirty-five months, our nation’s unemployment rate has remained above eight percent. With over thirteen million Americans searching for employment and a national debt totaling more than fifteen trillion dollars, I had hoped the President would highlight sound ideas to promote job creation and allow for private sector growth during his speech this evening. “Instead of focusing on ways to stop Washington’s out of control spending and create jobs, the President plans to impose higher taxes on hardworking Americans, threatening more of our nation’s jobs. The President’s decision to delay the Keystone Pipeline, a shovel-ready project that will add 120,000 jobs to our economy without costing taxpayers a single dime, threatens jobs in Lexington at Michelin Automotive and in Aiken at MTU Detroit Diesel. “House Republicans have sent more than thirty bipartisan bills to the Senate, where twenty-seven of them are awaiting action. It is my hope that the President and the liberal Senate will echo the initiatives of House Republicans and find ways to work together to help restore the American people’s faith in government by putting American families back to work.
01.05.2012	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement in response to release of the President’s new defense strategy: “The President’s defense strategy is another prime example of how this Administration continues to offer policies which are damaging our country and its defense. Instead of working with Congress to help prevent these drastic cuts, the President’s new strategy will slash our military personnel by 10-15 percent over the next ten years, which will harm the men and women in our Armed Forces, military families, and veterans. National defense is the primary function of the federal government. Defense spending is at its lowest percentage of the budget in decades at less than 18 percent. These cuts will decimate the military and leave America vulnerable to enemies who are determined to destroy our families and allies, such as Israel. “I believe that we owe our men and women in uniform and their families a debt of gratitude for their service over a decade of war. We owe them a military that can provide peace through strength instead of risking our national security due to a weakened military capability. I am very concerned about these defense cuts and look forward to working with Chairman Buck McKeon and other members of the House Armed Services Committee to find a solution so that these devastating cuts do not take effect.”
12.20.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement regarding the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance reforms, and Medicare physician payments: “Last week, House Republicans successfully passed a bipartisan bill that protects American taxpayers and promotes job creation by extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance reforms for one year, while providing Medicare payments to physicians for two years. On Saturday, the Senate amended this legislation to provide only for a two month quick fix, kicking the can further down the road, which will harm American taxpayers and small business owners. “It is necessary for both houses of Congress to work together to extend the payroll tax cut for an entire year. Today, House Republicans created a Conference committee to reach an agreement and resolve this time sensitive issue. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take immediate action and work with House Republicans to protect the millions of American taxpayers and doctors who will be negatively affected if this legislation is not extended for a complete year.”
12.09.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement after the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) announced it has withdrawn the case against Boeing: “For the past year, the President’s National Labor Relations Board has played the role of a Big Labor Bully by threatening to cut the jobs of hardworking and deserving South Carolinians by stalling the expansion of the 787 Dreamliner project in Charleston. I am very pleased to see that the International Association of Machinists requested to withdraw its complaint against Boeing and that the NLRB approved their request. “Boeing chose to locate to South Carolina due to its welcoming business climate due in large part to its right-to-work laws. Instead of focusing on ways to promote the influence of unions in our nation’s workforce, I urge the current Administration to enact policies protecting the rights of workers and allowing for growth in our private sector through job creation.”
12.02.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in response to the November jobs report released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics: “For the past two and a half years, our nation’s unemployment rate has consistently remained at or above eight percent. This is unacceptable. It is absolutely necessary for Congress and the President to work together to promote job creation and ways to remove barriers to allow for private-sector growth. House Republicans have remained focused on job creation, making the issue our number one priority. Since January, the House has passed over 25 jobs bills with bi-partisan support, 20 of which are still stalled in the Senate. I urge Senate Democrats to take action on these bills and give American families what they deserve: A Job.”
11.21.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced he will be hosting a town hall meeting in South Carolina's Second Congressional District to focus on job creation and ways to remove barriers to allow for private-sector growth. Wilson invites all residents of the Second Congressional District to attend the meeting next week. Tuesday, November 22nd @ 6PM Forest Acres City Hall 5205 North Trenholm Road Columbia, SC 29206
11.18.2011	Joe Wilson released the following statement in celebration of the 12th anniversary of National Adoption Day which will be observed on Saturday, November 19th, 2011: “This Saturday, the judicial system will finalize the adoptions of thousands of children in over 400 communities nationwide. With over 107,000 foster children living in the United States, it is an encouragement to see that many of these deserving children will be given the loving family and home he or she needs. “As an adoptive parent myself, I am familiar with the challenges and rewards adoption poses. The adoption process can be exhausting and overwhelming. As an elected official, it is my responsibility to provide for the betterment of the people of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina and all Americans. While serving in Congress, I have fought for tax credits to help other adoptive parents provide financially for their growing families. The desire to see children grow up in healthy, happy environments with loving parents knows no boundaries.”
11.18.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after today's vote on the Balanced Budget Amendment: "Earlier today, Congress voted on a Balanced Budget Amendment, an amendment to the Constitution that would bring accountability and fiscal responsibility back to the federal government. Under the current President, our national debt has increased at thirty-four percent and grown to almost $15 trillion dollars while our unemployment rate has remained over eight percent for two years. With the federal government borrowing forty-two cents for every dollar it spends, it is past the time to take action for a balanced budget. "A majority of Americans are supportive of a Balanced Budget Amendment. I am disappointed that Democrats chose to oppose this commonsense reform which would put a stop to Washington’s out of control spending."
11.15.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after attending a press conference with House Republicans in response to the Administration’s announcement to postpone the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Once again, the decision to delay the Keystone XL Pipeline until 2013 is yet another prime example of how out of touch this Administration remains with the needs of so many unemployed American workers. “Last month, I was fortunate enough to visit Alberta, Canada, and witnessed first-hand the Canadian oil sands and the positive impact that exploration has for the American people. The construction of this project will create 120,000 new jobs, without costing taxpayers a dime, and help stimulate our economy. “With more than 14 million Americans still unemployed, I urge the President to put party politics aside, reconsider this decision, and begin focusing on putting American’s back to work and promoting small business job creation.”
11.11.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel released the following statement in appreciation of our Nation’s veterans. “Every year on Veterans Day, we are reminded how blessed our nation is by our Armed Forces. As a 31-year veteran, as well as a proud father of four sons serving in the military, I know first hand the sacrifices these dedicated individuals and their families have made for this country. “Due to the strong military presence in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina with Fort Jackson in Columbia, Parris Island in the Lowcountry, and the Marine Corps Air Station and Naval Hospital in Beaufort, I am extremely grateful for the selfless service and sacrifice of the brave men and women and their families in the Armed Services on this holiday. I encourage all South Carolinians to give them the utmost gratitude for serving to defend America’s citizens and maintain our national security.”
11.04.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its October jobs report. The unemployment rate remains at an unacceptable 9.0% as the economy created 80,000 jobs: “Yet again, this Administration has shown it remains out of touch with American families. More than 14 million Americans are unemployed. Last month, the President embarked on a national campaign to promote his so-called jobs plan, a plan that even liberals in the Senate have rejected three times. “By passing twenty jobs bills, House Republicans continue to focus on job creation. I urge Senate Democrats to take action on these bills that will allow American families to get back to work.”
11.02.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Sensor Electronic Technology, Inc. (SETi) announced plans to retrofit its existing facility while expanding operations and creating new jobs in the Midlands; “I am excited to see SETi increase their presence in Richland County by creating 150 new jobs. The expansion includes upgrading existing facilities and the purchase of new property with capital investments of over $20 million dollars. This news is welcomed as the new 5,000 square foot additions will serve as the company’s research and development center. “SETi’s success has allowed for the creation of more jobs in South Carolina. I am proud to have companies like it grow and expand in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina.”
11.01.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson released the following statement after hiring Caroline Delleney as his new Communications Director: “Caroline has been part of our team for three years. I am excited to have her as a Communications Director.”
10.27.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representative voted to repeal H.R. 674, the 3 percent withholding tax aimed to be implemented in January of 2013: “I am proud to see the House of Representatives making bi-partisan efforts to remove barriers that hurt America’s job creators. This legislation repeals the 3% withholding tax on businesses that provide services to federal, state and local governments. The tax would only lead to more uncertainty for small businesses that are already facing a tough economic climate. By repealing this tax, American job creators will now have more money to hire workers and expand their businesses.”
10.27.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) approved the use of the H-Canyon Complex to provide approximately 3.7 metric tons of plutonium oxide feed for the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility from the non-pit plutonium currently stored at the Savannah River Site (SRS): “I applaud NNSA Administrator Tom D'Agostino’s announcement to utilize the unique and versatile capabilities at H-Canyon, and I am pleased to see this facility has remained a priority for the Department of Energy. Because of this decision, jobs have been protected. H-Canyon is the only facility of its kind in the nation, and this is a testament to its importance. For decades, the H-Canyon facility, including HB-Line, has proven to be an effective and valuable asset for safely processing legacy nuclear materials. “I would also like to thank the efforts of those employees working at H-Canyon. Their legacy of commitment is greatly appreciated, and I am proud of them. Historically, they have always answered the call when this nation has asked them to respond.” According to the NNSA, this decision will result in the retention of approximately 90 critical H-Canyon/HB-Line staff. H-Canyon and HB-Line will initiate start-up preparations for plutonium oxide production in FY 2012, and will ramp up to a full production rate of up to 1 metric ton per year in FY 2015.
10.26.2011	Representative Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after co-sponsoring H.R. 3000, the Empowering Patients First Act: “This legislation will not only repeal the President’s health care reform law but it will also replace it with patient-centered solutions. This is a viable solution in providing accessible and affordable health care to American families. The Empowering Patients First Act would also address key issues such as pre-existing illnesses and lawsuit abuse reform. House Republicans will not stop in our efforts to repeal the President’s health care law while making lasting reforms that ensure the government does not interfere with the relationships patients have with their doctors.” The Empowering Patients First Act is sponsored by Congressman Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA): “Rather than greater power and faith in government, the Empowering Patients First Act believes in patients and their doctors. It ensures that individuals maintain control of their health care decisions. Patient-centered, positive solutions are at the core of moving our nation in the right direction. This bill does just that.” The Empowering Patients First Act: · Makes the purchase of health coverage financially feasible for all Americans, covers pre-existing conditions, protects employer-sponsored insurance, and shines light on existing health care plans. · Grants more choices and portability to the patient and also gives employers more flexibility in the benefits offered. It also expands the individual market by creating several pooling mechanisms. · Since physicians know the best care for their patient, this legislation establishes doctor-led quality measures, ensuring that patients receive quality care. It encourages healthier lifestyles by allowing employers more flexibility to offer discounts for healthy habits through wellness and prevention programs. · Reins in out-of-control costs by reforming the medical liability system. · Offsets the cost of the plan through decreasing defensive medicine, savings from health care efficiencies, sifting out waste, fraud and abuse, and bringing the nation’s budget under control.
10.19.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after NK Newlook, a manufacturer of fixtures and retail interiors, announced it will be locating a manufacturing and distribution center in Barnwell County: “The welcoming South Carolina business climate attracted another large manufacturing investment that will bring over 212 new jobs to the Barnwell area. NK Newlook will invest $5 million to establish operations in Blackville. Once again, this proves that South Carolina continues to appeal to manufacturers and large employers because of its talented and capable workforce. “I would like to thank Marty Martin, Executive Director of the Barnwell County Economic Development Commission, Danny Black of the Southern Carolina Alliance, Barnwell County Council Chairman Travis Black, and all the local and state officials involved with bringing jobs to the Second Congressional District of South Carolina.”
10.07.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement marking the 10th anniversary of the War in Afghanistan: As we mark the 10th anniversary of the War in Afghanistan, I honor the commitment and dedication of our Armed Forces. Because of the continued efforts and sacrifice of our brave men and women in the military, Afghanistan is a better place. “I would also like to take this moment to recognize the leadership of General David Petraeus and Marine General John Allen. Their leadership and resolve have proven to be vital in this mission. I offer my heartfelt gratitude and solace to the families of those that have been lost. I know their loved ones will never return, but I believe they may take comfort in knowing their ultimate sacrifice is truly appreciated by present and future generations of Americans. “While there is still much more to be done to ensure Afghanis have a competent and fair government along with adequate security from terrorist forces, we can be proud Americans have helped to provide the opportunity for democracy to be established.”
10.05.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline (R-MN) introduced the Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act, H.R 3094. This Act was introduced in response to the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) recent action to rush union elections while empowering union bosses to manipulate the workplace to further their special interests: “Once again, the NLRB is making no secret that it favors union bosses over the rights of workers and employers. In South Carolina more than 85 percent of voters chose ‘yes’ on an amendment to give employees the constitutional right to vote by secret ballot on union representation. The NLRB’s actions are an insult not only to the voters of the Palmetto State but to voters all across the country. “As an original cosponsor of this legislation, I am proud to stand up against the powerful unions and their leaders. This legislation ensures employers are able to participate in a fair union election process. It helps workers make an informed choice. Best of all, it safeguards the privacy of workers. In Right-to-Work states like South Carolina, workers are protected, new jobs are created, and the votes of all citizens are respected. This legislation prevents the NLRB from ending such freedoms in the workplace.”
09.23.2011	The House Armed Services Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee and Military Personnel Subcommittee held a joint hearing today on “Update on Arlington Cemetery Reforms,” following the Report to Congress released earlier in the week. Chairman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks: “Today, the Military Personnel Subcommittee and the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee are jointly hosting a hearing on the recent report to Congress by the Secretary of the Army, who has responsibility for the management of Arlington National Cemetery. That report details the progress that has been made since June 2010 to address the numerous, serious shortcomings found in the previous oversight and administration of the Cemetery. “The Secretary’s report is based on the findings of an inspection conducted by the Department of the Army Inspector General. Overall, there is clear evidence that substantial improvements have taken place at Arlington. That progress reflects not only the personal commitment of Secretary John McHugh, but also the professionalism and commitment of Mrs. Katherine Condon, the Executive Director of the Army National Cemeteries Program, and Mr. Patrick Hallinan, the Superintendent of Arlington Cemetery. “While great strides have been made, much still remains to be done. My focus in this hearing will be on where we go from here. I am especially concerned about the Inspector General findings that the wait time for burials is substantially longer than previously reported. We need to find an appropriate way soon to reduce that waiting time. “Before I introduce our witnesses, let me recognize, in turn, Representatives Susan Davis, the Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, Rob Wittman, Chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Jim Cooper, the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee for any opening remarks that they might wish to make. “Today we will hear first from Major General William McCoy, Deputy Inspector General, U. S. Army, to be followed by Ms. Kathryn Condon, Executive Director of the Army’s National Cemeteries Program. Ms. Condon is accompanied by Mr. Patrick Hallinan, Superintendent of Arlington National Cemetery. “Before I recognize our first witness, I ask unanimous consent that a statement from the American Legion be entered into the record.” “I also welcome Representative Jon Runyan, a member of this committee, who is the chairman of the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs of the House Veterans Affairs Committee. His subcommittee also has oversight of Arlington National Cemetery.”
09.23.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) has announced a tour of the Second Congressional District beginning on Monday, September 26, 2011. Media availability is denoted by *: 2011 Wilson District Tour Schedule Monday, September 26 8:00 a.m.* Lizard's Thicket (4616 Augusta Highway, Lexington) 9:45 a.m. Swansea High School (500 East 1st Street, Swansea) 11:30 a.m.* Shealy’s BBQ (340 East Columbia Avenue, Batesburg-Leesville) 1:15 p.m. Tours of All South and Palmetto Citizens Credit Unions (North Lake Drive, Lexington) 3:00 p.m. Tour of Lexington Medical Center Irmo Urgent Care (7035 St. Andrews Road, Columbia) 4:30 p.m. Meet and Greet at Wal-Mart (1180 Dutch Fork Road, Irmo) 6:00 p.m.* Town Hall at Town of Lexington Town Hall (111 Maiden Lane, Lexington) Tuesday, September 27 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Fort Jackson (Columbia) 9:30 a.m.* Tour of Crossroads Middle School (6949 St. Andrews Road, Columbia) 11:30 a.m. Tour of FN Manufacturing (797 Old Clemson Road, Columbia) 1:30 p.m. Tour of University of South Carolina – Discovery and Osborne Buildings (Columbia) 3:30 p.m. Tour of Concept Unlimited (10020 Farrow Road, Columbia) 4:45 p.m. Tour of Coca-Cola Dealership (1001 Northpoint Boulevard, Blythewood) Wednesday, September 28 8:00 a.m.* Auten's Restaurant breakfast with local elected officials (969 Pine Log Road, Aiken) 9:30 a.m. Tour of Savannah River Site (Aiken) 2:30 p.m.* Tour of Barnwell Hospital (811 Reynolds Road, Barnwell) Thursday, September 29 8:45 a.m.* WDOG 93.5FM radio station (2447 Augusta Highway, Allendale) 11:00 a.m.* Tour of Daniel Defense (58 Firefly Drive, Ridgeland) 12:00 p.m.* Jasper’s Porch Restaurant (153 James L. Taylor Road, Ridgeland) 3:00 p.m. Roundtable with Hilton Head Island Chamber of Commerce Business Leaders (Hilton Head Island) Friday, September 30 8:30 a.m.* Blackstone’s (205 Scott Street, Beaufort)
09.21.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Bridgestone Americas Inc. announced it will continue to build its presence in South Carolina with another commitment to expand operations in Aiken County. The $1.2 billion investment will create 850 jobs, expand current facilities by 474,000 feet, and include the construction of a brand new 1.5 million square foot manufacturing facility in Aiken County: “This is the second time in less than three months Bridgestone has announced it will be making large investments in its manufacturing operations in the Palmetto State. Bridgestone’s commitment to not only expand but also build a brand new state-of-the art facility in Aiken County speaks volumes as to the abilities of the workforce in South Carolina. Additional investments like these prove yet again why South Carolina is an ideal location for many large scale job creators to operate. “I would like to thank the efforts made by the leadership of Bridgestone Americas Inc. in partnership with local and state officials to make this a reality. The work of Bobby Hitt, South Carolina Secretary of Commerce, along with Fred Humes, Director Emeritus of Economic Development Partnership, David Jameson, President of the Greater Aiken Chamber of Commerce, and John Stewart, of Bridgestone Americas Inc., should not be overlooked. This announcement shows that local leaders play an instrumental role in bringing jobs to our communities.”
09.21.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) has announced a tour of the Second Congressional District beginning on Monday, September 26, 2011. Media availability is denoted by *: 2011 Wilson District Tour Schedule Monday, September 26 8:00 a.m.* Lizard's Thicket (4616 Augusta Highway, Lexington) 9:45 a.m. Swansea High School (500 East 1st Street, Swansea) 11:30 a.m.* Shealy’s BBQ (340 East Columbia Avenue, Batesburg-Leesville) 1:15 p.m. Tours of All South and Palmetto Citizens Credit Unions (North Lake Drive, Lexington) 3:00 p.m. Tour of Lexington Medical Center Irmo Urgent Care (7035 St. Andrews Road, Columbia) 4:30 p.m. Meet and Greet at Wal-Mart (1180 Dutch Fork Road, Irmo) 6:00 p.m.* Town Hall at Town of Lexington Town Hall (111 Maiden Lane, Lexington) Tuesday, September 27 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Fort Jackson (Columbia) 9:30 a.m.* Tour of Crossroads Middle School (6949 St. Andrews Road, Columbia) 11:30 a.m. Tour of FN Manufacturing (797 Old Clemson Road, Clemson) 1:30 p.m. Tour of University of South Carolina – Discovery and Osborne Buildings (Columbia) 3:30 p.m. Tour of Concept Unlimited (10020 Farrow Road, Columbia) 4:45 p.m. Tour of Coca-Cola Dealership (1001 Northpoint Boulevard, Blythewood) Wednesday, September 28 8:00 a.m.* Auten's Restaurant breakfast with local elected officials (969 Pine Log Road, Aiken) 9:30 a.m. Tour of Savannah River Site (Aiken) 2:30 p.m.* Tour of Barnwell Hospital (811 Reynolds Road, Barnwell) Thursday, September 29 8:45 a.m.* WDOG 93.5FM radio station (2447 Augusta Highway, Allendale) 11:00 a.m.* Tour of Daniel Defense (58 Firefly Drive, Ridgeland) 12:00 p.m.* Jasper’s Porch Restaurant (153 James L. Taylor Road, Ridgeland) 3:00 p.m. Roundtable with Hilton Head Island Chamber of Commerce Business Leaders (Hilton Head Island) Friday, September 30 8:30 a.m.* Blackstone’s (205 Scott Street, Beaufort)
09.15.2011	Legislation introduced by Congressman Tim Scott, the Protecting Jobs From Government Interference Act (H.R. 2587), was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today as the first strike in House Republicans’ efforts to roll back burdensome government regulations. The legislation, which was co-sponsored by Representatives Trey Gowdy and Joe Wilson of South Carolina, passed by a bipartisan margin of 238-186 and would prevent the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from dictating the location of American jobs. “Today’s vote is important for our entire nation, as well as for my home district in South Carolina, where the NLRB is currently pursuing an agenda which, if successful, would kill thousands of jobs,” Scott said. “By removing the NLRB’s ability to dictate where private industry creates jobs, we are preventing an unelected, Presidentially-appointed government board from pitting state against state, inserting themselves into the business decisions of private companies, and scaring away investment in our nation.” Rep. Gowdy reinforced his position, “This bill keeps the NLRB from imposing the ‘economic death penalty’ on businesses. The NLRB has lost all pretense of objectivity and desperately needs to be reined in.” Congressman Wilson stated, “This legislation creates a climate that promotes job growth and job creation. Organizations like the NLRB should not be allowed to dictate where private businesses can and cannot choose to create jobs in the United States. This bill protects the right of private businesses across the nation to promote job growth while acting in the best interest of their workers and shareholders.” Scott added, “A former Chairman of the NLRB recently testified that Canadian firms have already expressed concern about doing business in the United States because of the NLRB’s recent actions taken against Boeing, crystallizing the potential effects if the NLRB is able to proceed. I hope the President takes this legislation seriously and instead of continuing to offer favors to his union campaign supporters, puts the American people first and asks the Senate to pass the Protecting Jobs From Government Interference Act as soon as possible.” Specifically, H.R. 2587 will amend the National Labor Relations Act to prohibit the NLRB from ordering any employer to relocate, shut down, or transfer employment under any circumstance beginning with the date of the bill’s passage. This will include cases which have not reached final adjudication. The NLRB would still have more than a dozen remedies at their disposal should they find a violation.
09.12.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) recently unveiled a new page on the website for the Second Congressional District of South Carolina where constituent input is being solicited on how to reduce the national debt. The suggestions will then be presented directly to the recently formed Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction: “Tomorrow, the newly created Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction will conduct its first hearing. The 12-member bipartisan panel is tasked with finding ways to reduce the nation’s deficit by at least $1.2 trillion over the next decade. “This new page provides an avenue for constituents in the Second Congressional District to have their voice heard by the recently created ‘Super Committee.’ The non-partisan Congressional Budget office projects a $1.3 trillion deficit for this year. I would like to encourage constituents to get involved by going online and bringing attention to areas where this Committee can begin to cut the deficit. ” The new page dedicated to soliciting input from constituents on how to reduce the national deficit may be visited by click here.
09.09.2011	“Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony on the efforts by the Department of Defense and the military services to prevent suicide by service members, family members and civilian employees. “I want to preface my statement by recognizing the tremendous work the Department of Defense and the service leadership has done to respond to the disturbing trend of suicide in our armed forces. I understand this has not been an easy task and I thank you for your hard work. I particularly see military service as opportunity to be all you can be and I want service members to know they are talented people who are important and appreciated by the American people. They can overcome challenges. “I am also grateful for Ranking Member Susan Davis’s work she did as Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee to bring attention to psychological stress in the military and the behavioral health needs of service members. With that said, clearly there is more work to be done. “Suicide is a difficult topic to discuss. Every suicide is a tragedy but suicide by members of our military is even more difficult because they have given so much to this nation. “Ultimately, it is an individual decision to take one’s own life. But we must make sure every opportunity to redirect or change that decision is available before it’s too late. “Suicide is a multi-faceted phenomenon that is not unique to the military. Unfortunately, in addition to the unique hardships of military service, our service members are subject to the same pressures that plague the rest of society today. They are exposed to the same stressors, such as the current unemployment and economic situation that may lead to suicide by their civilian counterparts. I am very concerned these stressors will only get worse in the coming months as debate regarding cuts to the Defense Department budget intensifies. “Each of the military services and the Department of Defense has adopted strategies to reduce suicide by our troops. I would like to hear from our witnesses whether those strategies are working. What are your benchmarks for success? How do you determine whether your programs incorporate the latest research and information on suicide prevention? I am also interested to know how Congress can further help and support your efforts.”
09.08.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after President Obama’s addressed a joint session of Congress this evening regarding the Administration’s jobs program: “The past months have brought difficult times for American families: a downgrading of the country’s credit rating, an extremely volatile stock market, sinking consumer confidence in the economy, and dismal jobs reports. With more than 1.7 million jobs lost since the Administration’s last failed stimulus in February of 2009, I find it disappointing the President has waited this long to introduce a jobs program. “Unemployment remains at 9.1% with a net gain of zero jobs last month. Tonight, President Obama stated he wants to use another $447 billion taxpayer funded stimulus to launch his jobs program. The Administration’s last stimulus plan added $814 billion to our national debt. More importantly, it failed to accomplish its goal. The unemployment rate ballooned past the 8% mark the Administration promised the stimulus was designed to prevent. Employing this same failed approach will not only add to our nation’s debt but will also fail to provide a long term solution to America’s high unemployment rate. “By passing numerous job promoting bills designed to encourage small businesses to hire and help with job creation, House Republicans have shown their commitment to jump starting the nation’s economy this Congress. Now is the time for Senate Democrats and the President to really help families who want jobs. Let us work together to adopt real reforms that will have an immediate impact on job creation.”
09.02.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its August jobs report. The unemployment rate remained at 9.1% as the economy showed no net gain of new jobs: “Yet again, the jobs report is dismal. Out-of-control spending coupled with failed stimulus plans have proven to do nothing to address the unemployment rate in America. These political gimmicks have only left our nation with empty promises coupled with larger deficits and debts. “On Thursday, the White House announced it believed 9.0% unemployment rate would be sustained through 2012. This after the President’s 2011 budget will top $1 trillion for the third consecutive year. This is not sound economic policy. It is time for this Administration to focus on job creation instead of running up deficits. “From encouraging entrepreneurship and growth to revamping the tax code to empowering small businesses to cutting government spending, House Republicans have proposed numerous jobs creation bills to enable hiring. Legislation targeted to attack our nation’s unemployment rate will remain the number one priority in the House. House Republicans remain committed to addressing the dire economic situation facing families across the country.”
08.21.2011	Due to his recent possible contraction of Lyme disease, Congressman Wilson will be postponing the annual Second Congressional District Tour until the week of September 26th-30th. The town hall scheduled for August 22 in Chapin will be rescheduled until the week of September 26th-30th as well.
08.18.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) has announced a tour of the Second Congressional District beginning on Monday, August 22, 2011. Media availability is denoted by *: 2011 Wilson District Tour Schedule Monday, August 22 8:00 a.m.* Lizard's Thicket (4616 Augusta Highway, Lexington) 9:45 a.m. Swansea High School (500 East 1st Street, Swansea) 11:30 a.m.* Shealy’s BBQ (340 East Columbia Avenue, Batesburg-Leesville) 1:15 p.m. Tours of All South and Palmetto Citizens Credit Unions (North Lake Drive, Lexington) 3:00 p.m. Tour of Lexington Medical Center Irmo Urgent Care (7035 St. Andrews Road, Columbia) 4:30 p.m. Meet and Greet at Wal-Mart (1180 Dutch Fork Road, Irmo) 6:00 p.m.* Town Hall at Chapin High School (300 Columbia Avenue, Chapin) Tuesday, August 23 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Fort Jackson (Columbia) 9:30 a.m.* Tour of Crossroads Middle School (6949 St. Andrews Road, Columbia) 10:45 a.m. Tour of FN Manufacturing (797 Old Clemson Road, Columbia) 11:30 a.m. Tour of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of South Carolina (I-20 and Alpine Road, Columbia) 1:30 p.m.* Tour of University of South Carolina – INNOVISTA (Greene and Park Streets, Columbia) 3:30 p.m. Tour of Concept Unlimited (10020 Farrow Road, Columbia) 4:45 p.m. Tour of Coca-Cola Dealership (1001 Northpoint Boulevard, Blythewood) 6:00 p.m. Lexington Medical Center Foundation (Doubletree Hotel and Convention Center, Columbia) Wednesday, August 24 8:00 a.m.* Auten's Restaurant breakfast with local elected officials (969 Pine Log Road, Aiken) 9:30 a.m. Tour of Savannah River Site (Aiken) 2:30 p.m.* Tour of Barnwell Hospital (811 Reynolds Road, Barnwell) 4:30 p.m.* Business Roundtable and tour of SCE&G Cope Station (5733 Memorial Boulevard, Orangeburg) Thursday, August 25 8:45 a.m.* WDOG 93.5FM radio station (2447 Augusta Highway, Allendale) 11:00 a.m. Tour of Daniel Defense (58 Firefly Drive, Ridgeland) 12:00 p.m.* Jasper’s Porch Restaurant (153 James L. Taylor Road, Ridgeland) 3:00 p.m. Roundtable with Hilton Head Island Chamber of Commerce Business Leaders (Hilton Head Island) Friday, August 26 8:00 a.m.* Blackstone’s (205 Scott Street, Beaufort) 9:45 a.m.* Tour of Hunting Island (2555 Sea Island Parkway, Hunting Island) 7:30 p.m.* Airport High School football game (1315 Boston Avenue, West Columbia)
08.01.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after he voted against passing the latest version of the “Budget Control Act of 2011” today: “No legislation will present a perfect solution to solve our nation’s debt problems. Of all the plans introduced in the past days to tackle our out of control debt, I still believe the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011 provides the best solution for our nation’s current fiscal situation.”
07.30.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives failed to pass H.R. 2693, Senator Harry Reid’s “Budget Control Act of 2011” earlier today: “The Reid plan does nothing to address Washington’s out of control spending. Rather, it issues a blank check to the President by immediately increasing the debt limit by the amount the Administration is seeking. Furthermore, this plan would adversely affect our military by slashing funding by $868 billion over the next ten years. “Americans have had enough with the budget gimmicks and shell games presented by leaders in the Senate and the current Administration. Time is running out. American does not need a balanced approach, it needs a balanced budget.”
07.29.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Budget Control Act: “Washington is broken and we need to stop its out-of-control spending. Due to the inaction of both Democrats in the Senate and the current Administration, our nation’s debt ceiling is now at a critical juncture. This past November, Americans made it clear they expect their elected leaders to make meaningful fiscal reforms today so as to not burden future generations with crushing deficits and debts tomorrow. “Holding Washington accountable for its spending is the solution I support. Last week, I praised Speaker John Boehner for passing the plan best suited for such a solution: the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011.”
07.20.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following statement after becoming an original co-sponsor of the Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act. The Act was introduced by Congressman Tim Scott (R-SC) and co-sponsored by Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline (R-MN), Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions Chairman Phil Roe (R-TN), and Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-SC). This legislation will prohibit the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from overreaching its authority by directing private businesses as to where they can and cannot choose to create jobs in the United States: “Recently, the NLRB has done its best to play the role of Big Labor’s faithful friend in Washington. It is truly a shame that legislation must be created to counter the activist agenda of the job killing NLRB. However, I refuse to stand on the sidelines and silently watch as job creators across America, specifically in my home state of South Carolina, are being subjected to the bullying of unelected bureaucrats. “The Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act ensures private businesses across the nation will be able to make decisions based on the best interests of their shareholders and workers. At a time when over 14 million Americans are without work, the government should not be creating policies that interfere with job growth and job creation.” Under current law, the NLRB has more than a dozen remedies at its disposal to hold employers accountable for unlawful labor practices, including the authority to order a private company to relocate or transfer existing or planned employment. The legislation amends the National Labor Relations Act to prohibit the NLRB from ordering any employer to relocate, shut down, or transfer employment under any circumstance. Further, upon enactment, the limitation on the NLRB’s authority will apply to all cases that have not reached final adjudication before the board.
07.20.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations announced it would be investing an additional $135 million to expand operations in Aiken County that would create 122 full-time and contractor positions in the following year. The company plans to expand its current facility by 266,000 square feet and produce an additional 4,750 passenger and light truck tires per day: “Having an industry leader like Bridgestone expand their main plant and mixing facility in Aiken County speaks volumes of the welcoming business climate in South Carolina. Bridgestone will not only commit more capital to the state to grow its current operation but will create more jobs in order to increase production. This serves as a testament to the skilled and capable workforce our state provides our nation’s job creators.”
07.19.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011, H.R. 2560, by a vote of 234-190: “The Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011 provides legitimate long-term reforms to Washington’s runaway spending. As an original co-sponsor of this Act, I firmly believe this legislation will force Washington to do what families and small businesses must do every day: balance the budget. “This Act puts an end to the ‘spend now, pay later,’ mentality in Washington by: cutting current spending levels, enacting caps which restrict the amount of money the government can spend each year, and requiring a Balanced Budget Amendment in order to raise the debt limit. These measures are a step in the right direction in putting our country back on the path to prosperity. “I encourage the Senate to pass this legislation to bring it one step closer to becoming a reality.”
07.15.2011	On Friday, July 15, 2011, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel held a hearing entitled “Military Voting.” Chairman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following prepared remarks: “Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony on military and overseas voting from the Department of Defense, local election officials and a military officer who was a Voting Assistance Officer while deployed to Afghanistan during the 2010 election. Our witnesses have traveled a long distance to help us understand how members of the Armed Forces and their families along with U.S. civilians living and working outside of the United States are afforded the opportunity to exercise their right to vote. I want to welcome our witnesses and I look forward to their testimony.” “Voting is a fundamental and essential part of the democratic process. It is both our right and our duty as citizens of a democracy to set the direction of the Nation by selecting the individuals who will represent us at each level of government. This responsibility remains with us regardless of where we choose to live and work or, as in the case of our service members, where they are sent to defend our freedom. “For many years Congress has been concerned about military and overseas voters who have told us about the difficulties they face when they try to cast their ballots. Registering to vote, receiving a ballot by mail and returning the ballot by mail in time for the vote to count in an election when the voter is not physically located in the U.S. is challenging at best. One can only imagine the difficulty trying to accomplish that same process when the voter is at a remote outpost in Afghanistan fighting a war. “Yet, these are the very individuals who, through their military service, protect our right to vote. “Congress has worked hard over the last several years to ensure that the men and women assigned overseas on behalf of our country do not lose their ability to vote as a result of their service. A number of federal laws have been enacted to enable the military and U.S. citizens abroad to vote in federal elections. “Most recently, Congress enacted the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (MOVE) Act as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The MOVE Act required the Department of Defense to make several changes to the Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) to improve the process by which military absentee voters cast their ballots. I look forward to hear from our DOD witness how these improvements have been implemented within the Department. I am also interested to know how the changes to FVAP affected the military and overseas voter in the 2010 general election. Were more military and overseas voters able to cast their ballots in time for them to be counted in the election? “In addition, a successful military voting assistance program depends on the collaborative efforts of the Department of Defense, together with the military voting assistance officers in the field, and state and local election officials. I am very pleased that we have two local election officials with us today. They come to us from Lexington County in my home state of South Carolina and from San Diego, California, home to our Ranking Member Susan Davis. We also have with us today a voting assistance officer who had to find a way to get deployed soldiers the election information they needed. I look forward to hearing their perspectives on how to best assist military and overseas voters cast an absentee ballot. “Every day, our troops lay their lives on the line to defend freedom and it is our job to make sure that they are not denied the right to vote.”
07.13.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after learning of today’s terrorist attack in India which killed more than twenty people and injured at least 100 more in Mumbai’s financial district: “I am deeply saddened by the news from Mumbai. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and all affected by these attacks. There is no place in this world for senseless acts of violence like those experienced in India today. The American people stand firmly behind the people of India in support of the fight against global terrorism.”
07.07.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, released the following statement after today’s committee hearing focused on “Rushing Union Elections: Protecting the Interests of Big Labor at the Expense of Workers’ Free Choice.” Wilson stated, “These proposals will represent a major shift in procedures that will adversely affect the rights of workers. “The NLRB seeks to limit the rights of employers and workers by forcing them to forfeit their legal rights while delaying litigation over many voter-eligibility issues. Unions want to force workers to become members by taking away the rights afforded by the laws of this country. These moves are clearly aimed to pressure workers into joining a union without making an informed decision. “Employers choose to locate to South Carolina due to its welcoming business climate due in part to its right-to-work laws. These proposals by the NLRB are the latest attempt to continue to push its activist agenda at the expense of American jobs.”
06.24.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted against authorizing the limited use of the United States Armed Forces in Libya: “The President’s decision to ignore the Constitution along with the War Powers Resolution has led us to this point. Choosing not to consult with Congress on this conflict was complicated even further by this Administration’s failure to explain and outline a plan of action to the American public. “NATO is one of America’s closest allies. I do not want to jeopardize the progress it has made in removing Muammar Gaddafi from power. However, the President’s failure to actively engage Congress forces me to vote against committing our Armed Forces on the ground in Libya.”
06.22.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced the withdrawal of 10,000 troops from Afghanistan by the year’s end with an additional 20,000 troops expected to be pulled out by the end of 2012: “I am concerned about the President’s announcement to begin drawing down troops from Afghanistan sooner than General David Petraeus and other military leaders have advised. This decision is one that I would prefer be ‘conditions-based,’ and I do not feel the conditions on the ground in Afghanistan warrant such a withdrawal. In fact, I believe these steep reductions will reverse the gains American troops sacrificed to make during the last year and a half.”
06.21.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after being presented with the inaugural Political Forum Award for Advocacy by the Asian American Hotel Owners Association (AAHOA) this past Saturday at the AAHOA national convention in Las Vegas, Nevada: “Having worked side-by-side with the Asian American hotel owner community over the last thirty years, I am honored to be the first recipient of this annual award. The hospitality industry is one of America’s primary job creators. Hotels and motels across the country have consistently provided and promoted job growth for millions of people across the country. “Founded in 1989, AAHOA’s 10,000 members collectively own more than 20,000 hotels in the United States valued at over $128 billion. It is one of the fastest-growing organizations in the hospitality industry and is strongly represented in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. I am proud of its many accomplishments.”
06.16.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the Royal Bank of Canada was named as the new sponsor for the Heritage golf tournament: “I would like to congratulate the Heritage Classic Foundation for securing a five year sponsorship with the Royal Bank of Canada. Ensuring this PGA event stays at Harbour Town is wonderful news for the Lowcountry and the state in general. “I would also like to praise the efforts of all parties involved that played a role in helping to secure this sponsorship. Steve Wilmot and Simon Fraser, both of the Heritage Classic Foundation Tournament, worked tirelessly with Governor Nikki Haley and Duane Parrish, the director of the South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism, in successfully finding a great sponsor.”
06.16.2011	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) welcomed the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (DNFSB) to today’s public meeting on issues related to public health and safety, particularly nuclear materials disposition, at the Savannah River Site (SRS): “I am grateful for the Board’s continued commitment to safety with regard to our nation’s nuclear facilities. With potential consequences being so significant, safety must remain a high priority in decision making. It is one of the reasons I share the Board’s concern over the Department of Energy’s (DOE) decision to suspend chemical processing at SRS’s H-Canyon. “As the Board made clear to Dr. Steven Chu, the Secretary of the Department of Energy, in a letter it sent last February: the H-Canyon facility, including HB-Line, has proven to be an effective and valuable asset for safely processing fissile materials over several decades. These H-Area facilities are the only active processing facilities having capability of interest in the United States, and are the DOE’s only disposition path for processing these types of excess nuclear materials. Until the DOE demonstrates legitimate alternative ways to dispose of its excess nuclear materials, I strongly advocate for the ongoing disposition of fissile materials at the H-Canyon facility.” The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (DNFSB) is an independent federal agency established by Congress in 1988. Their mandate under the Atomic Energy Act is to provide safety oversight of the nuclear weapons complex operated by the Department of Energy (DOE), and to ensure all of these activities are carried out by DOE in a manner that provides adequate protection for the public, workers, and the environment.
06.08.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the sales tax legislation allowing online retailer Amazon to create 2,000 jobs in the Midlands became law at midnight this morning: “I would like to commend the job creation efforts of the South Carolina Legislature in conjunction with local government leaders, the local business community, and the citizens of the Midlands. Amazon can now move forward in creating over 2,000 full-time jobs in the Midlands. “Yesterday, I was fortunate enough to be provided a personal tour of the Amazon site in Lexington County. I appreciate Lexington County Councilmen Bill Banning and Johnny Jeffcoat for arranging this visit. With plans to span over 1 million square feet, I was able to appreciate the $125 million investment firsthand. The facility will be a welcomed addition to the state of South Carolina.”
05.27.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the South Carolina Senate voted to pass legislation that would allow for online retailer Amazon to create 2,000 jobs to the Midlands: “I am thankful the South Carolina Senate passed this legislation. Amazon is one step closer to completing its $125 million distribution facility that will bring 2,000 new jobs to the Midlands. “This is a huge victory for job growth in South Carolina. I urge the South Carolina House of Representatives to pass this same legislation in order to make these jobs a reality.”
05.26.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, released the following statement after today’s Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions hearing focused on “Corporate Campaigns and the NLRB: The Impact of Union Pressure on Job Creation.” Wilson stated, “From the moment the 112th Congress was sworn in, one of the main focuses of House Republicans has been to address job creation and job growth. Businesses have a right to contract where to work in the best interest of their shareholders and workers. Unions have no right to bully job creators. “Boeing has selected Charleston, my birthplace, because of its pro-business leadership, well-trained workforce, and right-to-work laws. The NLRB’s unprecedented attack on American jobs is a threat to all right-to-work states, not just South Carolina.”
05.24.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress earlier today: “It was an honor to have Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speak to a joint session of Congress today. Israel is one our country’s closest allies, and the partnership shared between our two countries is vital in achieving peace and stability in the Middle East. “I am in complete agreement with the Prime Minister when he stated the reinstatement of the 1967 borders is indefensible. Israel should not be forced to negotiate with those who refuse to acknowledge its right to exist. “The United States must remain committed to Israel in order to facilitate the spread of peace and democracy throughout the Middle East.”
05.24.2011	In further action aimed at preserving the freedom of right-to-work states, Rep. Tim Scott (SC-01) introduced The Job Protection Act to underscore current protection of state laws in the National Labor Relations Act. Initiated with his South Carolina colleagues, Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Rep. Trey Gowdy (SC-04), this legislation will prevent the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from moving forward with their case against Boeing or attempting similar action against other companies. Previously, Scott led the call for the termination of an Obama Administration appointee, Lafe E. Solomon, Acting General Counsel of the NLRB noting, “The Administration has overstepped its bounds through the inappropriate actions of an unelected regulatory board. Taxpayers should not be paying a salary for someone whose actions are destroying jobs.” In explaining the need for this measure, Scott said, “The NLRB’s action represents an unprecedented attack on our free enterprise system and it ignores 45 years of NLRB and Supreme Court precedent, which holds that an employer has a legitimate and permissible interest in preventing future work stoppages.” Rep. Wilson expressed his support for the bill saying “I am honored to join my colleagues in introducing the Job Protection Act. The bill clarifies existing federal law and will prevent the NLRB and like-minded organizations from operating in a similar manner. Manufacturing employers operate in South Carolina due to the welcoming climate provided by the right-to-work laws. Businesses have a right to contract where to work in the best interest of their shareholders and workers. The NLRB complaint is a threat to all right-to-work states, not just South Carolina. Bullying by special interests and unions will not be tolerated in South Carolina. This legislation makes sure of it.” Rep. Gowdy also reinforced his position. “At a time when union membership is at a historic low, unions are seeking to influence this administration in a historically high fashion. Through an activist NLRB, union leadership and appointed NLRB lawyers are attempting to control where businesses locate and what they can make – trampling on Americans' treasured ability to make sound economic choices based on financial factors, not fear of political retribution. This bill protects that vital freedom. And let the administration be forewarned – South Carolina will not be intimidated." The Job Protection Act explicitly clarifies that the NLRB cannot order an employer to relocate jobs from one location to another, guarantees an employer the right to decide where to do business within the United States, and protects an employer’s free speech regarding the costs associated with having a unionized workforce without fear of such communication being used as evidence in an anti-union discrimination claim.
05.18.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the South Carolina House of Representatives voted to create 2,000 jobs in the Midlands: “I would like to congratulate the South Carolina House of Representatives for passing legislation that creates 2,000 new jobs by Amazon.com in the Midlands of South Carolina. I now encourage the South Carolina Senate to follow the House’s lead in promoting job creation.”
05.09.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Michelin of North America announced it will be creating more than 270 new jobs by expanding capacity and investing an additional $200 million in its Lexington, South Carolina, facility: “This is great news for the people of the Midlands. Since 1981, Michelin has invested over $1 billion in its Lexington plant. By expanding operations with an additional $200 million commitment for that plant, Michelin will create another 270 jobs. Michelin’s increased presence in the Second Congressional District ensures it will be here to stay for a long time. “I would like to commend the efforts of the Lexington County Council along with economic leaders in the state. I am grateful for South Carolina’s right to work laws which allow large corporations like Michelin to thrive.”
05.04.2011	U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012: “The Chairman’s mark in front of you is the product of an open, bipartisan process. As we begin, we are grateful for the professionalism of our SEALS in killing the mass murderer, Osama bin Laden. It is a proud day for all Americans, especially our military, their families, and veterans. “At this time, I will highlight some of the more significant recommendations contained in the mark. “The mark provides for a 1.6 percent increase in military basic pay. “It sets policy for measuring and reporting unit operations tempo and personnel tempo, reflecting the Committee’s continuing concern about stresses on the force and proposed reductions in military personnel, especially at a time when we must continue our resolve for victory in the current mission requirements. “Another initiative important to me is reform of the military recruiting system to include graduates of home schooling and virtual schools. I see military service as an opportunity and very fulfilling—and these are extraordinary patriots. “The mark makes reductions in the numbers of general and flag officers to complement the administrative reductions directed by the Secretary of Defense. “Furthermore, the mark consolidates and clarifies the legal authority for the administration and oversight of Arlington National Cemetery. “I believe the mark is strong in the multiple provisions dealing with sexual assault, child custody, mental health, traumatic brain injury, and post-traumatic stress disorder. “Finally, the mark includes a one-year prohibition on any increase in TRICARE Prime fees. I want to do more but the challenge of finding mandatory spending offsets limited what I could achieve. I am sure there will be more discussion of this issue at the full committee mark-up, but I strongly believe military retirees have made significant down payments through their dedicated service to the Nation. In view of that service, it is not right for the Nation to ask them to pay more for the health care to which they are entitled as all citizens are being personally challenged financially by rising gas prices. “In conclusion, I want to thank Mrs. Davis and her staff for their contributions and support in this process. Of course, we are joined by an active, informed, and dedicated set of subcommittee members. Their recommendations and priorities are clearly reflected in this mark. “Additionally, I appreciate the dedication of the Subcommittee majority staff: John Chapla, Jeanette James, Mike Higgins, Craig Greene, and Jim Weiss. Before we get to consideration of the mark, I want to recognize Mrs. Davis for any remarks she might want to make.”
05.04.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after Wal-Mart announced plans to expand operations in South Carolina which would create 4,000 new jobs in the state: “This announcement is very good news because it not only creates jobs in South Carolina but shows Wal-Mart’s commitment to the state. The state is equally committed to this retailer which will soon employ a total of 32,000 citizens in South Carolina. The building of new stores with the creation of thousands of jobs is great news for all parties involved.”
05.03.2011	The chairman and ranking member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel today unveiled details of the portion of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 which will be marked up by the subcommittee on Wednesday. Subcommittee Chairman Joe Wilson’s mark (R-S.C.) provides America’s military personnel a pay increase and continues the strong support the committee has always provided military families. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to make sure our men and women in uniform, their families, and veterans are adequately compensated for their selfless sacrifice and dedication to our great nation. The missions undertaken by our service members entail risk and requirements that are second to none, and few others realize this as their families do,” said Chairman Wilson. “I am proud this bipartisan legislation reflects the Committee’s commitment to our troops and their loved ones. I also appreciate the opportunity to work with other Members of the Committee and their staffs, and I recognize the work spent putting it together.” “I want to thank the Chairman, Mr. Wilson, staff and all members of the Military Personnel for their hard work in crafting this important piece of legislation and for working in such a bipartisan manner,” said Ranking Member Davis. “Nearly ten years of armed conflict has taken a toll on our service members, and it is my goal to ensure that we are doing everything possible to ensure that they have the benefits and support that they deserve. To that end, I am particular pleased that the mark includes several provisions that I strongly support such as a 1.6 percent pay raise, apprenticeship programs to help transition of our service members back into their communities and efforts to continue to reduce sexual assault and harassment in the Services.” As part of its efforts to bring a new level of transparency to this once closed process, the House Armed Services Committee under the leadership Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.) will make the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 available to media, interested parties and the general public prior to consideration by the full committee or one of its subcommittees. More information about the legislation is available at https://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/ndaa. Highlights of Military Personnel Subcommittee mark include: · Provides a 1.6 percent increase in military basic pay. · Prohibits TRICARE Prime fee increases for one year. · Expresses the deep concern the committee feels about the impact proposed future force reductions for the Army and Marine Corps will have on individual dwell time as well as the overall health and welfare of the all volunteer force. · Establishes requirements for the management and measurement of dwell time—the time service members spend at home station following a deployment; personnel tempo—the time, including training time, that a service member is unable to spend time in housing in which the service member lives due to work duties; and operating tempo—the time units are involved in operational and training requirements. · For recruitment purposes, requires the Department of Defense to treat those persons who receive a secondary education level diploma from a non-traditional secondary school program, such as on-line high schools, charter schools, home schools or a hybrid school, the same as a person who receives a diploma from a traditional high school, as long as those non-traditional secondary schools are in compliance with state or local education laws. · Increases the allowance for Marine Corps officers serving on active duty in grades of major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel. For example, with an officer strength of 17,500, the Marine Corps could promote 485 additional officers to the grade of major, 286 additional officers to the grade of lieutenant colonel, and 37 additional officers to the grade of colonel. · Makes health professional students who are enrolled in a course of study that results in a degree in clinical psychology or social work eligible to receive a stipend. · Reforms, consolidates, and simplifies travel and transportation authorities to enhance the utility, flexibility, efficiency, and relevancy of the law in response to a complex and changing travel and transportation environment. · Reduces the statutory authorizations for general and flag officers by eliminating 14 joint duty pool authorizations; cutting 11 Air Force authorizations; and requiring that 10 general and flag officers who previously were exempt from being counted against service or joint duty pool limits, to now be counted. · Establishes the position of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau as a three-star flag officer and requires that the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, previously exempt from counting against flag officer limits, and the Vice Chief be counted against the joint pool limits. · Establishes and clarifies the authorities and responsibilities of the Secretary of the Army to develop, operate, manage, administer, oversee, and fund the Army National Military Cemeteries, including Arlington National Cemetery. Clarifies the roles of the Congressional oversight committees with regard to the Army National Military Cemeteries and provides for continued inspections of them by the Department of Defense Inspector General. · Makes mental health assessments available for members of the reserve components at the location of their unit during unit training and assemblies. · Provides legal council to servicemembers who are victims of sexual assault.
05.02.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after President Obama’s address to the nation confirming the death of Al Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden: “I am pleased to hear the news regarding the death of terrorist Osama Bin Laden at the hands of our military. Bin Laden served as the mastermind behind the September 11th terrorist attacks that killed nearly 3,000 innocent civilians on American soil and was the central figure in the Al Qaeda movement from inception. Bin Laden’s death proves intelligence in the region was reliable and robust. The Al Qaeda leader’s demise is a testament to the determination of our military, counter terrorism, and intelligence officials. I am grateful for their service to our country. Their combined sacrifice and commitment played an instrumental role in closing this chapter in the Global War on Terrorism. By no means is this an end to the War on Terror. Bin Laden served as the symbolic leader of extremism across the world. However, this is evidence that American forces can penetrate the heart of the most extreme terrorist organizations and bring their leaders to justice. Let this serve as a lesson to any terrorist organization aiming to harm Americans and our way of life, there will be severe consequences for your actions. Our resolve is stronger than ever.”
04.20.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement as the National Labor Relations Board issued a complaint against The Boeing Company for operating its airline assembly plant in South Carolina: “Large employers operate in South Carolina due to the welcoming climate provided by the right to work laws in the Palmetto State. Empowering special interest groups to encourage the National Labor Relations Board to wield uncontrolled influence over employers like Boeing would hurt our state’s job growth and economy. I am hopeful this claim by the NLRB will be rejected quickly.”
04.18.2011	MEDIA ADVISORY: Wilson Announces Town Hall Meetings Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced he will be hosting two town hall meetings in South Carolina's Second Congressional District to focus on ending Washington's reckless spending. Wilson invites all residents of the Second Congressional District to attend these meetings in their neighborhoods next week. Lexington: Monday, April 25th @ 5:30 p.m. Lexington Town Hall Auditorium / 111 Maiden Lane, Lexington, SC 29072 Hardeeville: Thursday, April 28th @ 5:30 p.m. Palmetto Electric Cooperative / 1 Cooperative Way, Hardeeville, SC 29927
04.15.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed, H. Con. Res. 34, Budget Committee Chairman Ryan’s Budget: “Our country’s current financial situation cannot be ignored. Our nation’s current deficits and debts must be addressed by Congressional leaders. House Republicans continue to lead the way in presenting policy that not only focuses on the need for immediate financial reform but also addresses the issue future generations of Americans will face: the enormous debt that Washington continues to pass on to them. “With this vote, conservatives in Congress proved yet again, we are willing to make the tough decisions that will not only tackle the challenges our nation faces today but also the ones that will arise tomorrow.”
04.14.2011	On April 12, 2011, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was presented with the Colonel Arthur T. Marix Congressional Leadership Award by the Military Officers Association of America. The award honors Members of Congress who, without regard to political affiliation, have been consistently strong supporters of national defense and the uniformed services community. “As an individual legislator and as a leader on the Armed Services Committee,” said MOAA Board Chairman Admiral Steve Abbot (USN-Ret), “Representative Joe Wilson has championed efforts to upgrade military pay raises, eliminate penalties for disabled retirees and survivors, prohibit inappropriate TRICARE fee increases, and relieve inequities affecting Guard and Reserve members and families, among many other initiatives. We are honored to present him MOAA’s highest award.” Congressman Wilson stated, “With over 370,000 members representing military officers, the Military Officers Association of America is very important to me. Having served for 31 years and retiring as a Colonel in the National Guard, I understand the importance of MOAA’s mission: which is to advocate for a strong national defense while representing the interests of military officers at every stage of their career. Receiving this award humbles me and I am honored to have received it.”
04.08.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) took to the House floor this morning to urge Senate Democrats to take advantage of the opportunity presented by the House and pass a bill that funds military troops and their families for the rest of the year. Click here to view the speech from earlier today. Thereafter, the Congressman proceeded to take part in a gathering of conservative House leaders on the steps of the Senate to call on Senator Reid to end the 48 days of inactivity his party has been responsible for by acting on the budget the House passed. “Our men and women in uniform cannot be treated like pawns in a political game. Enough is enough, House Republicans have presented multiple budgets and the Senate has failed to act on any of them. I urge Senator Reid to act on this bill in order to support our military while avoiding the impending government shutdown.” Pictures from this morning may be viewed here.
04.08.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after announcing he will return his Congressional salary accrued in the event of a potential federal government shutdown: “As long as the federal government remains shutdown, I will not accept my compensation and will return my salary back to the Treasury Department. Our brave men and women fighting in harm’s way are going without compensation – Members of Congress should do the same.”
04.06.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after visiting the White House this morning to promote the National Initiative to Support Military Families: “This morning’s meeting with First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden brings attention to the National Initiative to Support Military Families and what it aims to achieve. Whether it is a private citizen, a philanthropic organization, or the government; the initiative seeks to educate and induce action from all groups and organizations in a community in supporting military families. As a 31 year veteran of the South Carolina National Guard and Reserve and the father of four sons currently serving in the military, I understand the sacrifice many military families make and fully support the National Initiative to Support Military Families in its efforts to reconnect these families with their communities.”
03.31.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement upon hearing the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s plans to launch an investigation looking into the Administration’s actions on terminate the Yucca Mountain nuclear repository: “I applaud the efforts of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. I agree with Chairmen Upton and Shimkus with regards to launching an investigation as to the reasoning behind halting the development for the Yucca repository since no evidence suggests there was either a scientific or a technical basis. The termination would halt 25 years of progress while wasting over $9.5 billion in investment from ratepayers according to the Government Accountability Office. South Carolinians alone have invested over $1.2 billion in Yucca Mountain. It is time to remove politics from science and reopen Yucca Mountain without further delay.”
03.31.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after joining the bipartisan Balanced Budget Amendment Caucus to fight the culture of overspending in Washington and to restore fiscal sanity to the federal government: “America’s national debt stands at $14.2 trillion and the current year’s deficit is estimated to be $1.5 trillion. The only way to avoid financial ruin is with a Constitutional Amendment that requires both Congress and the president to be held accountable to taxpayers. Millions of Americans across the country are forced to balance their budget and the federal government should be no different. It’s time to stop the reckless, out-of-control spending sprees in Washington and replace them with policies that put the federal government’s finances in order.” The Balance Budget Amendment Caucus is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress dedicated to developing and championing a measure that would mandate a balanced federal budget. Founded by Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO), its website can be found by clicking here.
03.23.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement on the one year birthday of ObamaCare, the federal government takeover of health care: “Normally, birthdays are cause for celebration. They allow us to take a moment and reflect on the past year. ObamaCare is no cause for celebration. It is hard to believe that just one short year ago, liberals in Congress haphazardly rammed through a 2,800 page health care bill that made its way to the President’s desk where it was signed, sealed, and delivered to the American people. Under the guise of making health care more ‘affordable’ and ‘accessible,’ liberals in Washington have caused many Americans to see their insurance premiums increase while putting seniors at risk due to doctors opting out of Medicare. The government takeover of health care would cost an additional $2.6 trillion to implement while adding $701 billion to the deficit. Then-Speaker of the House Pelosi stated, ‘We have to pass the (health care) bill so you can find out what is in it.’ Here we are one year later with the real facts surrounding this health care law finally surfacing. House Republicans have led the charge against ObamaCare by successfully voting to repeal the health care law and many of its job-choking add-ons such as the 1099 tax provision. Alternatives proposed by House Republicans include a patient-centered solutions health care program which returns the decision making power to private citizens and not Washington bureaucrats. Birthdays are a time for reflection and self improvement, ObamaCare needs a healthy dose of both.”
03.21.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following statement after the Administration announcement to impose a no-fly zone over the airspace in Libya: “Authorizing military action before setting a clear objective places our brave soldiers at risk for an indefinite amount of time. A United Nations’ Security Council resolution is no substitute for American foreign policy. Today, the President stated, ‘It is U.S. policy that Qaddafi needs to go…’ but the UN resolution makes no mention of a regime change. The Administration must explain the intent of such military actions to the American people as well as Congress. From this point forward, Congressional leaders must be informed of the strategy and overall goal being attained. Members of Congress and the American people have a right to be told as to the developments concerning our troops in the region. The United States is a leader in aiding those seeking to achieve democracy. It must not hide from this responsibility. The people of Libya are attempting to rid themselves of a dictator in order to become self-governed. However, the Administration’s military objective must be outlined to the American people and Congress without further delay.”
03.17.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after holding a press conference denouncing the newly appointed health care position created to oversee and evaluate the state of the current military health care system. “Recent measures taken by the Department of Defense seek to highlight efficiencies in the military health care system. I am yet to see the need for creating a brand new duplicative health care position at taxpayers’ expense. Such a position directly contradicts the purpose of the measures put forth by the Department of Defense. This appointed position would epitomize the type of waste the military is seeking to eliminate rather than encourage. My feelings supporting this point of view are very strong. I, along with other Members of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, have written a letter to Dr. Clifford Stanley, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, respectfully requesting to immediately eliminate this position. My goal is to work with the Department of Defense in finding efficiencies while still improving the quality and access of healthcare to members of the military, their families, and veterans. As I have stated before, hiring a ‘Military Health Care Czar’ does not help to achieve this goal.”
03.17.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House voted to eliminate funding the National Public Radio (NPR) with taxpayers’ dollars: “At a time where technology has allowed for news information to become widely available by numerous resources and outlets, there is no justification to have the American taxpayer subsidize NPR. Recently, top executives at NPR have admitted the public radio network does not need federal backing to run its operation. Continuing to subsidize NPR with taxpayer funding after the network admits it can do just fine on its own does not make sense when the national debt stands at over $14 trillion. NPR is no different from other media outlets and should be competing just the same. I supported the vote to defund NPR and will continue to seek ways to limit the spending of our federal government.”
03.15.2011	The Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee today launched the first in a series of hearings to analyze the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2011 for military health programs with the Department of Defense. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the chairman of the subcommittee, released the following opening statement for today’s hearing on Defense Health Program cost efficiencies and the Military Health System: “Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony on the Military Health System and the Defense Health Program for Fiscal Year 2012. I would like to begin by acknowledging the remarkable military and civilian medical professionals who provide extraordinary care to our service members and their families along with veterans, here at home and around the world, often in some of the toughest and most austere environments. I have recently returned from Balad and Bagram where I am always appreciative of the professionals who have saved so many American, Iraqi, and Afghani lives. I have firsthand knowledge of their dedication and sacrifice from my second son, who has served in Iraq and is now an orthopedic resident in the Navy. As a grateful dad, in a military family, I was reassured as to the medical care available for my Army son and Air Force nephew who both served in Iraq. “The subcommittee remains committed to ensuring that the men and women who are entrusted with the lives of our troops have the resources to continue their work for future generations of our most deserving military beneficiaries. Even in this tight fiscal environment, the Military Heath System must continue to provide world class health care to our beneficiaries and remain strong and viable in order to maintain that commitment to future beneficiaries. “The Department of Defense has proposed several measures aimed at reducing the cost of providing health care to our service members and their families and military veterans. While I appreciate that your plan is a more comprehensive approach than previous cost cutting efforts, the challenge here is finding the balance between fiscal responsibility while maintaining a viable and robust military health system. We must be sure to remember these proposals have complex implications that go ‘beyond beneficiaries.’ They will also affect the people who support the defense health system, such as pharmacists, hospital employees, and contractors. “The subcommittee has a number of concerns about the Department’s initiatives. To that end, we would expect the Department’s witnesses to address our concerns, including that: · “The proposed TRICARE Prime fee increase for Fiscal Year 2012, while appearing to be modest, is a 13 percent increase over the current rate. The Department of Defense (DOD) proposes increasing the fee in the out years based on an inflation index. You suggest 6.2 percent but it is unclear exactly which index you are using? · “You plan to reduce the rate that TRICARE pays Sole Community Hospitals for inpatient care provided to our active duty, family members and retirees. Several of these hospitals are located very close to military bases; in fact some are right outside the front gates, especially important for 24-hour emergency care. What analysis have you done to determine whether reducing these rates will affect access to care for our beneficiaries and in particular the readiness of our armed forces? “I would also like our witnesses to discuss the range of efficiency options that were considered but not included in the President’s budget. I would appreciate hearing your views on the recent GAO recommendations included in their report on Federal duplication, overlap and fragmentation. GAO made recommendations regarding establishing a unified medical command and for DOD to finally jointly modernize their electronic health records system with the VA. “In addition, I would like to hear from the military surgeons about efforts they are taking within the military departments to increase the efficiency of the military health system and reduce costs. I would also like the military surgeons’ views on areas where additional efficiencies can be gained across the DOD health system. “The Department of Defense recently announced that they have hired Governor John Baldacci, former Governor of Maine, to undertake a full scale review of military health care and the impacts of military health care on the force. I would appreciate hearing from Dr. Stanley the considerations for this review and what the Department hopes to gain from Governor Baldacci’s efforts. Why is having a ‘Military Health Care Czar’ not a duplication of the duties already assumed by Undersecretary Stanley and Assistant Secretary Woodson? “Finally, I would like to make it clear that in an effort to reduce the cost of military health care and find efficiencies in the military health system we must never lose sight of the population that the military medical system serves. The members of the Armed Forces and their families who currently serve and those who served as veterans for a full career in the past warrant the best health care available. Reducing cost must never result in reduced quality or the availability to the health care they earned and they deserve. “I hope that our witnesses will address these important issues as directly as possible in their oral statements and in response to Member questions.” ###
03.15.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chairman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee, released the following statement after this morning’s hearing on Defense Health Program cost efficiencies and the Military Health System: “In an economic climate where the Committee finds itself having to balance fiscal responsibility in the military health care system with viability and efficiency; I do not see the purpose served by having Governor John Baldacci serve as a ‘Military Health Care Czar.’ I have the utmost confidence in the abilities of Under Secretary Stanley and Assistant Secretary Woodson to conduct a full scale review on the impacts of military health care on our military. I see no reason to create another position to oversee the duties already assumed by these capable leaders. This new position would not only further grow government bureaucracy but it would also enhance the inefficiency this hearing aims to limit.”
03.03.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement regarding the House vote to pass the 1099 Repeal Bill, H.R. 4, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011: “Today’s legislation was designed to protect small businesses, their employees, and the American taxpayer. The 1099 Repeal Bill reduces federal spending by $20 Billion over ten years and reduces taxes by $19.7 Billion. Furthermore, it reduces the deficit by $166 Million in the first ten years. Overburdening tax paperwork and expensive regulations prevent small businesses, the back-bone of our national economy, from helping with job creation and economic growth. The federal government needs to stay out of the way of small businesses. Doing so will allow these enterprises to help jump-start the economy.” ###
03.01.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after PGBA, a subsidiary of BlueCross and Blue Shield of South Carolina, was selected as a subcontractor by Humana Military Health Care Services for a recently awarded $23.5 million contract for TRICARE, the health insurance program for members and veterans of the military: "I am excited to see PGBA’s work awarded with a contract from the Department of Defense. This contract will keep 130 PGBA jobs in the Midlands and another 700 jobs in the Pee Dee. PGBA has performed administrative contractor duties for TRICARE and its predecessor program for thirty consecutive years. "PGBA will provide claims processing, customer service, fiscal services, and information systems support. Since August 2004, PGBA has processed more than 107 million claims with an accuracy rate of 99.75%. PGBA implemented the first internet based processing system to improve service while cutting administrative costs. "PGBA has a long record of effectively supporting the TRICARE system while providing jobs in the Second District. I am thankful for its presence in our state. This contract ensures its good work will stay in our communities." ###
03.01.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was recognized by Heritage Action for America, a conservative advocacy group, as one of 47 Members of Congress who voted for every single spending cut in H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011. “Last November, a message was sent to Washington: limit spending and create jobs. Today, Washington borrows 42 cents of every dollar it spends. The federal government cannot continue to spend money it does not have. At a time when many Americans are forced to tighten their financial budgets, Washington should be willing to do the same. “I am proud to be named to this list and commend the entire House Republican delegation of South Carolina for joining me in voting for every single spending cut in H.R 1. It is a great start for the 112th Congress,” said Congressman Wilson.“The House of Representatives passed a measure to fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year and cut $61 billion in the process. Heritage Action appreciates Congressman Wilson’s rock-solid willingness to cut spending,” said Michael A. Needham, CEO of Heritage Action for America. ###
02.24.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement regarding the Department of Defense’s recent announcement to award a $35 Billion tanker contract to the Boeing Company, “Today’s Department of Defense announcement that Boeing will be the provider for the KC-X Aerial Refueling Tanker is great news for our armed services. This critical aircraft will be charged with providing aerial refueling capability to our military. Such resources are instrumental in ensuring we provide our men and women in uniform the necessary tools to protect our freedoms. “With Boeing’s large presence in South Carolina, I am delighted that a local company will be responsible for building nearly 200 refueling aircraft for the United States Air Force. This decision is great news for the workers of South Carolina and the thousands of suppliers across America.”
02.19.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after the House passage of H.R. 1, which cuts government spending by $100 Billion compared to the President’s budget request for 2011: "This week, the House passed one of the largest spending reductions in American history in H.R. 1. This legislation will save hard-working taxpayers $100 Billion dollars. I would like to thank both the House Republican Leadership and the conservative freshman class for following through on our Pledge to America. "Limiting federal spending is critical for job creation, the promotion of private sector investment, and for putting our country back on the path to financial prosperity. House Republicans intend to continue to follow through on our promises to stop Washington’s four-year out-of-control spending binge."
02.17.2011	On February 15, 2011, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) participated in a hearing the Committee on House Administration conducted on the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (“MOVE”) Act. The purpose of this hearing was to explore the implementation of the MOVE Act during this past election cycle. States had varying degrees of success in complying with the Act, specifically with the provision requiring states mail overseas ballots at least 45 days before election day. Several states missed the 45-day statutory deadline for mailing ballots, many of which were intended for service members overseas. Keeping good on a promise to provide oversight on the recent irregularities reported regarding the right to vote for members of our military, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced the following update: “Members of our military fight for the basic democratic right they are being denied. We owe it to our troops to ensure they receive voting ballots on time so they can participate in the democratic process they help to defend. As a former election commissioner, I know compliance can be achieved. I will work to call further hearings on the matter so we can examine how to be adequately prepared for the next election cycle. Doing so will enable members of our military to have the opportunity to exercise their right to vote. In addition, I would like to thank Chairman Lungren for affording me the opportunity to participate in this hearing.”
02.16.2011	Congressman Mike Turner released a letter from Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, in which the Secretary agrees with Turner’s fight for a Uniformed Standard of Protection for Service members in child custody disputes. The Standard would apply specifically to those cases where service is the sole factor involved in a custody decision. “I join families of Service members around the globe in thanking Secretary Gates for his support of their parental rights. Our men and women in uniform should not have to worry about losing their children while they defend us overseas,” said Turner. The decision by Secretary Gates follows years of effort on the part of Congressman Turner where he has introduced his Service Members Family Protection Act, which has passed the House five times, including by voice vote and under suspension with no opposition – only to languish in the Senate. With the support of Secretary Gates, Turner’s effort to protect service members finds new momentum. In his letter, Secretary Gates wrote: “I have been giving this matter a lot of thought and believe [the Department of Defense] should change [its] position to one where [they] are willing to consider whether appropriate legislation can be crafted that provides Service members with a federal uniform standard of protection in cases where it is established that military service is the sole factor involved in a child custody decision involving a Service member…we should work with Congress to pursue an acceptable legislative formula.” “With the support of the Secretary of Defense coupled with years of widespread support in the House, we have an opportunity to see this great wrong righted. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle to see that we create a Uniform Standard for our Service members,” added Turner. Turner began his advocacy on behalf of deployed military parents after hearing the story of Eva Crouch-Slusher, a Captain in the Kentucky National Guard. Captain Slusher served an 18-month mobilization with the Kentucky National Guard starting in 2003. Her service was later used as the basis to strip her of custody of her daughter, Sara. After an emotionally and financially costly two-year legal battle, she regained custody of her daughter. Since then, Eva Slusher has joined Congressman Turner in advocating for legislation to help protect other military parents from similar custody fights. “I am pleased Secretary Gates has recognized the value of a Uniform Standard for child custody issues for our military service members. To have our men and women worried about these issues while they are deployed detracts from the overall war effort. As the Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, I look forward to working with Mr. Turner to provide a federal, baseline standard to assist men and women serving in our active duty military and I thank him for his relentless work on this important issue,” said Congressman Joe Wilson, the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, which has jurisdiction over the creation of the uniformed standard."
02.15.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03) released the following statements regarding the recent announcement that the TTX Company added 200 new jobs to the area: Wilson stated, "The recent announcement of job creation by the TTX Company is great news for Aiken County. Adding 200 more jobs to its current operation in North Augusta shows the company’s commitment to the Central Savannah River Area. This news proves yet again why South Carolina provides an ideal environment for large employers. The combination of low taxes, right-to-work protections, worker training, and less regulatory red tape are all factors that give the Palmetto State a competitive advantage." Duncan added, "A business environment that fosters certainty in the economy is critical for job creation. South Carolina’s efforts to protect worker’s rights by combating big labor, addressing frivolous lawsuits, and eliminating excessive regulations will spur more investments like TTX in the state. As a former small-business owner, I know all too well how damaging government red tape can be for job creation. I’m excited that TTX has continued to invest and create jobs here in the Palmetto State."
02.10.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), the chairman of the Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee, released the following opening statement for today’s hearing on military resale programs: “Today, the Subcommittee on Military Personnel will conduct its second hearing on non-appropriated fund activities and will turn its attention to commissaries and exchanges—the Department Of Defense’s military resale operations. “I believe that the commissaries and exchanges are as essential to the health of a military community and combat capability as the morale, welfare, and recreation programs that the subcommittee examined during yesterday’s hearing. “Similarly, we also expect the exchange and commissary systems to pursue efficiency during this era of increased budget austerity because we want these operations to provide the best service and value to service members and their families. “However, it must be recognized that the exchanges are not big consumers of appropriated dollars and calls for the exchanges to save appropriated dollars should be answered with factual justifications. “There are analysts who are calling for more reductions in appropriated funding from the commissary system or have questioned the need for the military to operate commissaries at all. “I believe that the Defense Commissary Agency is a model of efficiency in our government with a budget that is less than what it was 10 years ago when inflation is considered. Service member surveys consistently rate it as one of the most highly valued benefits offered by the military that delivers over 30 percent in grocery savings to families, servicemembers and veterans. “I believe, if you eliminated the Defense Commissary Agency, you would have to invent another benefit of equal impact on retention and the chances are it would not be as effective or efficient. “In addition to learning more about the value of exchanges and commissaries and the need to prove they are factually justified, the resale community has other challenges that we also hope to learn more about today. “We intend to explore continuing concerns about the (1) adequacy of funding for recapitalization, (2) renewed interest in pursuing exchange consolidation, and (3) the negative impact on vendors of the 3 percent tax withholding imposed by the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005.” ###
02.09.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), the chairman of the Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee, released the following opening statement for today’s hearing on Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) programs within the Department of Defense (DoD): “The Subcommittee on Military Personnel will begin the 2011 hearing cycle with two hearings on Department Of Defense’s non-appropriated fund activities. Today, we will focus on Morale, Welfare, and Recreation programs. Tomorrow, the subcommittee will turn its attention to commissaries and exchanges—DOD’s grocery and department stores. “This subcommittee has always viewed the wide range of programs that comprise the military morale, welfare, and recreation, or MWR community as essential elements within a healthy military community. The subcommittee remains strongly committed to supporting these programs. “However, it is clear that the DoD has correctly crossed over into a new era of austerity marked by increased fiscal scrutiny of all programs and an unrelenting pursuit of increased budget efficiency. As a recipient of appropriated funds, MWR programs will be subjected to increased pressure to maintain effectiveness while operating more efficiently. “While demands for increased effectiveness and efficiency are to be expected, I fear that misperceptions about the absence of a link between MWR programs and combat readiness will place those programs as greater risk of being cut too deeply. I believe that vibrant MWR programs are critical to the health of the military community they support and that superior combat capability is directly dependent on the strength of the military community. “We must not allow MWR programs to become easy targets for the budget cutters. Certainly, there must be cuts and identifying the programs to be reduced will require difficult decisions. It is my hope that MWR managers are prepared to make those decisions and demonstrate the willingness to find savings. But those managers must also be prepared to fight hard to factually justify the programs that are truly critical to service members and their families. “We hope to learn more about the strategy that MWR managers will pursue in the coming months to meet the demands of this new era of budget austerity.” ###
01.19.2011	U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following statement today following the release of new data on suicides by the U.S. Army: I continue to be extremely concerned with the number of suicides among the members of our armed forces. I applaud the aggressive steps the Army has taken to address this tragic problem, and I appreciate the transparency it has shown in regards to releasing the data. “I remain cautiously optimistic that the Army's efforts are working for active duty soldiers. However, I am deeply saddened by the rise in suicides among National Guard soldiers and reservists, family members, and civilians. “Having recently spoken with Army leaders on this important issue, I am committed to working with them to reverse this terrible trend.”
01.19.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) responded to the House passage of the Repeal Job-Killing Health Care Law Act. “Today, the voice of the American people was heard on Capitol Hill. I am proud to have cast my vote in favor of the Repeal Job-Killing Health Care Law Act. “If fully implemented, the administration’s current health care law would cost the American taxpayers almost $2.6 trillion. And it does very little in regards to alleviating the pressure rising health care costs place on the federal deficit. To the contrary, it would add an additional $701 billion to the deficit in its first ten years. “Independent analyses have determined the health care law would cause significant job losses for the national economy. Drowning small businesses in over 10,000 pages of new regulations and unnecessary paper work is not the way to put our country back on the path to prosperity. With unemployment near ten percent, Congress can now focus on limiting spending and growing the national economy. “This was a historic vote. The administration’s current health care law is not good policy for the people of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. I am proud to stand alongside Speaker Boehner and support our Leadership’s efforts to repeal the current health care law.”
01.10.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after observing the moment of silence on behalf of the victims of the shooting in Tucson, Arizona. “This morning, my family and I, along with members of my staff, observed the moment of silence for the innocent victims of the shooting in Tucson. I am deeply saddened by the news regarding my colleague Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. I ask for all Americans to take a moment and recognize those who passed and those still fighting for their lives as a result of this tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of all involved.”
01.07.2011	This past Wednesday, Representative Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced H.R. 178, the ‘‘Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act.” Current policy requires surviving spouses of service members killed in the line of duty or from a service-connected cause to forfeit the Survivor Benefit Pension annuity. This proposed legislation eliminates the so-called, “Widow’s Tax.” Current policy allows for an amount up to $1,000 per month to be off-set from a surviving spouse’s pay. This creates a substantial burden for the surviving spouses of those brave service members that have made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty or from a service-connected cause. Wilson stated, “Military members make necessary arrangements for their spouses to be taken care of in the event of their death. We owe it to these fallen heroes to carry out their wishes and to ensure their expectations are fully met. Having introduced this bill as my first piece of legislation in the new Congressional session, this issue will remain on the forefront of my priorities.”
01.06.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03) released the following statements regarding the recent announcement that the TTX Company added 200 new jobs to the area: Wilson stated, “The recent announcement of job creation by the TTX Company is great news for Aiken County. Adding 200 more jobs to its current operation in North Augusta shows the company’s commitment to the Central Savannah River Area. This news proves yet again why South Carolina provides an ideal environment for large employers. The combination of low taxes, right-to-work protections, worker training, and less regulatory red tape are all factors that give the Palmetto State a competitive advantage.” Duncan added, “A business environment that fosters certainty in the economy is critical for job creation. South Carolina’s efforts to protect worker’s rights by combating big labor, addressing frivolous lawsuits, and eliminating excessive regulations will spur more investments like TTX in the state. As a former small-business owner, I know all too well how damaging government red tape can be for job creation. I’m excited that TTX has continued to invest and create jobs here in the Palmetto State.”
01.06.2011	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) welcomed the passing of H. Res. 22, a resolution to cut Congress’ budget. The legislation slashes Congressional office budgets by five percent and will immediately save taxpayers an estimated $35 million. Wilson went one step further and committed an additional five percent cut in the Second Congressional District’s office for a total savings of ten percent for taxpayers. Wilson stated, “As previous Congresses have demonstrated, uncontrollable government spending and record deficits will not create jobs. Now is the time to stop the spending spree in Washington. Republicans in Congress are choosing to lead by example by cutting Congress first. These cuts will save taxpayers $35 million on the first day of the new session. “Americans across the country are tightening their financial belts, it’s time Congress does the same. In order to reverse the spending binge in Washington, sacrifice is required by all. To show my commitment to fiscal restraint, the office of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina will be cutting an additional five percent from its budget for the 112th Congress. “The federal government should not be ballooning in size at a time when the national unemployment rate is so high. Leadership in the new Congress is making great strides toward limiting spending. In leading by example, this measure is a great way to begin the new legislative session.”
12.31.2010	The House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct announced it is dismissing the issue before it regarding Congressman Joe Wilson. Wilson released the following statement following the Committee's dismissal: "I appreciate members of the Committee on Standards for thoroughly examining the matter brought before them. There was never any doubt in my mind that this matter would be dismissed. Democrat Committee Chair Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) confirmed my belief by stating, ‘The evidence presently before the Committee does not support a determination that you violated any law, rule, regulation, or other applicable standard of conduct.' I have maintained throughout this process that I did not violate any rules, regulations, or laws." ###
12.31.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement in regards to the passing of South Carolina textile icon Roger Milliken: "Roger Milliken will be remembered as a visionary for the textile industry with his innovations. However, he was also a courageous and ardent supporter of the two party system in South Carolina. His early financial support was instrumental in establishing the state's Republican Party. Roger was a forward thinker in promoting limited government and conservative principles. In addition, his extraordinary success helped create opportunities for the people of South Carolina. My thoughts and prayers are with the Milliken family in this difficult time." ###
12.22.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) has announced three press conferences on Monday, January 3, 2011, in the Second Congressional District to unveil his legislative agenda for 2011: 2011 Legislative Agenda Press Conferences Monday, January 3rd 10:00 a.m. West Columbia Richard's Automotive Shop - 1188 Sunset Boulevard 803-794-1415 12:00 p.m. Orangeburg Henry's Travel Plaza - 1935 Old Edisto Drive 803-534-5877 3:00 p.m. Beaufort Earl's Body Shop - 110 Industrial Village Road 843-524-7155 ###
12.21.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after being appointed Chairman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee by House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25) and Republican Leadership: "I am honored to be named the next Chairman for this Subcommittee to enhance the quality of life for military personnel. Representing four military installations in South Carolina's Second Congressional District, I understand the need to maintain the most responsive and capable military in the world. As such, my goals will be to ensure affordable access to health care for members of the military, their families and veterans. I would like to sustain the quality of life and protect benefits for military families, and I am pleased to be working with such a talented group of leaders on the committee to achieve these goals," Wilson stated. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon welcomed Wilson to the post saying, "I am thrilled to have Joe serve as Chairman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee. Throughout his tenure in Congress, he has been committed to our brave men and women in uniform and their families. I look forward to working with him closely on military personnel issues in the 112th Congress," said House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25). ###
12.21.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after being appointed Chairman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee by House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25) and Republican Leadership: “I am honored to be named the next Chairman for this Subcommittee to enhance the quality of life for military personnel. Representing four military installations in South Carolina’s Second Congressional District, I understand the need to maintain the most responsive and capable military in the world. As such, my goals will be to ensure affordable access to health care for members of the military, their families and veterans. I would like to sustain the quality of life and protect benefits for military families, and I am pleased to be working with such a talented group of leaders on the committee to achieve these goals,” Wilson stated. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon welcomed Wilson to the post saying, “I am thrilled to have Joe serve as Chairman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee. Throughout his tenure in Congress, he has been committed to our brave men and women in uniform and their families. I look forward to working with him closely on military personnel issues in the 112th Congress,” said House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25). ###
12.21.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 21, 2010 (Washington, DC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the U.S. Census Bureau announced congressional apportionment totals confirming South Carolina’s population growth and gain in Congressional representation: “After listening to the announcement this morning, South Carolina will receive an additional seat in Congress. “After 80 years, it appears the state will regain its seventh Member. I am looking forward to having this Congressional seat added to our delegation. The people of South Carolina will now be able to have another advocate on their behalf in Washington. “Growing our representation on Capitol Hill is a key factor in achieving goals for the people of the Palmetto state. It now means our state has a seventh voice fighting for causes that matter most to the residents of South Carolina with a new district on the fast-growing coast. “Moving forward, the General Assembly will have the task of re-districting the current Congressional map. I am confident in its ability and would like to offer any assistance I can,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
12.20.2010	U.S. Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.), the current Ranking Member of House Armed Services Committee, and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the top Republican on the committee’s Military Personnel Subcommittee, today responded to Senate passage of legislation repealing the Pentagon’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy. "Considering the lack of rigorous oversight by the Armed Services Committee up to this point, it will be critical for the civilian leaders at the Department of Defense to stand firm to ensure the implementation process does not create any distractions for our troops fighting on the frontlines in Afghanistan and Iraq,” said McKeon. “Going forward, the pace must be driven by the military services and the best interests of our troops in combat; and the Armed Services Committee will conduct the necessary oversight to ensure that is the case." "When deciding whether or not to sign this bill into law, I hope the President thoroughly weighs the level of impact changing such a significant military policy will have on our troops who are fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq," stated Wilson. "There is much more information to examine and many more conversations to have with military leaders in order to ensure there is no impact on military readiness, recruitment, and morale going forward." ###
12.09.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today celebrated the Department of the Navy announcement that Beaufort will base X F-35 Joint Strike Fighter squadrons and X training squadrons. "One of my greatest honors in Congress has been working to ensure that the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort has a vibrant future. This includes working with local legislators, the Beaufort Chamber of Commerce, county and municipal officials, and Senator Lindsey Graham to present a compelling case to military leaders that Beaufort is the strongest choice to base the Joint Strike Fighter and training squadrons. "The Department of the Navy had several options to choose from and I am thrilled military leaders chose the option that makes the most logistical sense and greatly benefits this historic Lowcountry community. "Beaufort can expect to see over 1500 new jobs and hundreds of private sector high tech jobs, as promoted by the Beaufort Chamber of Commerce led by President Carlotta Ungaro and the Military Enhancement Committee chaired by General Garry Parks. I thank them both for their tireless work. "What an exciting day for Lowcountry residents and the ‘Fighter family' as we celebrate the ‘Sound of Freedom' in South Carolina," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
12.03.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Department of Labor reported that the unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent in November: "Liberals clearly didn't get the message on November 2nd as we continue to see their efforts to raise taxes during this grueling economic environment. Perhaps this distressing unemployment increase is the air horn that will finally deliver the message to stop spending and pass tax relief, not hikes. "Implementing record tax hikes as unemployment rises is foolish at best. Hardworking families and small business owners need direct relief and efforts to raise taxes should immediately cease. "I look forward to working with the new Republican Majority in January to quickly eliminate the job creation barriers and record spending that perpetually strangles the life out of our economy," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson has outlined a job creation plan that offers incentives and tax cuts to small business owners to hire more employees and gives American families more money to invest. See his plan here and pass it along to Speaker Nancy Pelosi. ###
11.30.2010	Urge Democratic Congressional Leaders to Show Restraint on Significant Change to Military Policy in Waning Days of 111th Congress Washington, D.C.-The top Republicans on the Armed Service Committee and the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel today called for vigorous Congressional oversight of the Department of Defense's newly-released "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" report and urged Democratic Congressional leaders to delay any attempts to repeal the law until Congress can hold hearings on the Pentagon's recommendations. Members and staff of the committee were briefed earlier today on the Pentagon's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" report by Department of Defense General Counsel Jeh Johnson and U.S. Army Europe Commanding Officer General Carter Ham, who were tapped by Secretary of Defense Gates to lead the review. "We appreciate the efforts of Mr. Johnson and General Ham to collect input from America's military personnel and their families. The seriousness and professionalism by which they completed their task should now be replicated in the United States Congress," stated Rep. Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-Calif.), the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee. "Today's briefing and the release of the Pentagon's report are the first steps in what should be a comprehensive process to study whether implementing these recommendations would undermine military readiness or negatively impact the war efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq." Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, stated: "Using the last days of a lame duck Congress to hastily repeal ‘Don't Ask Don't Tell' would be highly irresponsible. Today's Pentagon report must be thoroughly examined by the committees of jurisdiction to determine potential impacts on military recruitment, readiness, and morale. Lawmakers and military leaders need to have as much information as possible before any action is taken on such a significant military policy." McKeon continued, "Democratic leaders in Congress have indicated that they will try to rush to repeal 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' in the waning days of the 111th Congress. This would be irresponsible. As Secretary Gates acknowledged earlier this year, the decision to repeal the law is Congress's decision. Further, Gates told our committee that it's ‘vitally important, in part because it will enable us, should the Congress change the policy, to be able to tell our men and women in uniform, this is the view of the elected representatives of the United States of America.'" "Just as Secretary Gates had an opportunity to conduct a thorough review of the implications of repealing ‘Don't Ask, Don't Tell,' Congress must now exert its own due diligence so we understand the ramifications of overturning the law. The House Armed Services Committee should immediately schedule hearings in order to begin the oversight process necessary to handle an issue of this magnitude," concluded McKeon.
11.30.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after encouraging Speaker Nancy Pelosi to immediately hold a vote on the bipartisan issue of extending the adoption tax credit: "When it comes to the adoption process, lawmakers should work to advance, not hinder, the dream of a family. While extremely rewarding, the adoption process can be extremely expensive, often pricing out hardworking individuals and couples. "Congress must extend and make permanent the adoption tax credit to ease the financial obstacles average families face when considering adopting a child. "The desire to see children grow up in healthy, happy environments with loving parents knows no party boundaries. I urge Speaker Pelosi to immediately schedule a vote on this issue to keep the dream of parenting alive," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson, an adoptive father, sent this letter to Speaker Pelosi urging an immediate vote on the adoption tax credit. Wilson is in favor of a full extension of all the tax cuts included in the 2001 and 2003 legislation, especially the adoption tax credit.
11.23.2010	In opposition to the Nuclear Regulatory Chairman (NRC) Gregory Jaczko’s efforts to shut down Yucca Mountain’s license application review, Congressman Joe Wilson has agreed to cosponsor H.Res.1732 to resist this unilateral decision. “The Nuclear Regulatory Chairman has no authority to unilaterally shut down Yucca Mountain. Chairman Jaczko is operating under a fiscal budget proposal that has yet to be approved by Congress and therefore does not carry the force of the law. “I find his attempts to terminate the review and throw away taxpayer dollars quite alarming. “This Administration should not turn their backs on a $10 billion investment and a 23-year bipartisan agreement to use Yucca Mountain as the nation’s nuclear waste depository,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
11.17.2010	November 17, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the GOP leadership elections: "Tired of lawmakers ignoring their pleas to stop the borrowing and excessive spending, the American people amplified their voices on November 2nd to command a new way forward. Hardworking taxpayers and families across the country sent a strong message to lawmakers who lost touch and forgot that ‘change' is an action verb. "The Republican Conference, with their ears to the American people, selected leaders today who will transform the way business is done in Washington. In his role as Speaker of the House, I'm confident that John Boehner will offer principled leadership to curb spending and create jobs. As Majority Leader, Eric Cantor will pursue opportunities to return money back to the pockets of taxpayers and continue the fight for increased transparency. "The election of South Carolina's Tim Scott to the leadership team is particularly thrilling for our great state. Congressman-Elect Scott's business background and proven record of bringing jobs to South Carolina is a great addition to the GOP leadership table. I look forward to working with him to promote conservative fiscal policies and expanded freedom," said Congressman Joe Wilson.
11.11.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement as America honors its heroes this Veterans Day: "Americans across the country will gather today to honor veterans and their service to our great nation. While these Veterans Day gatherings take place once a year, we are grateful for these brave heroes each and every day. "It is truly an honor to represent so many veterans and men and women currently serving in South Carolina. Enhancing the lives of these heroes and providing the tools necessary for our armed forces to maintain its superiority is my top priority. "This Veterans Day, I hope we all take time to remember the sacrifice that has been made to preserve our nation's liberty and justice," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Wilson is to attend the City of Columbia's Veterans Day Parade this afternoon and his column honoring those who served appeared today in The Island Packet. ###
11.05.2010	November 5, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Department of Labor announced the October jobs report: "When it comes to job creation, the American people made it perfectly clear that they are no longer willing to play the waiting game. For the 15 straight months that unemployment has been above 9.5 percent, liberal leaders in Congress continued to push more strangling regulations and more government spending. This misguided approach is about to come to an abrupt end. "The new way forward will include passing tax relief for all Americans and providing incentives to businesses to hire more employees. Any positive gain is welcome, but with unemployment remaining at 9.6%, there is much to do, and fast," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson has outlined a job creation plan that offers incentives and tax cuts to small business owners to hire more employees and gives American families more money to invest. See his plan here ###
10.25.2010	October 25, 2010 (Beaufort, SC) - Following widespread reports of states failing to comply with federal law regarding military ballots, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), the top Republican on the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee, today announced he would call for a hearing on the military voting process. "Our brave men and women serving America's interests overseas should have their votes counted accurately and in a timely manner. When it comes to ensuring military votes, compliance is non-negotiable. "I was extremely disappointed to learn that many states across the nation have failed to mail ballots to our troops, ultimately denying them a voice in this election. Those fighting to protect America's freedom deserve the right to cast their vote in the very democratic process they protect. "I fully intend to request a hearing in the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee to examine the missteps and discuss ways to ensure this never happens again. Exploring South Carolina's program that allows service members and their families living abroad to receive their ballot by mail, fax, or email, is a great place to start when looking at a model for 2010 and beyond," said Congressman Joe Wilson. The Washington Times has an editorial examining the issue here: https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/oct/18/surrendering-military-votes/
10.08.2010	October 8, 2010 ‘Livin' on a Prayer' is a successful and timeless ‘80s record single, not economic policy Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Department of Labor report revealed 95,000 lost jobs and a 9.6% unemployment rate: "I'm beginning to sound like a broken record each month when the dismal unemployment numbers are announced, but I'll continue to ask, ‘Where are the jobs?' until the road to recovery is finally in sight. "Month after month, with unemployment above nine percent, the American people have been waiting and hoping for liberal lawmakers to finally offer incentives to put people back to work. It's time for liberal leaders to realize that ‘Livin' on a Prayer' is a successful and timeless ‘80s record single, not economic policy. "The time to offer incentives and tax cuts to small business owners and give American families more money to invest is long overdue," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson has outlined a job creation plan that offers incentives and tax cuts to small business owners to hire more employees and gives American families more money to invest. See his plan here and pass it along to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
10.06.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, nominated Epworth Children's Home in Columbia as a 2010 Angel in Adoption. Today, the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) hosted the 12th Annual Angels in AdoptionTM events in Washington, DC. The program honors individuals and organizations from all around the country for working tirelessly on behalf of children in U.S. foster care. "Advancing adoption in America is extremely important and my personal connection to the issue has made it one of my chief priorities. For over a century, Epworth Children's Home in Columbia has provided an environment for children full of love and learning opportunities. 78 children call Epworth ‘home' and I thank all of the dedicated staff and volunteers for creating a stable and safe community in which children can thrive," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Information on Epworth Children's Home can be found here and the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute here. ###
10.01.2010	Graham, Wilson to Discuss F-35s in Beaufort U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham and Congressman Joe Wilson will hold a press conference on Monday, October 4 to discuss the future of F-35B's in Beaufort. The Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) in Beaufort plays a critical role in our national security operations. Senator Graham and Congressman Wilson are optimistic that, if chosen, South Carolina and the Beaufort MCAS are well prepared to support the F-35B Squadrons. Who: U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) Congressman Joe Wilson Local officials in support of the F-35 mission What: Hold press conference to discuss Beaufort Marine Air Station and F-35s. When: Monday, October 4 10:00 a.m. Where: Beaufort Chamber of Commerce 1106 Carteret Street Beaufort, South Carolina #####
09.24.2010	The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation's leading small business association, named Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America's small business owners in the 111th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Congressman Wilson for "standing up for small business." In announcing the winners of the coveted Guardian of Small Business award, Danner said: "In the 111th Congress, Congressman Joe Wilson proved that he is a champion of small business. The Guardian of Small Business Award is a token of deep appreciation that small business owners have for elected officials who promote and protect their right to own, operate, and grown their businesses." Accepting the award, Wilson added: "I am honored to receive the Guardian of Small Business award from the nation's voice of small business. NFIB's work to create long-term private sector jobs and protect small business owners in South Carolina is appreciated by hardworking residents across our great state," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Information on the award can be found here.
09.23.2010	A New Way Forward Inspired by Hardworking Americans Across the Country September 23, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) joins House Republicans to support A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda centered around the top priorities of hardworking Americans across the country. The Pledge, which Wilson wholeheartedly supports, offers concrete solutions for immediate action to create jobs, stop frivolous spending, enhance national security, improve health care, and reform a broken Washington. The full agenda can be viewed here. "After months of double digit unemployment and free-for-all spending sprees, it is quite obvious that a new way forward is very much needed. Through town hall meetings, district tours, and interactive forums, I've heard the pleas from hardworking Americans about their desire to correct Washington's misplaced priorities. "Today, House Republicans have formally answered that call with detailed solutions to create private sector jobs, reform health care, rein in reckless spending, and strengthen national security. Our pledge to create jobs will be achieved through tax relief for families and small business owners. Our pledge to protect the prosperity of future generations involves bringing down the budget deficit. And our pledge to keep America safe will include strengthening border security and missile defense. "I want to thank all Americans who have contributed their ideas to this pledge and encourage you to continue to help us fight for these solutions starting today," said Congressman Joe Wilson.
09.22.2010	9.22.10 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today applauded the decision by the Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future to visit South Carolina and the Central Savannah River Area (CSRA). In July, Wilson sent a letter to the co-chairmen of the nuclear commission to request they hold their September meeting in the CSRA. Wilson released the follow statement upon hearing the announcement: "I am pleased the Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future is planning to visit South Carolina and the CSRA. This is a perfect location for the President's nuclear commission to visit to discuss and review policies related to the storage of nuclear waste," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Chairman General Scowcroft of the Blue Ribbon Commission released this statement: "In January of next year, we will arrange visits to southeastern New Mexico to visit the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant and to Georgia and South Carolina to learn more about the Vogtle Nuclear Power Plant and the Savannah River Site. As we have said before, we believe it is important for the Commission to hear from communities that have a large stake in solving the waste problems and, of course, we started with that at Hanford. We look forward to these visits," said Chairman General Scowcroft. ###
09.21.2010	Wilson Signs Letter to Speaker Pelosi Opposing More Government Spending 9.21.10 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) signed a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi opposing the President's plan to spend more government money to try to create jobs. Wilson encourages Speaker Pelosi to consider passing tax relief and job-creation incentives instead of spending $50 billion more of taxpayers' hard-earned money: "We need to look no further than the failed ‘stimulus' bill for a recent example of how billions in government spending fails to create long-term private sector jobs. Month after month, South Carolinians continue to find themselves without a job. Congress should not let another day, let alone another month, go by without providing job creation incentives and passing tax relief for small businesses and hardworking families," said Congressman Joe Wilson. A copy of the letter opposing President Obama's $50 billion infrastructure plan can be found here.
09.15.2010	September 15, 2010 Moments ago, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and liberals on the committee that determines what amendments will come to the floor, blocked Congressman Joe Wilson's (SC-02) amendment to extend tax cuts for all Americans. "The anticipation over whether or not Congress will extend tax cuts is killing jobs. Small business owners and hardworking families across the country should not have to wait one more day to find out whether or not the largest tax increase in American history is coming their way," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Wilson offered his amendment to extend tax cuts for all Americans to H.R. 4785, the Rural Energy Savings Program Act. ###
09.08.2010	Make the Economic Rebound a Reality 9.8.10 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement supporting Republican Leader John Boehner's plan for immediate action to create jobs and ease economic uncertainty: "After 16 straight months of broken promises, unemployment has remained above nine percent. America's economy has the ability to rebound but this Administration and liberal leaders in Congress continue to drag their feet on solutions. "I applaud Republican Leader Boehner's common-sense job creation plan that will make an economic rebound a reality. The plan is simple: cut spending and keep taxes low, but the outcome could be great if members from both sides of the aisle come together to support this plan. "More government spending to create more government jobs is not the way to get America's economy rolling once again. I fully support slashing government spending by 20% and keeping taxes low for all hardworking Americans who are trying to help this economy rebound," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Republican Leader John Boehner's Plan can be found here. Congressman Joe Wilson has also outlined a job creation plan that offers incentives to small business owners to hire more employees and gives American families more money to invest. See his plan here and pass it along to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
09.03.2010	September 3, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Department of Labor announced the unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent and the U.S. economy lost jobs for the third straight month: "I'm not sure where Administration officials are spending their summer, but here in South Carolina, this is certainly not the ‘Recovery Summer' we were promised. "For 16 straight months, unemployment has been above nine percent. Why the Administration and liberal leadership in Congress isn't talking about job creation plans each and every day is beyond belief. People are hurting and the time to act is now, not later or in another 16 months," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson has outlined a job creation plan that offers incentives to small business owners to hire more employees and gives American families more money to invest. See his plan here and pass it along to Speaker Nancy Pelosi. ###
08.06.2010	August 6, 2010 - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and a representative from Congressman Joe Wilson's office (R-South Carolina) met Tuesday with General James T. Conway, Commandant of the Marine Corps, to discuss the future of F-35B's in Beaufort, South Carolina. The Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) in Beaufort plays a critical role in our national security operations. After speaking with General Conway, both Senator Graham and Congressman Wilson are optimistic that, if chosen, South Carolina and the Beaufort MCAS are well prepared to support the F-35B Squadrons. "I appreciate General Conway speaking with Representative Wilson's office and myself about the future of Beaufort Marine Air Corps Station," said Senator Lindsey Graham. "We discussed, in detail, the future of F-35 deployments and how Beaufort fits into the Marine Corps plans. The basing of F-35s in Beaufort remains a top priority for both Joe Wilson and me. I was encouraged by our conversation. The Marine Corps primary option to put new F-35's into Beaufort represents sound, national security policy. While no final decisions have been made, I believe South Carolina is well positioned." "Beaufort's pro-military community, mild climate, and existing facilities make it an ideal spot for F-35B Squadrons. I thank Senator Graham for his efforts to highlight Beaufort's benefits for the military, as well as the quality of life for its soldiers and families. I look forward to expanding the ‘Sound of Freedom' in the Lowcountry and welcome the jobs and community excitement that will surely follow the decision," said Congressman Wilson. MCAS is home to six Marine squadrons and one Navy squadron with an economic impact of $615 million annually. ####
07.30.2010	July, 30, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) supported Republican efforts yesterday to repeal the job-killing mandate in the government health care takeover that requires unnecessary ‘1099' reporting requirements. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) offered this legislative solution, presented on AmericaSpeakingOut.com, as a motion to recommit on H.R. 5893. Ignoring the wishes of hardworking Americans, Washington liberals blocked this small business relief bill from a vote and instead threw in tax hikes before reintroducing it as their own solution: "A strong, bipartisan idea to repeal the piles of paperwork that are smothering small businesses was soiled by Washington liberals who apparently can't let a good idea go unscathed. In a draconian, undemocratic move, Washington liberals blocked this small business relief bill from a vote and then mucked it up with job-killing tax hikes before reintroducing it as their own solution. "I am pleased that Congress is going to correct the paperwork provision in the government health care takeover that is smothering small businesses, but I am disgusted that the liberal majority wouldn't let this bipartisan, common-sense correction pass without adding on job-killing tax hikes," said Congressman Joe Wilson. As a result of the government health care takeover bill, in 2012, small businesses across America will be forced to file an IRS 1099 form for every business and individual to which they make total payments of more than $600 for goods and service. Congressman Wilson supports H.R 5141, stand-alone legislation that corrects the 1099 provision. Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) on the vote: "The Obamacare small business paperwork tax was a mistake that never should have been passed into law in the first place. Its repeal-without additional tax hikes-is the least that Congressional Democrats can do for America's small employers." Wilson opposed the tax hikes Democrats added to this provision and voted against H.R. 5982 that failed the House today. Wilson encourages Speaker Nancy Pelosi to bring up the 1099 relief bill as a stand alone provision to ensure passage and relief for small business owners. ###
07.22.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today urged his colleagues to support extending unemployment benefits by using unused stimulus funds. Wilson thanks Congressman Dean Heller (R-NV) for putting forward an amendment to fully pay for extended unemployment benefits and COBRA premium assistance with unobligated stimulus monies. Unfortunately, Washington liberals blocked this common-sense and cost-saving amendment from even coming to the floor; Wilson urges Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reconsider this obstruction. "Hardworking Americans who have paid taxes for years and years now find themselves needing some assistance in these tough economic times. At the same time, Americans understand that we cannot continue to pile up more debt that will leave our children and grandchildren in even worse shape. A common-sense solution to this challenge was presented today as an amendment to fully pay for an extension of unemployment benefits by using unused stimulus funds. "Unemployment hovers around 10% and 3 million private sector jobs have been lost since the so-called stimulus bill was signed into law. Given this dismal-at-best progress, it is no wonder a new CBS poll shows that 74% of Americans believe that the stimulus has had NO impact or has made things worse. Using unused stimulus funds to extend unemployment benefits would finally be something of a success for this inefficient ‘stimulus' bill. "Unfortunately, this cost-savings proposal was obstructed by Washington liberals who continue their spending spree on a borrowed credit card. "I encourage Speaker Pelosi to stop blocking common-sense, cost-saving proposals and let members of Congress vote on this amendment that is a worthwhile use of unused stimulus funds," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
07.20.2010	July 20, 2010 Wilson's Resolution Congratulating Baseball Team Passes House Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today thanked his colleagues for formally congratulating the University of South Carolina Gamecocks on winning the College World Series by passing House Resolution 1491 by a vote of 400-6, with 2 voting present. A video of Wilson's speech on the House floor in support of the resolution and the USC baseball team can be found here. Excerpts from Wilson's floor speech: "It is with great gratitude that I rise today in support of House Resolution 1491 to formally congratulate the University of South Carolina's baseball team for an impressive success at the College World Series. Today's resolution, endorsed by all six members of the South Carolina delegation, to congratulate the University of South Carolina Gamecocks on winning the 2010 NCAA Division I College World Series, is particularly special to me as I am able to honor my alma mater and that of my mother and father and many of the Second Congressional District Staff. The journey to this point hasn't been the easiest for the Gamecocks and history has not been on our side as this is the first time in the school's history that the baseball team earned this great achievement despite going to the College World Series nine times. During the NCAA tournament, the team faced an opening loss to Oklahoma and as a result, had to do the unthinkable: win four consecutive games that included back to back wins against in-state rival Clemson University. The last stop on the journey was UCLA - a highly respected and talented team in the championship series. The Gamecocks had impressive consecutive victories over the Bruins to finish the season with a 54-16 overall record and earn the title of College World Series National Champions! I am extremely proud of the way these student athletes represented our University and our great state. None of this would have been possible without USC's coach Ray Tanner, whose leadership and determination has led to over 600 victories, 11 consecutive post season appearances, and now a national title for the Gamecocks. Tanner's coaching success is complimented by Associate Head Coach Chad Holbrook, and Assistant Coach Mark Calvi." ###
07.14.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement after liberals defeated a proposal to save taxpayers tens of millions of dollars by getting rid of the promotional stimulus signs: "Washington liberals promised the American people the stimulus would create jobs and keep unemployment under eight percent. A year and a half later, with unemployment hovering around double digits, the so-called stimulus has unmistakably failed to create long-term private sector jobs. "But Washington liberals thought they would cleverly come up with propaganda to sell Americans on this failed policy. At a cost of $10,000 a pop, stimulus signs are up nationwide to promote stimulus projects. $20 million could be saved if we eliminated this wasteful use of taxpayer dollars. When it comes to wasteful Washington spending, all signs point to the stimulus. "It is high time for Congress to consider proposals that create long-term private sector jobs instead of wasting money promoting failed policies," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Wilson thanks Congressman Aaron Schock (R-Il) for developing this proposal to eliminate promotional stimulus projects signs to save taxpayers tens of millions of dollars. The proposal was defeated by a vote of 232 to 184. ###
07.01.2010	July 1, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced six town hall meetings he is hosting across South Carolina's Second District to focus on job creation and Washington's reckless spending habits. Wilson invites all residents in South Carolina's Second Congressional District to attend these meetings in their neighborhoods over the 4th of July recess. If residents are unable to attend this community town hall, Wilson encourages taking advantage two new interactive forums designed to give Americans a voice in Congress to share policy ideas: AmericaSpeakingOut.com and YouCut. Columbia: Monday, July 5th @ 6:00 PM Richland Northeast High School / 7500 Brookfield Road, Columbia South Carolina 29223 Lexington: Tuesday, July 6th @ 6:00 p.m. Lexington High School / 2463 Augusta Highway, Lexington, SC 29072 Aiken: Wednesday, July 7th @ 6:00 p.m. Oakwood-Windsor Elementary School / 3773 Charleston Highway, Aiken, SC 29801 Bluffton: Friday, July 9th @ Noon USC Bluffton Campus / 1 University Blvd., Bluffton, SC 29909 North: Saturday, July 10th @ Noon North High School / 692 Cromer Ave., North, SC 29112 Varnville: Saturday, July 10th @ 4:00 p.m. Wade Hampton High School /201 Airport Road, Varnville, SC 29944 ###
06.30.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today expressed his disappointment after the House passed the Conference Report for the financial regulatory bill, H.R. 4173. "By putting Main Street on the hook for Manhattan's Wall Street, Washington liberals once again showed exactly how out-of-touch they are with the needs of hardworking Americans," said Congressman Joe Wilson. "This financial regulatory bill will tie the hands of community banks across the country and will make lending to small business owners close to impossible. Simply put, this bill is a job-killer. This is labeled a ‘reform' bill, but it fails to address two major giants in the financial collapse, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Failing to tackle these two cancerous entities in an overhaul bill is like going in for surgery and still keeping the giant tumor in place." Small business owners and bankers across South Carolina are extremely concerned about the detrimental impact this bill will have on their businesses. Justin Strickland, President of Southern First Bank in Cayce, said, "This bill adds 30 new regulations that will severely limit the ability of small banks to extend credit to South Carolinians. Low income consumers will be particularly hurt by this bill as services like free checking for basic banking accounts will vanish." Hal Stevenson, CEO of Grace Outdoor in South Carolina said, "I appreciate Congressman Wilson's vote against this big bank bailout as it will discourage lending to small businesses. This will have a detrimental impact on job creation throughout South Carolina." There are better reform plans that do not put taxpayers on the hook and focus on personal responsibility. One such idea which had overwhelming bipartisan support in the Financial Services Committee and has320 House cosponsors is H.R. 1207 to audit the Federal Reserve System. This audit is necessary in order to offer transparency to protect taxpayers. Another idea that doesn't hinder growth is H.R. 3310, the Consumer Protection and Regulatory Enhancement Act. This bill would: Provide for the orderly resolution of insolvent non-bank financial institutions through the bankruptcy system, regardless of their size. This would allow large, failing firms to be unwound without wreaking havoc on the broader economy. End taxpayer subsidies of Fannie and Freddie, forcing them to compete with the private sector on a level playing field. Create greater transparency and consistency by consolidating depository institution regulators like the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Comptroller of the Currency into one agency that also possesses the supervisory functions of the Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Strengthen consumer protections by creating an Office of Consumer Protection within the consolidated regulatory agency. ###
06.30.2010	June 30, 2010 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission legal panel ruled yesterday that the U.S. Energy Department cannot withdraw its licensing application for Yucca Mountain to be a permanent nuclear waste repository. In a 47-page order, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board ruled Energy Secretary Steven Chu doesn't have the authority to pull the plug on a process that Congress started when it passed the Nuclear Waste Policy Act in 1982. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) praised this decision, stating, "Politics have been at play when it comes to nuclear waste disposal and I'm pleased that a legal panel has finally ruled based on realities and practicalities." "Thousands of studies and billions of dollars are invested in this repository, including over $1 billion from South Carolina. If we are to be serious about an energy future in America, we must get serious about nuclear power and move forward with Yucca Mountain." Editorials across South Carolina have highlighted the administration's reckless decision to abandon Yucca Mountain. The Post and Courier called President Obama's decision "breathtakingly irresponsible." The Aiken Standard said, "It is time for the president and Department of Energy to listen to the Congressional mandates and the scientific studies and prepare Yucca Mountain for its mission to hold this legacy waste." For more than 25 years, the Energy Department has pursued plans to bury at least 77,000 tons of highly radioactive spent nuclear fuel in tunnels bored beneath an ancient volcanic ridge 90 miles northwest of Las Vegas. The NRC panel noted Tuesday that $10 billion had been spent on the project to date. The states of Washington and South Carolina, plus Aiken County, S.C., the Prairie Island Indian Community of Minnesota and the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners have filed challenges to the NRC against the licensing removal of Yucca Mountain. ###
06.28.2010	June 28, 2010 The Supreme Court rightfully extended the reach of the Constitutional right to keep and bear arms to all 50 states by a vote of 5-4. The case, McDonald v. City of Chicago, is the second ruling on gun rights in three years, and substantially expounds on the 2008 Supreme Court decision in D.C. v. Heller that nullified the handgun ban in our nation's capital. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) applauded the decision, saying, "This ruling from the highest court in the land is a momentous change in the fight to restore gun rights in America. For too long, our Constitutional right to bear arms has been inconsistently applied across the United States, and I am confident this ruling will change that." Coincidentally, this ruling comes on the same day as Elena Kagan's confirmation hearings, raising the profile for debate on the Supreme Court nominee. ###
06.24.2010	June 24, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement as YouCut, a Republican interactive initiative, received its one millionth vote: "The American people have given Washington liberals one million reasons to finally stop this spending spree on a borrowed credit card. "Voting to prohibit spending $10 billion on new IRS agents to enforce the unconstitutional government health care takeover is just one of many proposals that hardworking taxpayers across the country have strongly supported. "I want to thank all South Carolinians who participated in the interactive initiative, YouCut, to give lawmakers ideas on how to save taxpayer money," said Congressman Joe Wilson. This week's YouCut vote prohibited new funding for the IRS to enforce the individual health care mandate, saving taxpayers up to $10 billion. Unfortunately, the proposal was defeated by a vote of 243 to 181. Eight Democrats joined with Republicans to support this proposal. ###
06.22.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), the top Republican on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following statement on General Stanley McChrystal's Rolling Stone article: "It is important for us to stay focused on achieving success in Afghanistan through a multi-dimensional counterinsurgency strategy. Inappropriate comments and interviews offered to the media should not distract us from this goal at such a critical time in our Afghanistan efforts. "The top priority of this Administration and Congress should be supporting our troops on the ground as they face a determined enemy. Congress should immediately pass a clean, non-contentious troop funding bill so our military operations are not disrupted," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson, co-chair of the Afghanistan Caucus, has been to Afghanistan nine times. He is a 31 year veteran of the Army Reserve and Army National Guard with four sons currently serving in the military. ###
06.17.2010	June 17, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a cosponsor of H.R. 5535 to save taxpayers $15 billion by selling excess federal land, released the following statement after Democrats defeated this cost-savings and common-sense proposal: "Today's bill to save taxpayers $15 billion by selling unnecessary federal land should have been a bipartisan no-brainer. Sadly, that wasn't the case as uncompromising Democrats defeated yet another common-sense, cost-savings proposal. "What will finally wake Washington liberals up? It certainly doesn't seem like a $13 trillion debt is doing the trick. "Although the proposal was defeated, hardworking Americans must continue to make their voices heard through YouCut and other outlets until Washington liberals finally get the message to stop this spending spree," said Congressman Joe Wilson. The cost-savings federal land proposal was defeated by a vote of 241-179. ###
06.16.2010	June 16, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) voted yesterday to repeal the provision in the government health care takeover that mandates Americans buy government-run insurance. The motion was voted down by House Democrats on a187-230 vote. Congressman Wilson released the following statement after the vote: "Washington liberals once again ignored the wishes of hardworking Americans by rejecting the popular proposal to repeal the health care takeover provision that forces people to buy government-run insurance. "South Carolinians are being forced to buy government-run insurance by out-of-touch Washington bureaucrats who have no idea what is best for them or their families. "Let's restore the freedom to choose by swapping this government health care takeover for an affordable, patient-centered health care solution," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson has introduced the Siding With American Patients (SWAP) Act to repeal the government health care takeover and replace it with the text from H.R. 3400 - a patient-centered and affordable solution that expands access and continues to cover pre-existing conditions. The Republican proposal that was offered yesterday to repeal the government health insurance mandate was offered as a motion-to-recommit on H.R. 5486. Congressman Dave Camp (R-MI) posted the idea on the America Speaking Out website and many Americans examined the proposal and voted on it. ###
06.11.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released his weekly radio address highlighting reckless spending and liberal leadership's failure to produce a budget. Audio for distribution can be downloaded here. On reckless spending: "In just the first eight months on this fiscal year, the federal government racked up $941 billion in deficit spending. This is on track to an annual deficit approaching last year's record at $1.4 trillion. This cycle of borrowing and spending must stop. America's economy will not start humming again unless we get our fiscal house in order. On lack of a budget: "By failing to govern and pass a fiscally responsible budget, liberal lawmakers are threatening job creation and are exploding spending and deficits. We aren't expecting a Strasburg-like performance from Democrats' budget attempts, but they could at least get in the game." Audio for the weekly radio address can be found and downloaded here for use and distribution. Radio stations and the public can access this actuality by dialing into the actuality line at 202.226.4766 and entering 117006, followed by the pound key (#). ###
06.07.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement highlighting Washington's reckless spending habits and the failure of liberals to act responsibly and draft a budget to address the $13 trillion debt: "While Washington liberals spent Memorial Day recess back home, America's debt topped $13 trillion - closely closing in on our GDP. That means the nation's debt will soon be more than all of America's economic output a year, which is unsustainable. As lawmakers return back to Washington this week, it is high time for liberals to listen to all ideas on how to stop this runaway spending spree. "The American people have offered plenty of suggestions for Speaker Pelosi to consider through innovative and interactive forums like YouCut and AmericaSpeakingOut. Liberals would also be wise to look across the aisle to many ideas Republicans have proposed like a balanced budget amendment and freeze on discretionary spending to start chipping away at this $13 trillion albatross. "A budget blueprint is crucial, particularly in tough economic times; unfortunately it seems that liberals are forgetting a very important part of their job description. Liberals must stop dragging their feet when it comes to passing a fiscally responsible budget and finally get the job done this week," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Check out Bloomberg's chilling chart of the day that illustrates the U.S. debt burden closing in on our GDP.
05.31.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the House Floor in recognition of Memorial Day: "Let us all take time to remember those who have served this Nation in uniform so honorably and selflessly. We are here today enjoying the fruits of freedom because good men and women from the Revolutionary War to present day have put the support of America and the ideals for which she stands above personal desires and preferences. "While estimates vary, it is certain that more than 1 million Americans have died in defense of this Nation. You may have known some of them. If you did, you should count yourself among the privileged. I hope you were as touched by their sacrifices as I have been by those I have known, people like Marine Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Trane McCloud-a military fellow in the congressional office I represent. He was killed in Iraq on December 3, 2006. "To Lieutenant Colonel Trane McCloud and to so many others like him over the years of our history, we owe so much. It is a debt that we can never really repay to extraordinary military families and widows, such as Maggie McCloud. "The only way I know how to even begin to express our thanks is to continue to support to the fullest extent possible those who now serve, to step forward and to publicly acknowledge their dedication and sacrifices for America. We should recognize and be grateful that, due to the sacrifices of American service members, there is a broader spread of democracy and freedom today than in the history of the world, with dozens of new democracies, upon the defeat of Communism in the Cold War, from Poland to Mongolia and Bulgaria to Cambodia. Iraq and Afghanistan have been liberated from totalitarian despots in the global war on terrorism," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson is the son of a World War II Flying Tiger who served in China. Congressman Joe Wilson is a 31-year veteran of the Army Reserve and the Army National Guard and he has four sons currently serving in the military. ###
05.28.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), the top Republican on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following statement following the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act: "I want to thank Chairman Ike Skelton and Ranking Member Buck McKeon for producing an excellent bill in committee to address the needs of America's military men and women. I also thank my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee for supporting my efforts to protect TRICARE from the health care takeover, increase military pay, and require a study on the closure of Yucca Mountain. "Unfortunately, this strong piece of legislation was hijacked by those determined to repeal the long-standing policy of ‘Don't Ask, Don't Tell.' "It is extremely unfortunate that Democrats ignored their elected chairman, Congressman Ike Skelton, and the Service Chiefs about this long-standing policy and shoved it forward for a vote," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Information on Congressman Wilson's TRICARE amendment that was included in the bill language can be found here. Wilson's floor speech on the Yucca Mountain study can be viewed here. ###
05.28.2010	https://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=D6328406-18FE-70B2-A8AA4536C50980B4 Spending, Ron Swanson-styleBy: Rep. Joe WilsonMay 27, 2010 04:44 AM EDT America has a new champion of limited government and spending restraint. For six years straight, Ron Swanson, director of the City of Pawnee’s Parks and Recreation Department, brought his agency in under budget. He set citywide records by spending only 60 cents of his department’s discretionary fund. Regrettably, Swanson is not running for Congress. Instead, he is leading the limited government fight as a fictional character on NBC’s primetime show “Parks and Recreation.” Sure, Swanson has some bizarre ideas about how to save money — like implementing a Chuck E. Cheese-style token operation for city parks and selling City Hall and the zoo animals. But in this current political environment, his outside-the-box thinking and enthusiasm on behalf of taxpayers are something lawmakers should absolutely DVR on Thursday nights. Nontraditional approaches and proposals are crucial if we are going to stop Washington’s spending spree. One creative proposal is AmericaSpeakingOut.com, a Republican online forum that gives Americans a megaphone to amplify their voices and share policy ideas. Given voter frustration with business as usual in Washington, it would be no surprise if the volume were to reach a decibel that Washington liberals could no longer ignore. YouCut, another creative GOP interactive initiative, engaged more than a half-million Americans in Washington’s spending debate. In the first week, 280,000 people “voted” online and by cellphone to save $2.5 billion a year by cutting the new nonreformed welfare program. Unfortunately, Washington liberals turned a deaf ear to these Americans and voted this proposal down. Only nine Democrats joined with the 280,000 Americans to help stop spending money we do not have. Only nine? It makes you wonder if the other 245 Democrats have failed to see the pictures of the riots in Greece — a result of overspending that led, in part, to its economic collapse. Flanked by the trillion-dollar government health care takeover, the $789 billion so-called stimulus bill, and the bankrupt Cash for Clunkers programs, the United States could be headed down that same path. Hard-working taxpayers already have given $127 billion to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, yet the government mortgage giants are asking for more bailout money. The president promised that the health care bill would cost less than $900 billion, yet a nonpartisan analysis recently revealed that the health care legislation will cost $115 billion more than expected. This revelation comes on the heels of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services report, highlighting how national health care costs will increase by $311 billion over the next 10 years because of the health care legislation. Coming up with new approaches to involve the American people directly in the political process is half the battle. To tackle this surging spending spree and put an end to cyclical broken promises, lawmakers must also offer substantive plans to scale back. One such area lawmakers should consider is with the Department of Education and No Child Left Behind. That program has created incentives for states to weaken their standards, has provided too few students with school choice opportunities and has encouraged teachers to “teach to the test.” The best chance for giving each child the opportunity to live up to his or her greatest potential will come not from a Washington bureaucrat but from teachers, local school boards and parental involvement. Instead of spending $64 billion on bureaucratic red tape at the Department of Education, we could give that money directly to local school boards. Next, we can look at implementing a 5 percent, across-the-board spending cut for nondefense, discretionary spending. Implementing a balanced-budget amendment is another common-sense measure we could take to force Congress to live within its means and reduce the deficit. Today, 49 out of 50 states have a balanced-budget requirement. It is high time for the federal government to have one, too. The bottom line is we must get serious about Washington’s spending spree on a borrowed credit card before it is too late. This means delivering more than just rhetoric and finally proposing solutions — even if they are outside the box — to get the conversation rolling, Ron Swanson-style. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) serves on the House Committee on Education and Labor. © 2010 Capitol News Company, LLC
05.25.2010	America Speaking Out and YouCut Amplify Voices of Hardworking Americans Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today applauded the launch of AmericaSpeakingOut.com, another GOP interactive initiative designed to provide Americans with the opportunity to have their voices heard directly and share policy ideas. This online forum follows the recent success of YouCut, a first-of-its-kind project that has engaged 450,000 Americans in the spending debate in Washington. "Using new media tools and interactive forums, Republicans are giving hardworking Americans a megaphone to amplify their concerns and policy ideas. Given current voter frustration with business-as-usual in Washington, it will be no surprise if the volume finally reaches a decibel that Washington liberals can no longer ignore. "I thank Chief Deputy Whip Kevin McCarthy and Republican Whip Eric Cantor for launching these interactive initiatives; I encourage all Americans to speak out and speak up," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
05.21.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released his weekly radio address highlighting the House Armed Services Committee markup of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011, the TRICARE amendment, and voting via YouCut. Audio for distribution can be downloaded here. On NDAA Markup: "This week, the House Armed Services Committee completed our work on the 2011 National Defense Authorization Act. I thank Chairman Ike Skelton and Ranking Member Buck McKeon for working to ensure America's heroes and military families are recognized for their service. "During the committee's work on this important legislation, we presented a ‘Defend America Plan' comprised of several amendments that include: labeling the Fort Hood and Little Rock shootings as part of the Global War on Terrorism; preventing the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay; and demanding strategies to deal with Iran's missile and nuclear threat. On TRICARE Amendment: "I am extremely pleased that my amendment to protect TRICARE from the health care takeover was voted on and approved. While government officials have stated that TRICARE will be protected from the new health care law, I believe a meticulous effort, like my amendment, is necessary to ensure legislative language reflects these public statements and promises of protection. My amendment simply dots all of our ‘I's' and crosses all of our ‘T's' to protect American families. On YouCut: "Unfortunately, not all of the news was good this week - particularly with efforts to rein in out-of-control spending. Washington liberals once again turned a deaf ear to the American people and rejected the proposal to save $2.5 billion a year with the Welfare Reform Restoration Act. This bill, that I cosponsored, was brought to the House floor at the request of 280,000 Americans through YouCut - a first-of-its-kind project to stop wasteful Washington spending." Audio for the weekly radio address can be found and downloaded here for use and distribution. Radio stations and the public can access this actuality by dialing into the actuality line at 202.226.4766 and entering 117006, followed by the pound key (#). ###
05.20.2010	On behalf of America's hardworking taxpayers, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) signed on to cosponsor the Welfare Reform Restoration Act, H.R. 1277. This legislation was brought to the House floor at the request of 280,000 Americans through YouCut - a first-of-its-kind project to stop wasteful Washington spending. "The American people, 280,000 of them to be exact, spoke loud and clear that they are ready to get serious about Washington's reckless spending habits. Unfortunately, Washington liberals once again turned a deaf ear to their requests to stop spending money we do not have. "I want to thank Republican Whip Eric Cantor for his efforts coordinating a program that gives the American people opportunities to have their voices heard directly. I also thank Congressman Tom Price for spearheading this welfare reform restoration legislation," said Congressman Joe Wilson. More information on YouCut can be found at https://www.joewilson.house.gov/
05.19.2010	UPDATE: Wilson's TRICARE AMENDMENT JUST APPROVED IN COMMITTEE MARKUP Washington, D.C.-U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the top Republican on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following prepared remarks for the committee's markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011: "Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon, thank you for the opportunity to share my remarks on the National Defense Authorization for Fiscal Year 2011. This year's markup process has been very open and transparent, and I thank the leadership of both sides for making it such. One thing we all can agree on is that our fighting men and women, today's heroes, deserve our upmost respect, and we owe it to them to ensure they are properly cared for. "As ranking member of the Military Personnel Sub-committee, there are a few issues I would like to highlight with regards to today's mark-up. "The Military Personnel Subcommittee mark-up included a 1.9 percent basic pay raise for the military, as proposed in my bill, H.R. 4427. Also, I am also grateful the committee was able to find mandatory spending offsets to allow the subcommittee mark to include provisions to address reserve component disability retirement issues; to allow for some early reserve retirees to be eligible for TRICARE; and to permit wounded and injured members retained on active duty to earn credit towards early reserve retirement. "In addition, there are a few issues which we did not include in this year's NDAA due to mandatory spending issues and the need to tighten our belts during these economic times, but ultimately still deserve our attention. "First is President Obama's proposal that would have allowed military personnel retired with disabilities, the so-called Chapter 61 retirees, to receive both their full military disability retired pay and VA disability pay. This issue of concurrent receipt has been addressed by this Committee, and while we have been making inroads, there are still many veterans who need our help. This offset discredits a veterans' service, and often places them in a financially strapped position, due to an inability to seek employment elsewhere. "Additionally, it was not possible to eliminate the so-called Widow's Tax that results because surviving spouses are required to forfeit their Survivor Benefit Pension annuity. Current policy results in up to $1,000 per month being off-set from a surviving spouses' pay. This is a substantial burden to widows of service members. Military members planned for their spouses and families to be taken care of in the event of their death, and we owe it to them to ensure that their wishes and expectation are fully met. "Lastly, the issue of retroactive retirement credit for Guard and Reserve soldiers who served after 9/11 is very important to me. These soldiers have answered the call of duty, helping meet the challenges in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as leading efforts in domestic rescue operations, such as Hurricane Katrina. The Guard and Reserve have transformed into an operational force since 9/11, and I believe the soldiers deserve no less for their honorable service than their active duty counterparts. "I understand today's economic climate, and I know Congress must set an example of fiscal responsibility. However, here is what most of America sees: When House leadership deems an issue a priority, the rules can, and are, set aside. Thus, for example, Congress and the President have committed to spending trillions of dollars on a so-called ‘stimulus' bill, ‘Cash for Clunkers' and ‘Caulkers', and a government healthcare takeover, without any seeming concern for mandatory spending offsets. ‘Cash for Caulkers' was funded a billion $6.6 billion and will likely run into the same administrative and funding issues ‘Cash for Clunkers' did. And as we all remember, when ‘Cash for Clunkers' ran out of funds, Congress re-appropriated billions almost immediately. "Again, I realize we need to practice fiscal restraint, but we must also hold other issues to the same litmus test. Because at the end of the day we owe it to our brave men and women in uniform to ensure they know they are not forgotten. I will continue working to keep these issues at the forefront of our priorities." ###
05.18.2010	TRICARE will receive protection from the health care takeover if Congressman Joe Wilson's (SC-02) amendment is approved in tomorrow's House markup of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011. Government officials have publically stated that TRICARE, the health care program for America's military personnel, military retirees, and their dependents, will not be negatively impacted by the government takeover of health care. However, Wilson's amendment takes the necessary steps to ensure the legislative language reflects these public statements and promises. "The health care system for America's military retirees, veterans, and those currently serving in uniform must be protected from any loopholes in the overreaching health care takeover law. One such ambiguity that concerns me is the potential to transfer the military system of delivering health care services from the Department of Defense. The President has promised this is not the case under the government takeover of healthcare, and my amendment explicitly clarifies this in statute. "While government officials have stated that TRICARE will be protected from the new health care law, I believe a meticulous effort, like my amendment, is necessary to ensure legislative language reflects these public statements and promises of protection. "This amendment simply dots all of our ‘I's' and crosses all of our ‘T's,'" said Congressman Joe Wilson. A copy of Congressman Joe Wilson's TRICARE amendment can be found here.
05.17.2010	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) signed on to support the Fair Defense Competition Act sponsored by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Congressman Todd Tiahrt (R-KS). This bi-cameral legislation will require the Department of Defense (DOD) to consider World Trade Organization (WTO) decisions for military acquisitions. Applied to both foreign and domestic companies, this legislation would help level the playing field for American workers by requiring the Pentagon to add the cost of illegal subsidies onto the bid proposal - pursuant to a ruling by the WTO. Wilson discusses the Fair Defense Competition Act: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oiUYlWgLyyM Transcript of Wilson's remarks available upon request
05.13.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released his weekly radio address highlighting the situation in Greece, reckless spending, and Democrats' failure to produce a budget. Audio for distribution can be downloaded here. On failure to produce a budget: "American families can manage to hold full time jobs and still find the time to come around their kitchen tables to develop a household budget; they should certainly expect their lawmakers to do the same thing. So what's the deal? It is because Washington liberals are clearly not ready to get serious about spending." On reckless spending: "When we sit down around our televisions with our children at night, do you find yourself wondering how to explain the images of the riots in Greece? How do you tell your children and grandchildren that it is unsustainable debts and over borrowing that led to Greece's economic collapse? How do you tell them that between the trillion dollar government health care takeover, the $789 billion so-called stimulus bill and the bankrupt cash for clunkers programs, that America could be headed down that same path? Audio for the weekly radio address can be found and downloaded here for use and distribution. ###
05.12.2010	Wilson Opening Statement for Military Personnel Subcommittee Markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 Washington, D.C.-U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), the top Republican on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee's markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011: "Madame Chairwoman, the recommendations contained in your mark are the product of an open, bi-partisan process. It has been a pleasure to work with you in developing them. "You have already provided the major highlights, but I want to also focus on some of the more important recommendations in the mark. "I want to thank you for including in your mark a 1.9 percent basic pay raise for the military, as proposed in my bill, H.R. 4427. I know that that there is growing opposition to increasing the basic pay of the military above the by-law requirement on the assertion that military pay now exceeds that of comparable civilian jobs. That's a false comparison and I would challenge anyone to find a civilian job that has the same set of requirements and risks as those experienced by our military personnel. For me, the assertion that personnel costs are crowding out the ability to fund other defense priorities should not be solved by asking military personnel to take less, but for a Defense budget that provides both the personnel and other requirements to fully defend this nation. "I am also grateful that the committee was able to find a small amount of mandatory spending offsets to allow your mark to include provisions to address reserve component disability retirement issues; to allow for some early reserve to be eligible for TRICARE; and to permit wounded and injured members retained on active duty to earn credit towards early reserve retirement. "Despite all the good things in this mark, I must raise my disappointment that we were unable to address some key issues involving mandatory spending, such as President Obama's proposal that would have allowed military personnel retired with disabilities, the so-called Chapter 61 retirees, to receive both their full military disability retired pay and VA disability pay. Nor was it possible to eliminate the so-called Widow's Tax that results because military survivors are required to forfeit their SBP annuity. I intend to attempt to address these issues at the Full Committee mark-up. "Despite my reservations and concerns, this is an excellent mark and I intend to support it." ###
05.07.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics released the April report showing 290,000 added jobs but an increased unemployment rate of 9.9%: “During these tough economic times, receiving news about added jobs is most welcome. However, what I don’t want is for us to get wound up over what could be a mirage. I am seriously concerned that these numbers could reflect short-term government jobs created by new Census workers and other additional government employees. “Congress must act responsibly to ensure that we offer incentives to create long-term, private sector jobs here in America. If we have any hope of seriously turning this economy around, we must make tough spending decisions to solve our own debt crisis before the calamity in Greece is seen right here in our backyard,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
05.06.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today after voting against H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010: "The cost of this legislation, $6.6 billion, is entirely too high at a time when Washington must get serious about spending. Despite recent testimony from the administration's ‘fiscal commission' about America's dangerous fiscal state and the need for serious sacrifice, Washington liberals kept up their old habits today and passed another billion dollar bill that America cannot afford. "I support the bill's intent to encourage energy efficiency, but I believe there are other ways to achieve our energy goals without spending $6.6 billion. Tough choices are needed to curb Washington's spending habits and today's vote was one such choice," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
05.06.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today received the American Conservative Union Ratings Award for 2009. The American Conservative Union, ACU, the nation's largest and most powerful grassroots conservative organization today held ceremonies on Capitol Hill to present awards to those Members of the United States Senate and the U.S. House who earned high ratings on ACU's annual ratings of Congress for the 111th Congress. "This award is a reflection of Representative Joe Wilson's consistent support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues of concern to grass roots conservatives in 2009. At a challenging time when the fundamental principles on which the American system of government are being challenged, Representative Joe Wilson stands with those who are trying to preserve those principles," said David A. Keene, Chairman of the American Conservative Union. Congressman Joe Wilson was honored to receive the award and appreciates the efforts of ACU. "I'm honored to receive this award from ACU and thank Chairman David Keene for his leadership. I will continue to fight to restore power back to the people and away from Washington bureaucrats," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Pictures of the award presentation can be found here.
05.03.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today expressing his appreciation of Boeing's continued economic commitment to South Carolina. Boeing announced this morning that it has chosen South Carolina to serve as the assembly location of the 787 Dreamliner - creating 150 jobs in South Carolina. "Today's announcement from Boeing to manufacture 787 Dreamliner parts in our great state will create 150 jobs and enhance South Carolina's aerospace industry. The South Carolina team will manufacture crucial interior parts that include stow bins, video control stations, and closets. I'm confident South Carolina's team will do a great job for Boeing and the industry. I thank Boeing for their continued investment in South Carolina," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
04.29.2010	Commends 43rd Anniversary of Reunification and Calls for Relocation of Embassy Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today introduced H.Con.Res. 271 to commemorate the 43rd anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem and to begin the process of relocating the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. “A true testament to the power of democracy, Israel regularly holds free and fair elections and promotes the exchange of ideas. As a trusted ally, Israel and the United States have enjoyed a strategic partnership based on shared mutual values and respect. This relationship has continued to strengthen over the last 62 years, and it is critical that America continues to nurture this relationship amongst friends. “Fostering this important relationship means beginning the process of relocating the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem and celebrating reunification. Jerusalem, a city of great regional importance, is revered by Jews, Christians, and Muslims alike; America must stand with Israel as they have a right to take necessary steps to prevent any future division of Jerusalem,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. H.Con.Res. 271 has 26 cosponsors. ###
04.23.2010	April 23, 2010 Americans Abroad Caucus Co-Chairs, Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) sent a letter to Chairman Barney Frank and Ranking Member Bachus of the Financial Services Committee, of which Rep. Maloney is a senior member, requesting a hearing to look at current U.S. banking laws and regulations that may prevent Americans living overseas from accessing U.S. banking services. The Caucus Co-Chairs' efforts, stretching across two administrations, to resolve these issues have not received a satisfactory response. Despite assurances from the Treasury Department that Americans abroad are not restricted by current U.S. regulations, there continue to be increasing numbers of American citizens overseas being denied access to basic banking services. "That Americans living overseas are being denied banking services in U.S. banks, and increasingly in foreign banks, is unacceptable," Rep. Maloney said. "We are urging Chairman Frank to hold hearings to examine these issues and take action to ensure all Americans have access to the same banking services." "I hope Chairman Frank will hold hearings to examine the unnecessary roadblocks to many Americans living abroad continue to face not only at U.S. banks, but increasingly at foreign banks as well. The requests for assistance continue to come in at a startling rate and I believe it is crucial for the Financial Services Committee to review these circumstances and work to resolve the roadblocks," said Congressman Joe Wilson. The full letter sent to the Treasury Department under the former administration and their response. The full letter and response sent to the Treasury Department under the current administration is viewable here and here. The full letter sent to the Financial Services Committee requesting a hearing. Background. After being contacted by Americans living abroad that have been denied accounts or have had existing accounts closed, often with Patriot Act provisions and the lack of a U.S. address cited as cause, Reps. Maloney and Wilson sent letters to both the current and previous administrations requesting action on this issue. # # #
04.23.2010	April 23, 2010 (West Columbia, SC) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a report highlighting the fact that the government health care takeover will increase health care costs, hurt seniors, and put employers in a position to drop employee coverage: "This report confirms what the American people warned us about for over a year: A government takeover of health care will hurt seniors, skyrocket costs, and force employers to drop coverage. Anxious citizens brought these principle concerns to their lawmakers in Washington - only to be ignored by the liberal majority," said Congressman Joe Wilson. According to the report, national health care costs will increase by $311 billion over the next ten years and will force millions of seniors off of their current Medicare coverage. The Hill newspaper also reports today on how the report suggests that some employers will stop offering health care benefits to their employees. "Dropped coverage and increased costs is not what the American people had in mind when it came to health care reform. It is time to SWAP this government health care takeover for a patient-centered and affordable solution that expands access and continues to cover pre-existing conditions." Congressman Wilson continues to encourage Speaker Pelosi and other liberal leaders to listen to the will of the people and repeal the government health care takeover and work to bring forward bipartisan health insurance reform to lower costs and expand access. One such proposal is Congressman Wilson's Siding With America's Patients (SWAP) Act that repeals the government health care takeover and replaces it with an alternative that welcomes portability, shopping across state lines, and protection of current health plans. ###
04.22.2010	April 22, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today received a first-hand look at Navistar's all-electric delivery truck at an exhibition today on Capitol Hill. "I applaud Navistar's vision and implementation of a vehicle that will help create jobs and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Navistar is a leader in clean vehicle technologies with a record of developing prototypes that inspire those in the clean energy and automotive fields," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Navistar's subsidiary, Pure Power Technologies, is based in Columbia, South Carolina, with a manufacturing plant also located in Blythewood, South Carolina. Click here for a video of the tour and here to view photos on Congressman Wilson's Facebook page. Additional information is available at: www.Navistar.com/newsroom ###
04.21.2010	April 21, 2010 - U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee's hearing on the Administration's Fiscal Year 2011 budget request for the Defense Health Plan: "Thank you, Chairwoman Davis. Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony on the Defense Health Program for Fiscal Year 2011. Although we routinely have an annual hearing on the Defense Health Program, I believe there is nothing routine about the military health system and the extraordinary care it provides to our service members and their families. I have firsthand knowledge of these remarkable military and civilian medical professionals from my son, Addison, who is an orthopedic resident in the Navy. "The subcommittee remains committed to ensuring that the men and women who are entrusted with the lives of our troops have the resources to continue their work for future generations of our most deserving military beneficiaries. I would like to express my deep appreciation to all of the military health system leadership and personnel who are responsible for delivering the highest quality healthcare during these most challenging times. "To begin, I want to commend the Department of Defense for sending us a budget that does not rely on raising TRICARE fees to help finance the Defense Health Program. It appears the Defense Health Program is fully funded; however, I remain concerned a portion of the funding is based on projected savings from several programs that may not be fully realized. I would like to know how the Department of Defense plans to cover any unexpected shortfalls in the Defense Health Program if the savings from initiatives such as federal pricing for pharmaceuticals doesn't materialize. "With that, I am anxious to hear from our witnesses today about the progress the Department has made in developing a comprehensive approach to providing world class health care to our beneficiaries while at the same time controlling costs. I would like to know how the Military Heath System is meeting the medical needs of our beneficiaries today and what process you use for determining the medical requirements of future beneficiaries. I am interested in knowing how you have included the stakeholders in military health care in the discussions about providing world class health care and the future of the Military Health System. "Further, I would like to hear from the witnesses on how the Defense Health Program supports the critical mental health services needed by our service members and their families, particularly the National Guard and reserve members who rely primarily on TRICARE Standard. "I would also like to better understand from our military Surgeons General whether the Defense Health Program will fully support their responsibility to maintain medical readiness, provide healthcare to eligible beneficiaries, provide battlefield medicine to our brave men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan and care for our combat veterans through the long recovery process when they become injured and wounded. "Finally, with regard to TRICARE, which is now regarded as a health care delivery system worthy of emulation, I quite frankly don't understand why the Department of Defense would not want to explicitly protect it from any unintended consequences that may arise from the health care reform law. Congress has already acted to make clear and explicit what the recent health care reform bill did not-that TRICARE meets the statutory requirement for minimum essential health care. The Department of Defense did not object to that recent Congressional action. Now it's time to make explicit in law what President Obama promised would be explicit in the health care reform-the Secretary of Defense would remain in control of the DOD health care program. No one should object to Congress making that control explicit in law. While some may feel that this is an unnecessary precaution, we owe our military that clearly stated protection." #####
04.20.2010	Armed Services Committee Republicans Draw Attention to New Report on Iran's Military 4.20.10 Washington, D.C.-U.S. House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-Calif.), Armed Forces Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Turner (R-Ohio), and Republican members on the committee today called attention to elements included in and certain information excluded from the Department of Defense's Military Power Report on Iran. The report, which was mandated in last year's National Defense Authorization Act, is designed to provide Congress and the Administration with an assessment of the Iranian regime's current and future military strategy. Rep. McKeon: "The Pentagon's new report confirms Iran's efforts to support and cultivate terrorist surrogates throughout the Middle East to attack American citizens and interests. The rogue regime has re-armed Hezbollah and provides the terrorist group hundreds of millions of dollars a year. The assessment also makes it perfectly clear that Iran has gone to great lengths to protect and hide its nuclear infrastructure. Nearly as troubling, Iran is developing anti-access, aerial-denial capabilities with its investments in mobile coastal defense cruise missiles, rockets launchers, coastal artillery and ballistic missiles." "Unfortunately, the report failed to include information that is critical to truly assessing Iran's military capability and future intentions. The Department of Defense failed to provide adequate information on the funding provided to each branch of Iran's military, the Revolutionary Guards-Quds Force or the country's special operations forces. Additionally, the report lacked specific information about Iran's regional strategy and military doctrine-and failed to provide a sufficient assessment of Iran's conventional or unconventional capabilities." "In addition to my concerns about what is not included in the report, I'm bothered by the Administration's attempts to downplay Iran's militant ideology in the report. I question the Department's assessment that the goal of the Iranian strategy is ‘the survival of the regime' and its ‘ideological goals have taken a back seat to pragmatic considerations.' This flies in the face of the regime's efforts to export the Ayatollah's radical religious vision beyond Iran's borders." Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.): "Recently released information on Iran's military is a stark reminder of the military and nuclear realities in the region. The Department of Defense's report confirms many concerns including Iran's efforts to hide nuclear infrastructure, their support of terrorist surrogates, and the terrifying investment in a missile that could hit the United States by 2015. Now is the time for the Administration and Congress to put forward an effective strategy to deal with Iran. Additionally, it is imperative that we work vigilantly with our allies and partners around the world to ensure any measures dissuade Iran from continuing to go down this dangerous road." Rep. Mike Turner (R-Ohio): "Despite the Administration's insistence last September that the long-range missile threat was slower to develop, the Administration's own report confirms that Iran could develop and test an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) capable of reaching the U.S. by 2015. Therefore, I remain gravely concerned that Administration's Phased Adaptive Approach is not designed to protect our homeland until 2020. I will look to include specific initiatives in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011to address Iran's development of missile capabilities and the ensure the U.S. homeland and our Allies are adequately protected before the threat develops." Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.): "The report released yesterday highlighting Iran's ability to reach the United States with a long range ballistic missile confirms what we already know - that Iran will stop at nothing to demonstrate its military capability. Whether it is funding insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan, Hezbollah in Lebanon, or Hamas in Gaza, or continuing to develop nuclear capabilities, Iran has been and continues to be the largest state sponsor of terrorism and a threat to the entire civilized world. And yet, this Administration continues to believe that diplomacy is the answer. Now, based on reports from Secretary Gates, we are in a situation in which we are unprepared to deal with their military advances. It seems clear to me that the time for diplomacy is over. We need to enforce sanctions that have teeth such as prohibiting refined petroleum from being imported into the country." Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.): "I am deeply concerned that the DOD's Military Power Report on Iran leaves conspicuously absent several key factors, including the radical ideology that motivates Iran's leaders and its military, which should impact the United States' response to the increasingly belligerent and aggressive Iranian regime. Ignoring key facts about Iran's conventional and unconventional military strategy could have disastrous implications for our foreign policy toward Iran, the world's greatest state sponsor of terrorism and, I believe, the greatest threat to freedom and security we face today. The last remaining window we have to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear power and transferring that knowledge to terrorists all over the world is rapidly closing. I urge the Administration to adopt every possible sense of urgency when addressing the Iranian threat." Rep. Bill Shuster (R-Pa.): "The Iranian regime has done nothing to prove itself as anything but a threat to the United States and our allies in the Middle East and Europe. The Administration is doing a disservice to our military by failing to produce a candid report on the military strength of the Iranian regime," said Congressman Bill Shuster. "I am particularly concerned that the Administration's report omits significant information about their development and deployment of active denial systems that could defeat our inventory of short and long range missile systems. This is critical information that will have a important impact on the security posture of our interests in the Persian Gulf and that of our allies. This omission must be corrected." Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.): "The report confirms what most intelligent observers of world events already know: Iran poses an increasing threat to regional and global stability. The report offers substantive analysis of Iran's attempt to protect and hide its nuclear infrastructure, its growing ballistic missile force, and its continued efforts to export radicalism and terrorism abroad. However, it fails to offer a comprehensive strategy to deal with that imminent threat. We cannot continue to deal with Iran's growing threat on the fly. We must develop a long term approach on how we will stop Iran from threatening global peace and assist Iranian dissidents in their desire for regime change." Rep. John Fleming, M.D. (R-La.): "While I'm glad the Pentagon undertook this assessment, I personally didn't need a report to confirm that the Iranian threat is real and credible. Bottom line is Iran and its extremist regime pose a significant danger to the United States and our allies, particularly Israel. I can only hope that the Democratic majority doesn't shortchange the Department of Defense again this year on key investments in ballistic missile defense, which are essential to countering the growing threat of a nuclear armed Iran. President Obama and his national security team should heed this warning and get serious about Iran." Rep. Tom Rooney (R-Fla.): "We need more specific intelligence about Iran's true military capabilities. We cannot underestimate, as this report does, the militant ideology of Iran's leaders or their desire to do us harm." McKeon and Turner indicated that they will look to include specific initiatives in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 to force the Administration to develop a comprehensive, long-term strategy to deal with Iran's nuclear ambitions and military build-up. The House Armed Services Committee is expected to consider the annual defense policy bill in May. ###
04.01.2010	21% Reimbursement Cut Takes Effect Today for Physicians Starting today, physicians providing care to Medicare and TRICARE patients will face a 21% reimbursement cut. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) called for a permanent fix to this flawed reimbursement formula. "For too long, Washington liberals have ignored the need to permanently fix the physician reimbursement formula; today physicians will feel the impact of their indolence," said Congressman Joe Wilson. "It may be April Fool's Day, but this is no laughing matter. I'm afraid physicians facing such extreme cuts will regrettably have to stop serving Medicare and TRICARE patients. In addition to repealing the government health care takeover and swapping it with a patient-centered plan, Wilson's Siding With America's Patients (SWAP) Act also includes a fully paid for, permanent fix to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. Wilson is also a cosponsor of the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act with Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D (TX-26) to eliminate the SGR. "It is high time for Congress to stop playing politics with the reimbursement rate and finally offer physicians and patients a permanent fix and peace of mind," said Congressman Joe Wilson.
03.25.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 4944 the Siding With America's Patients (SWAP) Act. The SWAP Act will repeal the government health care takeover and replace it with the text from H.R. 3400 - a patient-centered and affordable solution that expands access and continues to cover pre-existing conditions. "Simply repealing this government takeover of health care isn't sufficient - we must SWAP it with a more affordable solution that is centered around the patient and not the government. The SWAP Act will continue to cover pre-existing conditions but will repeal the tax hikes and unaffordable mandates on individuals and small business owners. "For the better part of a year, the American people have made it clear that they want something more affordable and attractive than this government takeover style. We are going to show tax hikes, higher premiums, and massive deficits the door. And then we are going to extend a warm welcome to portability, shopping across state lines, and protection of current health plans. "I want to thank Congressman Tom Price, M.D. for his health care plan that offers access to coverage for all Americans; gives patients the power to control their coverage; improves the health care delivery structure; and reins in out-of-control costs," said Congressman Joe Wilson. The Siding With America's Patients (SWAP) Act replaces the government takeover of health care with text from H.R. 3400 - a patient centered solution. The bill text can be found here and also a short summary and a detailed summary of the patient-centered bill.
03.23.2010	March 23, 2010 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee's hearing on the legislative priorities for military associations: "Thank you, Chairwoman Davis, for holding this hearing. It's important for us to hear the views of our witnesses on their priorities for legislative action. "I am especially grateful to you for honoring my request that we hear testimony from the Gold Star Wives on the imperative that Congress repeal the widow's tax-the mandated reduction of Survivor Benefits annuities when receiving Dependency and Indemnity Compensation. Both witnesses on the second panel have suffered the loss of a spouse on active duty and can talk directly and about the need for repeal. "As you know, the husband of one of those witnesses, Margaret McCloud, was Lieutenant Colonel Trane McCloud, who was killed in action in Iraq. Trane was an active duty Marine and served as a Defense Legislative Fellow in 2003 in the office of the Second District of South Carolina. I learned firsthand of what a dedicated Marine Trane was as a devoted husband and father. "I am also glad we will be hearing from an expert from the Congressional Budget Office regarding mandatory spending and pay-as-you go rules that affect how offsets to mandatory spending can be achieved. We need to understand those rules and why it is nearly impossible for Chairman Skelton and others on this committee to pass legislation with mandatory spending costs. "What our CBO witness is probably not going to be able to address or explain, however, is what many of our witnesses today and most of America sees. And that is when House leadership deems it a priority, the rules can, and are, set aside. Thus, for example, the Congress and the President have committed to spending trillions of dollars to rescue the economy, without any seeming concern for mandatory spending offsets. ‘Cash for Clunkers' was funded a billion dollars in a matter of hours, with additional funding provided immediately when it ran out of money. "It is my view, as I know it is yours, that we and our constituents must make it clear to House leadership that addressing the numerous concurrent receipt and mandatory spending issue issues are a priority and worthy of their support. "Again, I thank you for holding this hearing and look forward to the testimony of our witnesses." #####
03.21.2010	Following the health care takeover vote this evening, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released this message directly to all of the concerned citizens who fought so hard over the last year to protect the doctor-patient relationship and prevent a federal government takeover of health care: "I want to thank all of the hardworking Americans who fought tirelessly over the last year to shine light on the job-killing provisions in this government takeover of health care. The provisions in the bill and the process used to secure passage were both designed to enhance the power of politicians; citizens should be proud of efforts to limit such power. Today's outcome is sad for America, but don't think for one second you didn't make a difference. "Last summer, liberals had every intention of ramming through an irresponsible bill without so much as giving the American people and the press time to properly comprehend it. Your efforts in spreading the word about the frightening provisions stockpiled throughout the bill forced Speaker Pelosi and the White House to take a long pause and reevaluate their game plan. "After making your voices heard loud and clear at town hall meetings and rallies across the country, you moved on to the ballot boxes in Virginia, New Jersey and Massachusetts. Washington liberals may have chosen to ignore your message today, but you can remind them again soon that you are a force which is awakened to support change in the future. "Please know that while your efforts to protect the doctor-patient relationship and prevent a federal government takeover of health care were not appreciated by a majority of lawmakers, they are certainly appreciated by a majority of freedom-loving Americans across the country," said Congressman Joe Wilson. The VFW urged a ‘no' vote on H.R. 4872. The government health care takeover does not fully protect the healthcare programs provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the military's Tricare system. The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops urged ‘no' vote on the health care takeover unless flaws were fixed -- they were not. The letter from U.S. bishops to lawmakers can be found here. Congressman Wilson delivered several floor remarks on the government takeover of health care. Two of the floor speeches can be found here and here.
03.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee's hearing on legislative priorities in support of military families: "Thank you, Mrs. Davis, for holding this hearing. And thank you to each member of today's panel. "Meeting the needs of military families continues to be challenging and complex. We are a nation at war, fighting on two fronts and the strains of those wars translate directly and immediately to the families of the members of the Armed Forces. When you disrupt the military family unit by deploying a key member of that family, a host of issues arise that stress all aspects of family life: physical and mental health, personal finances, and interpersonal relationships, just to name a few. "This subcommittee, the Department of Defense, and the military services have taken a number of initiatives to address the needs of military families. Yet, there remains evidence much more needs to be done and the system of support that has been created may not be adequately meeting the needs of military families. "Last week we heard testimony on the results of two studies that looked at the effects on military children who have deployed parents. Thankfully these studies seem to suggest our military children are more resilient than we could expect. With that said, it is also clear the well-being of our children is affected by the stability of their family and the emotional strength of the non-deployed parent among other factors. "While I appreciate that the Department of Defense and the military services are committed to assisting and supporting military families, I am not convinced the right services are getting to the right family members at the right time. I am also concerned the provision of family support services are not always completely coordinated and integrated. So I am interested in hearing from our witnesses as to how effective the coordination and integration effort is. "I am also interested in hearing where we must provide additional effort-in the form of policy and resources-to improve what is already being done." #####
03.15.2010	March 15, 2010 (Columbia, SC) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today held a press conference at the Midlands' office to discuss the latest updates on the government health care takeover. Wilson held a similar press conference on Saturday in Beaufort with many concerned citizens in attendance. The Fix at The Washington Post reports this morning that "In six days time, President Obama's health care bill will almost certainly have either passed or failed." Wilson used the press conferences to encourage citizens to continue to make their voices heard during this critical week: "Concerned citizens across the country have made it perfectly clear that they do not want a government takeover of health care. In this economic environment, it is highly irresponsible to consider a bill full of job-killing taxes and mandates; as the countdown to a vote beings, it is critical that we continue to spread that message. "The latest health care package that the Washington liberal majority will try to pass this week mandates private individuals to purchase health care and causes millions of employers to cancel the health care they offer their employees. No matter how President Obama and Speaker Pelosi try to repackage it, this is a government takeover," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
03.12.2010	March 12, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced an additional health care press conference in Columbia on Monday morning. According to the Politico, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told her members this afternoon to be prepared for a health care vote as early as next week. Pelosi: House vote may be next weekBy: Patrick O'Connor March 12, 2010 01:38 PM EST Who: Congressman Joe Wilson and Citizens Concerned About a Government Takeover of Health Care Vote Next Week What: Health Care Press Conferences When: Saturday, March 13th @ 1:30 p.m. in the Lowcountry and Monday, March 15th @ 9:30 a.m. in the Midlands Where: Saturday @ 1:30 p.m. The Lowcountry Office: 903 Port Republic Street Beaufort, SC Monday @ 9:30 a.m. Midlands’ Office: 1700 Sunset Blvd. Ste. 1 West Columbia, SC Why: Because the White House has indicated that March 18th is their deadline for passage – if this is true, the time to make our voices heard is now. ###
03.11.2010	(Washington, D.C.) - On Saturday, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) is holding a health care press conference to discuss the government health care takeover and the process Washington liberals are using for the final push next week. Who: Congressman Joe Wilson and Citizens Concerned About a Government Takeover of Health Care What: A Health Care Press Conference When: Saturday, March 13, 2010 1:30 p.m. Where: The Lowcountry Office: 903 Port Republic Street Beaufort, SC 29902 Why: Because the White House has indicated that March 18th is their deadline for passage - if this is true, the time to make our voices heard is now. ###
03.10.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today released the following statement before the House of Representatives voted on the irresponsible Afghanistan Retreat Resolution: “I encourage my colleagues today to vote against this dangerous Afghanistan Retreat Resolution. I regret that Congress would even waste one second on this while our troops are fighting for victory to protect America’s families by defeating terrorists overseas. “We must support President Obama’s counterinsurgency strategy and trust our military leaders led by General Petraeus and General McChrystal,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. On the House floor this morning, Congressman Wilson highlighted the Newsweek article titled, “The Surge is Working.” Wilson’s Afghanistan Speech: Click here for video
03.09.2010	March 9, 2010 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee's hearing on the effects of deployments on children of military personnel: "Thank you Chairwoman Davis and thank you for holding this hearing. Today's hearing continues our commitment to military families who share the burden of the ongoing wars alongside their military service member. I believe our children are the future of this great Nation. We must take care that in our efforts to mitigate the effects of combat on our service members, we are mindful that families experience the challenges of deployment together, but each in their own way. "I am encouraged by the studies we will hear about today, which seem to suggest our military children are more resilient than we could expect. With that said, it is also clear the well-being of our children is affected by the stability of their family and the emotional strength of the non-deployed parent among other factors. "I remain concerned that although the Department of Defense and the military services have implemented numerous programs to address the mental health needs of our service members and their families, these programs remain under resourced and pose challenges to families who need help. I encouraged the Department and the Services to look closely at the results of these studies to determine where their programs may fall short in providing the necessary support to military family programs. "I also recognize this research is only the first step in understanding how the war on terror is affecting our military children. I would like to hear from our witnesses today their recommendations for future study. I am also interested to hear if they found gaps in programs available to assist military families, and if the effects of deployments on children would be mitigated if these gaps are addressed. "Finally, I would like to know how else we can help these incredible children who so often have to be strong beyond their years while their military parent is away. We owe it to this nation to ensure this generation of military children is able to transition to adulthood with the skills and emotional strength to successfully lead us into the future. "I welcome our witnesses and thank them for participating in the hearing today. I look forward to your testimony." #####
03.05.2010	March 5, 2010 Lawmakers Should Focus on Job Creation Policies – Not a Government Health Care Takeover Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the Education and Labor Committee, today released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the U.S. economy lost 36,000 jobs while the national unemployment rate remained at 9.7 percent: “When the Washington liberal majority chooses to expend their energy on a job-killing health care takeover, it is no surprise that unemployment numbers remain drearily stagnant. “Hardworking families and small business owners deserve lawmakers who can get their priorities straight and deliver tax relief and job creation incentives. I encourage Speaker Pelosi to finally consider many of the solutions Republicans have presented to jump-start America’s economy and offer the relief that American families so desperately need,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
03.03.2010	March 3, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the Education and Labor Committee, today released the following statement after the president announced his final health care plan: "The Washington liberal majority has selective hearing on health care. This is most recently highlighted today with the president's announcement of his final health care plan that ignores the will of the American people. "You would think after record-breaking town hall meetings, an unprecedented House Call on Washington, and elections in Massachusetts, Virginia, and New Jersey, that congressional leaders and the administration would wake up and tune in. Instead of working across the aisle to agree on health care elements that will make health care more affordable and accessible for all Americans, the president is determined to push a job-killing government takeover of health care. This is a blatant dismissal of the American people's preference. "Adding salt to the wound, the president has elected to consider using divisive maneuvers developed behind Washington's closed-doors to pass this partisan legislation. The bottom line is that the path is no better than the plan itself," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Click here for Wilson's speech on reconciliation
02.24.2010	February 24, 2010 With 70 GOP Bills, A Lack of Material Will Not be a Problem Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the Education and Labor Committee, issued the following statement highlighting what he would like to see during tomorrow’s health care summit: “On Monday, four days before the coined ‘bipartisan health care summit,’ the White House jumped the gun and released their health care proposal before negotiations were scheduled to take place. The only thing to applaud about this health care proposal was the administration’s move to embrace transparency and post it online. Other than that, we are left with yet another government takeover of health care that is full of job-killing tax increases and federal mandates. “The American people are facing waves of déjà vu as they have already rejected this type of government health care takeover. I hope this administration and congressional leaders will come together tomorrow and put the different proposals side-by-side to agree on a plan that makes health care more affordable and accessible for all Americans. A lack of material to work with certainly will not be a problem as Republicans have offered the Washington liberal majority 70 different health care bills. “It is time to come to a consensus on responsible health care elements that both parties agree on and then move on to focus on job creation policies,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson encourages the administration and congressional leaders to strongly consider H.R. 3400, the Empowering Patients First Act to provide access to affordable, quality health care for all Americans. More information on this bill can be found here and highlights include: Patients will be granted greater choice and portability The individual market will be expanded through pooling mechanisms, association health plans and individual member accounts The medical liability system will be reformed Insures doctor-led quality measures Covers pre-existing conditions Shines sunlight on health plans Protects employer-sponsored insurance
02.17.2010	February, 17, 2010 (Irmo, S.C) - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the one-year anniversary of the trillion-dollar “stimulus”: “One year ago, the so-called stimulus was put together behind closed doors, rushed through Congress, and then signed by President Obama with a promise to lower unemployment. However, with unemployment still at double digits in several areas across the nation, the American people certainly haven’t seen a return on their investment. This is one anniversary present that taxpayers wish they could return. “Congress needs to focus on offering job creation incentives to small business owners and tax relief for hardworking families. It’s time for the liberal majority to ditch their job-killing agenda that includes a national energy tax and government takeover of health care and instead focus on getting people back to work,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
01.27.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered the State of the Union Address: "The conditions across America leading up to this speech tonight are quite serious - unemployment is at double digits and in South Carolina, it is at an all time high at 12.6%. Hardworking families across the country are facing a difficult state of affairs. Like many of these families who tuned in tonight, I too was hoping to hear more concrete job creation plans from the President. "I was encouraged by the President's mention of a first-time homebuyers tax credit, but there are many more important proposals that we have presented to Speaker Pelosi that I hope will receive more bipartisan support - including the President's. "American families are concerned about immediate job creation in their communities and the debt that lawmakers continue to pawn off on our children and grandchildren. They want more than just rhetoric about the so-called stimulus and they want more than just a small, symbolic effort to cut spending. "Truly tackling out-of-control Washington spending will require a spending freeze based on 2008 levels. It will also require a commitment from Speaker Pelosi and Senator Reid to forgo their 85% spending spike. "On the issue of national security, I was pleased that the President reiterated the value of sending 30,000 more reinforcements to Afghanistan. I very much respect the President's decision to listen to our commanders on the ground as they aggressively pursue a multi-dimensional counter-insurgency strategy to secure Afghanistan. For the sake of our mission, American families at home, and our brave men and women in uniform, I hope the President can rally Congressional leaders behind his strategy and our troops' mission," said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
01.26.2010	January 26, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) announced that the cost of President Obama's stimulus plan has jumped another $75 billion: "American families who are trying to stay financially afloat do not have time for anymore stimulus stumbles. Instead of misnomers and rhetoric, they need tangible job creation proposals," said Congressman Joe Wilson. The Washington Times today also reports that the country faces giant budget deficits for the foreseeable future and has the biggest debt problem it has seen since just after World War II. President Barack Obama is expected to speak about spending freezes and deficit reduction at the State of the Union Address tomorrow evening. "If the President is serious about tackling out-of-control Washington spending, then I am ready to work with him. However, I believe we need to freeze spending based on 2008 levels. I also look forward to hearing more details about how the Washington liberal majority plans to explain the 85 percent spending spike in just two years." ###
01.22.2010	January 22, 2010 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the one-year anniversary of President Obama's executive order to close the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba: "The President must finally put the brakes on his efforts to close Guantanamo Bay. Each day, we continue to hear more frightening facts about terrorist recidivism; the recent decision to release two detainees to Algeria, a country with a growing presence of al-Qaeda, is particularly disconcerting. Once a detainee is relocated, there is no way to stop them from rejoining the ranks of al-Qaeda," said Congressman Joe Wilson. Of the former detainees released from Guantanamo, one in five rejoins the ranks of radical terror groups, and those are only the ones we know of. In Yemen, three top officials of al-Qaeda are former detainees from Guantanamo, and are actively training and equipping radical Islamists. This week, Congressman Joe Wilson, along with other Republican members of the House, introduced legislation that would restrict the President's ability to transfer Guantanamo detainees to countries with ungoverned spaces or active al-Qaeda terrorists or networks. "The Christmas bomber's connection to Yemen and al-Qaeda puts a spotlight on the issues surrounding closing Guantanamo. Going forward, it's crucial that the administration prevents these detainees from being transferred to countries like Yemen with ungoverned spaces and active terrorist organizations." ###
01.22.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the S.C. Employment Security Commission announced that South Carolina's jobless rate reached 12.6 percent in December: "As dismal unemployment numbers persist month after month, Speaker Pelosi continues on with her misplaced priorities," said Congressman Joe Wilson. In December, the national unemployment rate was 10 percent and South Carolina's rate hit an all-time record high at 12.6 percent - breaking the old 12.3 percent set in November. The State reports that the number of South Carolina jobs shrank by 9,900 while the number of those looking for work rose by 6,400. Meanwhile, Congressman Wilson continues to push Speaker Pelosi to consider job creation policies. "When will the liberal majority finally get the message to ditch their job-killing agenda that includes a national energy tax and government takeover of health care? When will Speaker Pelosi consider job creation incentives for small businesses and tax relief for families? People are hurting throughout South Carolina and it is high time that Congress starts talking about ways to jump start our economy each and every day." The most recent edition of Wilson's Weekly Watch published the results of a survey Congressman Wilson sent constituents asking them to rank job creation suggestions. The suggestions with the most support include: · 15% Provide a 5% across the board income tax cut · 13% Allow small business to take a tax deduction equal to 20% of their income · 12% Make the lower 15% rate on Capital Gains and Dividends permanent · 12% Make all withdrawals from IRAs Tax-and Penalty-Free · 11% Repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax on individuals · 10% Permanently repeal required distributions on retirement accounts · 9% Make unemployment benefits tax free · 6% Offer a home-buyers credit of $7,500 ###
01.22.2010	DONATE: The Clinton Bush Haiti Fund This week, a catastrophic earthquake struck the island nation of Haiti. There is major damage to Port-au-Prince, the capital, including several government buildings. Over three million people are estimated to be affected by the earthquake, and while estimates vary at least 100,000 people were killed, according to the Government of Haiti. Info on how to help and updates from the State Department are below. Call our office in Columbia for assistance as well: 803-939-0041 Latest Updates: www.state.gov/haitiquake/ https://www.southcom.mil/AppsSC/factFiles.php?id=138 Information on Family Members: To obtain information on family members in Haiti, call the Haiti Earthquake Task Force at 1-888-407-4747. For those located outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. Americans in Haiti may call the U.S. Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322 or 509-2229-8672. Americans are urged to contact the Embassy via email at ACSPaP@state.gov to request assistance. From the State Department: Contributions/Donations: The most effective way people can assist relief efforts is by making cash contributions to humanitarian organizations that are conducting relief operations. Information on organizations responding to the humanitarian situation in Haiti may be available at www.reliefweb.int, and at USAID: www.usaid.gov - Keyword: Donations. U.S. citizens who wish to contribute to the relief effort for Haiti after the earthquake, either online or by text message, can visit www.WhiteHouse.gov. The State Department helped set up a short code for those wishing to send immediate monetary assistance. To take advantage of this, people can text "HAITI" to "90999" and $10 will be given automatically to the Red Cross, charged to your cell phone bill. CIDI Hotline: 703-276-1914 https://www.cidi.org/reg_offr.htm https://www.cidi.org/guidelines/guide_ln.htm https://www.cidi.org/media/faq.htm U.S. Citizen Inquiries: The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens in Haiti are urged to contact the Embassy via email (ACSPaP@state.gov) to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency. People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 888-407-4747; Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department's Consular Affairs website. We still encourage you to reach out directly to the Department's Haiti Task Force at 1-888-407-4747; Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. Adoptions Info: U.S. citizens with pending adoption cases in Haiti are requested to contact the Department of State at AskCI@state.gov for information about their adoption case. In your inquiry, please include: full name and contact information of parents, full name(s) of child(ren), date(s) of birth of child(ren) [if known], and the name and contact information of orphanage. Find additional information about adoptions in Haiti at https://adoption.state.gov/news/Haiti.html#. Volunteer Opportunities: Additionally, persons who wish to provide assistance or expertise in Haiti are asked to contact the Center for International Disaster Information. The Center, operated under a grant from the United States Agency for International Development's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, has established a dedicated page to coordinate Haiti support at: https://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/, 703-276-1914. Haitian Citizens in the U.S. Haitian citizens in the U.S. should call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, D.C., 202-332-4090, or the Haitian Consulate in New York City, 305-859-2003.
01.21.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the hearing held by Republican members of the House Education and Labor Committee on the Obama Administration’s labor agenda: “Special interests, not American families and small business owners, have benefited most since liberals took control of both the White House and Congress. Instead of focusing on job creation incentives for small businesses and tax relief for families, the liberal majority has threatened to strip workers of the right to a secret ballot and have rolled back union financial disclosure regulations. “The secret backroom negotiations and favoritism that finalize these deals have plagued Washington for too long. The lack of transparency and preferential treatment is most recently seen in the health care negotiations and union exemption from taxes on so-called Cadillac health care plans. “It’s time to straighten out these misplaced priorities and I applaud Ranking Member John Kline and for continuing the discussion about these important concerns,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. This morning, Republicans on the Education and Labor Committee examined the Obama Administration’s labor agenda, specifically its impact on the current labor market and the rights of employees and consider possible strategies to help rebuild the American economy. ###
01.20.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement on the one year anniversary of a Democrat-controlled government: “For 365 days, Democrats have controlled both the White House and Congress. During this time, the American people heard promises to keep unemployment under eight percent, promises to cut spending, and promises of transparency in the health care debate. After a year of broken promises, the American people had enough - most clearly illustrated on Tuesday in Massachusetts. “I encourage Speaker Pelosi and Senator Reid to listen to the message the American people are sending them and drop this government takeover of health care and instead take up job creation policies,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
01.18.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) honored the life of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. today at a banquet in West Columbia and with the following statement: “Today we honor a man who committed his life to ensuring equal opportunity for all Americans. Although his life was cut tragically short, Dr. King’s message of freedom, equality and opportunity still thrives today. Dr. King’s cause of justice inspired millions and today we celebrate his noble life and memory,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
01.14.2010	After hearing the news that MTU Detroit Diesel Inc. is establishing a new manufacturing facility in Aiken County, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement: “I join all Aiken residents today in welcoming MTU Detroit Diesel’s economic contribution to our community. During these tough economic times, this $45 million investment that will usher in 250 new jobs is most exciting. The SKF building in the Sage Mill Industrial Park seems to be the perfect location for this new manufacturing facility and I look forward to seeing their doors open soon,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. #
01.13.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, issued the following statement today after introducing legislation to raise basic military pay by 1.9 percent for Fiscal Year 2011: “The brave men and women in our military deserve just recognition for the extraordinary and courageous work they do to protect American families by defeating terrorists overseas,” said Congressman Wilson. At a time when our military is deployed around the world protecting our nation, as well as our allies, H.R. 4427 will ensure we keep our commitment to America’s military personnel and their families. “For the benefit of our military personnel as well as their families, this increase would help close the gap between civilian and military pay. I look forward to working this year to honor the tremendous sacrifice made by our brave soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen.” ###
01.11.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson unveiled his 2010 legislative priorities during three press conferences throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional district: “In 2009, we witnessed the return of big government and its big failures. Lawmakers not only put American taxpayers on the hook for the year’s historic financial downturn, they also passed a Washington takeover of health care and continued debate on a national energy tax. Meanwhile, American families and small business owners continued to wonder when job creation policies would arrive. “In this new year, it’s time for Congress to finally get our priorities straight and discuss job creation policies each and every day. History shows that a combination of low taxes, worker training, right-to-work protections and less regulatory red tape is a sound recipe to attract business. I urge Speaker Pelosi to consider these ideas and more, to get America’s economy rolling once again. “It is also crucial that we enhance America’s national security by finally securing America’s borders, reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and supporting the President’s decision to send reinforcements to Afghanistan,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. Wilson’s 2010 Agenda Long-Term Job Creation Policies: 5% Across-the-Board Income Tax Cut; Cut Capital Gains and Corporate Taxes; Retraining Workforce Assistance; Bonus Depreciation; Home Purchase Tax Credit; Make Withdrawals from IRAs Tax-and Penalty-Free; Increase Student Loan Tax Deduction; Small Business Tax Deduction Equal to 20% of Income; Increase Child Tax Credit to $5,000; and Make Unemployment Benefits Tax Free Patient-Centered Health Care Reform: Shop for Health Insurance Across State Lines; Small Business Association Health Plans; Cover Pre-Existing Conditions; and Allow Individuals to Pool Together in their Organizations to Save on Health Care Costs American Security: Support President’s Decision to Send Reinforcements to Afghanistan; Give Troops Tools they Need to Succeed in their Missions and in the Surge; Promote Military Families; Honor America’s Veterans – Offer Job Training Assistance and Provide Incentives for Investors to Hire Veterans for Small Businesses; and Finally Secure America’s Borders Energy Independence: Promote an All-of the-Above Energy Plan that Includes All Sources of Alternative and Renewable Fuels, American Natural Resources, & Conservation; American Workers Creating American Energy; and Fight a National Energy Tax ###
01.05.2010	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in support of C-SPAN’s request to keep the public informed through media coverage during future health care negotiations: “I applaud C-SPAN’s letter to congressional leaders asking that all future health care negotiations be open to the public through media coverage. I hope Speaker Pelosi gives the American people a seat at the negotiation tables by accepting C-SPAN’s generous offer to cover such discussions. “During his campaign, President Obama promised voters that health care discussions would be televised live. Congressional leaders should help the President keep this important promise and put a stop to secret backroom talks that have been a part of Washington’s way of doing business for entirely too long,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. The letter from C-SPAN can be found here ###
01.05.2010	(Columbia, S.C.) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) has announced three press conferences this Friday in the Second Congressional District to unveil his priorities for 2010: 2010 Priorities Press Conferences Thursday, January 7th 4:00 p.m. Beaufort Office of Congressman Joe Wilson - 903 Port Republic Street Friday, January 8th 9:00 a.m. West Columbia Office of Congressman Joe Wilson - 1700 Sunset Blvd., West Columbia Noon Orangeburg Henry’s Travel Plaza – 1935 Old Edisto Drive ###
01.05.2010	1.4.10 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement thanking Congressman Henry Brown (SC-01) for his service after learning that he will not seek a sixth term in Congress: “I want to thank Congressman Henry Brown for his service to our state and our country. Throughout his career, Henry Brown has fought tirelessly for South Carolina’s taxpayers and families; he will be sorely missed. “It has been a pleasure to work with Henry Brown over the years, first at the state level, and now representing the interests of South Carolinians in the United States Congress. I wish him well during this new chapter of his life,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
12.21.2009	Wilson’s Statement on Senate’s Government Health Care Takeover ‘Tis the Season for the American People to Make their Voices Heard Early this morning, the Senate voted to advance a massive government takeover of health care. Two more procedural votes will take place this week and reports indicate that the final Senate vote is set for 7:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) is urging the American people to sound the alarm and make their voices heard between now and the critical Christmas Eve vote. “A historic vote on a government takeover of health care will take place on Christmas Eve. ‘Tis the season for the American people to make their voices heard. Hardworking taxpayers, America’s seniors, and small business owners have 4 days to help sound the alarm about this government monstrosity. “Even though communities across the country face double-digit unemployment figures this holiday season, Congress seems adamant on delivering another lump of coal with this job-killing health care bill. Brokered in backrooms and then rammed through for a quick vote, the Senate bill includes $518 billion in new job-killing taxes that will impact small businesses and individuals. “In addition to harming small business owners and families, the government health care takeover will also leave states like South Carolina high and dry with unfunded Medicaid mandates. However states like Nebraska, where Senator Reid needed to buy off votes, will have their Medicaid tab picked up by the federal government. This is Washington politics at its worst and I urge the American people to help scrap this backroom bill,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. Information on Nebraska’s Medicaid kickback can be found here. ###
12.18.2009	South Carolina’s unemployment rate hit an all-time high at 12.3% for the month of November. Upon hearing about the state’s unemployment numbers, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the Education and Labor Committee, continued to sound the alarm about the need for Congress to consider job creation policies: “How high will unemployment numbers have to rise before Speaker Pelosi and Harry Reid finally straighten out Congress’ misplaced priorities? Congress has spent plenty of time debating health care takeovers, energy tax policies, and rampant spending increases – but no real policies to jump start America’s economy. With double digit unemployment figures across the nation, lawmakers should be debating and discussing job creation ideas each and every day. “I represent two counties in the state with the highest and the lowest unemployment rates. Lawmakers need to debate a diverse range of policies that fit the needs of both types of communities, and fast. It’s high time for Speaker Pelosi to give our communities the tools they need like tax relief for small businesses and families to get America’s economy rolling once again,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. Click here and here for job creation ideas that Congressman Wilson has encouraged Speaker Pelosi to consider. WSPA highlighted today that Allendale County has the highest unemployment rate in South Carolina at 23%. The lowest in the state is the 8.8% jobless figure for Lexington County. ###
12.09.2009	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-01), Congressman Mark Souder (IN-03), and Congressman Jeff Miller (FL-01) today demanded an audit of stimulus funds. Just this morning, reports showed that Mark Penn, Hillary Clinton’s pollster, received $6 million in stimulus money to preserve three jobs. Furthermore, the Administration still hasn’t thoroughly addressed the major discrepancies and inaccuracies of reporting on Recovery.gov. With the Government Accountability Office stating that one out of every 10 jobs created by the stimulus are also fake, it’s high time for Congress to act. The National Commission on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 will create a bipartisan commission to investigate the effects of this “stimulus” bill. Congressman Joe Wilson: “It’s time for Congress to demand answers on behalf of the hardworking taxpayers that we represent. The misnamed stimulus is one of the largest spending bills in our nation’s history and it is critical that American taxpayers receive adequate answers as to the whereabouts of stimulus funds. I can not fathom how Hillary Clinton’s pollster received $6 million to preserve just three jobs when that could sustain dozens of South Carolina’s families for life. I urge Speaker Pelosi to consider our legislation to ensure full accountability of every stimulus dollar spent.” Congressman Jack Kingston: “What do you get for $18 million? The Obama Administration’s website that creates phony congressional districts and fishy jobs numbers. It’s time to pull back the curtain and get some of that transparency and accountability promised on the campaign trail. Until this Administration can provide the American people with an accurate accounting of their record breaking spending scheme, Congress should dry out the trough.” Congressman Mark Souder: “Not only has the stimulus failed in its goal of reining in rising unemployment, the published report tracking the funds revealed imprecise statistics, nonexistent congressional districts and significantly overstated the number of jobs created. I am pleased to join Congressman Joe Wilson on this important legislation to put an end to this unaccountable stimulus spending spree. During this time of economic recession, Hoosier taxpayers deserve to know where and how their dollars are being spent.” Congressman Jeff Miller: “In my home state of Florida 52 jobs were created in the 34th Congressional District, according to the Recovery.gov website. 46 jobs were created in District 00. We all know now that these districts simply don’t exist. How can the Administration expect us to trust their dubious jobs created numbers when they can’t even manage their own website? We need an audit of this spending immediately.” H.R. 4219, the National Commission on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (text can be found here) will create a ten member panel, appointed by the President and Democrat and Republican leaders in the House and Senate, will investigate how many jobs have actually been saved or created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5); the circumstances in which those jobs have been saved or created; and, the effectiveness of measures taken to prevent the improper payment of funds. Following the investigation, the Commission will make recommendations on what changes could be made to save or create more jobs and what steps can be taken to prevent the improper allocation of taxpayer dollars. ###
12.08.2009	*** Media Advisory - Tomorrow at Noon *** WHAT: In an effort to ensure full accountability of stimulus dollars, Congressman Joe Wilson will be joined by Congressman Jack Kingston, and Congressman Mark Souder to call for an audit of stimulus funds and introduce the National Commission on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. This legislation will create a bipartisan commission to investigate the effects of this “stimulus” bill. WHO: Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-01), and Congressman Mark Souder (IN-03) WHEN: Tomorrow, December 9th at NOON WHERE: HC-9 WHY: Recent media reports have indicated that there are major discrepancies and inaccuracies of reporting on Recovery.gov. In fact, the Government Accountability Office says that one out of every 10 jobs created by the stimulus are also fake. This is one of the largest spending bills in our nation’s history and it is critical that American taxpayers receive adequate answers as to the whereabouts of stimulus funds. ADDITIONAL INFO: The National Commission on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will create a ten member panel, appointed by the President and Democrat and Republican leaders in the House and Senate, will investigate how many jobs have actually been saved or created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5); the circumstances in which those jobs have been saved or created; and, the effectiveness of measures taken to prevent the improper payment of funds. Following the investigation, the Commission will make recommendations on what changes could be made to save or create more jobs and what steps can be taken to prevent the improper allocation of taxpayer dollars. ###
12.07.2009	December 7, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after learning about the passing of Major General (Ret) Grady Patterson: “South Carolina today mourns the loss of a distinguished member of our community who dedicated his life to serving our state and our country. Major General Patterson’s contributions to our state as Assistant Attorney General and as South Carolina’s State Treasurer are still seen today. His selfless and brave service to our country in the Army Air Corps in WWII, the Korean War, and the Berlin Conflict, will not be forgotten. “Major General Patterson, who served in the South Carolina Air National Guard, was a devoted husband, father, and grandfather. My thoughts are prayers are with his remarkable family at this time,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
12.04.2009	December 4, 2009 As new dismal unemployment numbers were released today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the Education and Labor Committee, continued to ask the Administration and Speaker Pelosi to consider job creation policies: “The unemployment numbers released today are nothing short of dismal. The American people were told that the misnamed stimulus would keep unemployment under eight percent. Yet today, we continue to see double digit figures. In fact, close to 3 million of those jobs were lost just since the misnamed stimulus bill was shoved through Congress less than one year ago. “As I travel throughout South Carolina to visit with business owners and employees, I am reminded of our remarkable workforce and strong industries that can create and keep jobs in our communities. However, Congress must act to give our communities the tools they need for an economic jolt. I urge Speaker Pelosi to consider Republican proposals that offer tax relief to small businesses and families to get America’s economy rolling once again. “In the immediate future, it is also critical that we know where the money from the misnamed stimulus is actually being spent. After weeks of reports on fake jobs in fake Congressional districts, I have called for an outside, independent investigation of the stimulus funds. The American people want to know where their hard-earned money is being spent and they want to see real job creation solutions from Congress. I urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to come together and deliver on stimulus accountability and job creation policies,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
12.01.2009	December 1, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after confirmed reports of President Obama’s decision to send 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan in the next six months: “I applaud the President’s decision to send 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan. While this decision is long overdue, I’m pleased that the President has listened to our commanders on the ground as they aggressively pursue a multi-dimensional counter-insurgency strategy to secure Afghanistan. “Success in Afghanistan should be we win, they lose. I hope the President will use his speech to the American people tonight to outline the roadmap to winning. The speech I’d like to hear tonight would focus on the Administration’s commitment to listen to our commanders on the ground, properly define the role of Afghan National Security Forces, and recognize we face a determined enemy who plan to test our resolve. “For the sake of our mission, American families at home, and our brave men and women in uniform, I hope the President will rally Congressional leaders behind his strategy and our troops’ mission in Afghanistan,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson, co-chair of the Afghanistan Caucus, has been to Afghanistan nine times. He is a 31 year veteran of the Army Reserve and National Guard with four sons currently serving in the military. ###
11.30.2009	November 30, 2009 (Aiken, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today celebrated the groundbreaking for a biomass generation plant in his district. Congressman Wilson joined U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, Ameresco’s CEO George Sakellaris, and other elected officials to watch as ground was broken on the largest energy efficiency project in the federal government’s history. “Today, Aiken became home to the largest energy efficiency project in our nation’s history. The state-of-the-art renewable energy facility is a $795 million project that will create jobs in our state while reducing air emissions and energy and water consumption nationwide. “I want to thank Energy Secretary Chu and Ameresco’s CEO George Sakellaris for the implementation of a public-private partnership that will benefit both the environment and the economy,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
11.24.2009	November 24, 2009 (West Columbia, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was pleased today to celebrate the announcement of a pipe manufacturing plant in Allendale County. Congressman Wilson was in Allendale for the economic development announcement this morning. Wilson released the following statement: “This morning, I was thankful to welcome Four Star Industries LLC to Allendale County for the development of a pipe manufacturing plant. Four Star Industries’ economic commitment to our community is greatly appreciated, and we look forward to welcoming their future employees to our neighborhoods. “The $2.75 million investment that will create 50 news jobs is appreciated as Allendale County’s jobless rate was the highest in the state last month. “I was also pleased to learn that the wood manufacturer, Truss Company Inc., is spending $1.25 million to open a facility in Salters that will also create 50 jobs,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
11.19.2009	November 19, 2009 After a week of reports on blatant inconsistencies in stimulus spending, and a hearing in the House Committee on Oversight and Government, this Administration still has not provided adequate answers as to the whereabouts of stimulus funds. In response to this Administration’s insufficient communication on stimulus spending, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) demands an examination of all stimulus dollars appropriated. “American taxpayers deserve to know where their hard-earned dollars are being spent,” Congressman Wilson said. “After several days of reports of stimulus inconsistencies, the Administration still hasn’t explained where the money is really being spent. Their silence on this important issue is deafening.” The Recovery Act includes a provision that allows for the establishment of a Recovery Independent Advisory Panel (RIAP). This panel consists of five presidentially appointed members to advise the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board on how it could prevent fraud, waste, and abuse relating to covered funds. The President has yet to appoint this panel despite widespread stimulus inaccuracies. “I call on the President to appoint this panel immediately,” said Congressman Wilson. “The Recovery Act is one of the largest spending bills in our nation’s history and it’s critical that we work together to maintain our goals of transparency and accountability.” If this panel is not appointed by December 1, 2009, Congressman Wilson will call for an outside, independent examination of spending and reporting inaccuracies of every stimulus dollar appropriated. Congressman Wilson’s letter to President Barack Obama is attached. ###
11.17.2009	Nov. 17th $6 Million Used to Create 6 Jobs in South Carolina’s 16th Imaginary Congressional District After learning that the U.S. Government’s own website that was designed to report potential waste, fraud, and abuse of so-called stimulus funds was its very own example of fraud and abuse, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement: “The government website charged with reporting waste, fraud, and abuse is its very own worst offender. “I know we have been asking this Administration to show us the jobs, but this isn’t what we had in mind. According to Recovery.gov, $3 million couldn’t even produce a single job in South Carolina’s 43rd imaginary Congressional District. “While I’m confident that the Administration will correct the errors on the website in a timely manner, I sincerely hope they also listen to Republican ideas to jump start America’s economy by creating real jobs for hardworking American families,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. A screenshot of Recovery.gov is attached and the website can be found here. ###
11.17.2009	Nov. 17, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after learning details about last night’s deadly train accident in Hardeeville, South Carolina. Reports indicate that an Amtrak passenger train hit a vehicle that was trying to cross the tracks, killing all four occupants in the car. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of those lost in the tragic Hardeeville train accident. The Hardeeville community will miss the victims whose lives were lost entirely too soon. “I appreciate the timely and professional response provided by Hardeeville Fire Chief Dan Morgan and Police Chief Richard Nagy,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
11.13.2009	For Immediate Release November 13, 2009 (Beaufort, SC) – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced their decision to bring Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-confessed mastermind of the September 11th terrorist attacks, to New York City for a trial in civilian court: “This Administration’s decision to bring the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks to New York City, just blocks from his area of devastation and mass murder, is reprehensible. Awarding this fanatic a trial in civilian court where he could get off on a technicality undermines the legitimacy of the military commissions system. “This decision concerns me greatly as I fear the Administration is reverting to a dangerous pre-9/11 mentality. The mass murder that occurred on that September morning was an act of war and should be prosecuted as such – in a war tribunal. Bringing justice to the victims and their families should not be delayed,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. Congressman Joe Wilson joined Reps. Henry Brown and Gresham Barrett to introduce H.R. 565 to prohibit federal funds from being used to transfer any individual detained by the United States at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the Naval Consolidated Brig, Charleston, South Carolina. Congressman Wilson also supports H.R. 2294, the “Keep Terrorists Out of America Act”, introduced by Republican Leader John Boehner, expresses the sense of Congress that individuals currently detained at the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, should not be transferred or released into the United States.
11.10.2009	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement as America honors its heroes this Veteran’s Day: “Tomorrow, America will have parades and ceremonies to honor our heroes who have worn the uniform and selflessly served this nation both at home and abroad. While the community gatherings take place once a year, these brave men and women are always on our hearts and in our prayers. "I am extremely thankful to represent so many veterans, men and women currently serving, and their families in South Carolina. I join all South Carolinians to give them my utmost gratitude for standing in defense of our nation and our cherished way of life. “The Fort Hood community is also in our prayers this week as they seek to cope with the loss of friends and loved ones,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
11.06.2009	November 6, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the U.S. economy lost 190,000 jobs in October, raising the unemployment rate to 10.2%: “Speaker Pelosi told the American people that the so-called stimulus bill would immediately create jobs and keep unemployment under eight percent. Yet today we see that unemployment has now topped 10 percent with 2.8 million jobs lost since the misnamed stimulus was signed into law. “Despite these staggering numbers, Speaker Pelosi continues to push a job-killing health care takeover. Clearly, Congress has a case of misplaced priorities. “In these tough economic times, lawmakers should be working across the aisle on bipartisan solutions to give our economy the economic jolt it needs. I encourage my colleagues to come together to offer tax relief to small businesses and families and offer incentive-based relief for job creators,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
11.05.2009	For Immediate Release November 5, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was thrilled that Scotsman Ice Systems invested $9 million in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. Wilson released the following statement: “I am thrilled that Scotsman Ice Systems has announced their plans for a $9 million expansion in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. In September, I had the pleasure of touring their Fairfax facility during my annual bus tour, and was extremely impressed with their top-quality product and professional employees. I join all South Carolinians to thank them for their continued economic investment in our great state,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.
11.05.2009	Media Advisory November 5, 2009 On Friday, November 6th, Representatives Joe Wilson, Nathan Deal, Dean Heller, Sam Johnson, and Marsha Blackburn will join the President of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), Dan Stein, to discuss the weak verification measures in Pelosi’s health care takeover bill. According to analysis from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) the number of illegal immigrants covered under Speaker Pelosi’s health care takeover (H.R. 3962) has increased by 2.5 million from their original bill, H.R. 3200. Representatives Wilson, Deal, Heller, Blackburn and Johnson are presenting several amendments to the Rules Committee that will prevent American taxpayers from being forced to finance benefits for illegal immigrants. The amendments presented to the Rules Committee will enhance the weak enforcement mechanisms currently in the bill. FAIR, a national, nonprofit, public-interest organization for immigration reform has led the effort in calling for stronger verification measures. Who: Reps. Joe Wilson, Nathan Deal, Dean Heller, Marsha Blackburn, and Sam Johnson, FAIR President Dan Stein, and NumbersUSA. What: Press conference to announce amendments to Pelosi’s health care takeover bill to strengthen enforcement mechanisms. When: 12:00 p.m. Friday, Nov. 6th at House Triangle (located in the grassy triangle on the House side of the Capitol's East Front) ###
11.03.2009	On October 28, 2009, Boeing announced that they had chosen their North Charleston, South Carolina facility as the site for a second 787 Dreamliner final assembly line. This is tremendous news not just for the people of Charleston but for all the families of South Carolina. As we have seen with the success of Michelin across the state including Lexington recruited from France by Governor Jim Edwards and BMW at Greer secured by the late Governor Carroll Campbell bringing new jobs, Boeing’s decision will have a broader impact on our state’s economy. As noted in the October 29, 2009 edition of The State, “S.C. officials expect a network of companies will spring up across the state to support Boeing's operations, just as businesses sprang up around BMW's Upstate plant, opened in the 1990s.” This decision by Boeing is a testament to the strong workforce in South Carolina. I am grateful for the hard work and dedication of so many members of our communities who continue to fight to bring more jobs to South Carolina. In particular, South Carolina Secretary of Commerce Joe Taylor has shown excellent leadership. I’ve been grateful to work with Secretary Taylor and other leaders as we keep our commitment to those we serve to promote South Carolina as a leader for industry and innovation in the positive environment of a Right to Work state.
11.03.2009	This morning, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) is honored to join Republican Leader Boehner and other Congressional leaders to present German Chancellor Angela Merkel to a Joint Session of Congress. Congressman Wilson will walk with the escort committee for Merkel’s address to a Joint Session of Congress. “I’m honored to be chosen by Republican Leader Boehner and other Congressional leaders to escort German Chancellor Angela Merkel to the Joint Session of Congress. This honor is particularly special to me because I admire Chancellor Merkel’s capable and strong leadership for the German people and the world community. “Chancellor Merkel grew up under the communism of East Germany and now she assumes the post of chancellor of the unified Germany. I’m confident she will continue to inspire and lead towards greater prosperity with conservative principles. “I also appreciate the investment Germany has made in South Carolina with BMW’s economic contribution,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. ###
11.03.2009	MEDIA ADVISORY CONTACT: Pepper Pennington (Wilson) 202-225-2452 November 3, 2009 On Wednesday, November 4th, Congressman Joe Wilson will join Representatives Fleming, Herger, Gingrey and Scalise to announce their amendment to Pelosi’s health care takeover bill that will automatically enroll all Members of Congress and all Senators in the public option. Who: Reps. Joe Wilson, John Fleming, Wally Herger, Phil Gingrey, and Steve Scalise What: Press conference to announce amendment to Pelosi’s health care takeover bill to automatically enroll all Members of Congress in the public option When: 9:00 a.m. Wednesday, Nov. 4th at House Triangle (located in the grassy triangle on the House side of the Capitol's East Front) ###
10.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 29, 2009 Tomorrow, Friday, October 30th, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will hold two press conferences in the Second Congressional District to talk about the latest developments in the health care debate in Washington.Who: Congressman Joe WilsonWhat: Press ConferenceWhere: South Carolina Oncology Associates 166 Stoneridge Drive Columbia, SC 29210When: Friday, October 30th at 12:00PM Who: Congressman Joe WilsonWhat: Press ConferenceWhere: The Rhett Gallery 901 Bay Street Beaufort, South Carolina 29902When: Friday, October 30th at 4:00PM###
10.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 29, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after Speaker Nancy Pelosi unveiled the latest version of the House Democrats’ big government takeover of the health care system.“The Pelosi takeover bill is unfortunately more of the same from this majority who has set their sights on growing the size, scope, power, intrusion, and cost of the Federal government. Among its many troubling proposals, this bill attacks senior citizens by squeezing Medicare by nearly half a trillion dollars. Not surprisingly, having devised the plan behind closed doors, the bill all but ignores the major concerns the American people have about this costly big government intrusion into our health care system. At nearly 2,000 pages, this will only provide to create a maze of new mandates and federal regulations that will cost jobs while raising taxes on small businesses and American families already struggling in a tough economy. At the same time we celebrate the new jobs being created by Boeing in South Carolina, the Pelosi takeover will destroy jobs.“We need targeted health insurance reform, and I am grateful that Republicans continue to offer positive solutions that focus on expanding affordability and accessibility of quality health insurance while protecting the doctor-patient relationship. In particular, the Republican Study Committee led by Congressman Tom Price (GA-06) has introduced H.R. 3400, the Empowering Patients First Act, which provides for small businesses to pool together to get the type of lower cost, competitive rates offered to larger corporations and unions. It ensures coverage for those with pre-existing conditions and the opportunity for individuals to shop for health insurance across state lines with more of their own money.“Republicans believe in health insurance reform but one that promotes transparency, wellness, and individual ownership and portability. The latest bill introduced by the Democrat majority promotes Washington’s power over the interests of families, senior citizens, and small businesses.”###
10.28.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 28, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after Boeing announced that they have chosen their Charleston, South Carolina facility as the site for a second 787 Dreamliner final assembly line. “This announcement is tremendous news for the people of South Carolina. Our state has a tradition of attracting quality jobs and industry including BMW and Michelin, and I am grateful that Boeing has chosen to expand its operations. As a subcommittee ranking member on the House Armed Services Committee, I know firsthand of the professionalism of Boeing. This decision is a testament to the strong workforce in South Carolina and the proactive leadership of South Carolinians – including Secretary of Commerce Joe Taylor. We are all committed to working to keep and bring more jobs to South Carolina. I look forward to continuing that work on behalf of those we have the honor to represent.”###
10.21.2009	IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 21, 2009Small Businesses Watch As New Taxes and Mandates Head Their Way Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning highlighting how the House Democrat out-of-touch agenda has created uncertainty for small businesses stifling job creation and economic growth. Congressman Wilson recognized a commonsense Republican health insurance reform bill, H.R. 3400 – Empowering Patients First Act – introduced by Congressman Tom Price (R-GA) and championed by the conservative Republican Study Committee.“Mr. Speaker, Democrat policies in Washington are creating uncertainty across America. This uncertainty is chilling job creation as small businesses have to wait and see when the next tax increase or government mandate is going to arrive. Whether it is more government intrusion into the financial sector, a national energy tax, devaluation of the dollar, or a big government health care takeover, small businesses see a Democrat agenda that is out-of-touch with their needs.“Further promoting this uncertainty is the Democrats’ refusal to provide the transparency they promised. Long gone are the plans to draft a health care bill in public. Now, those decisions are made behind closed doors. The Democrat leadership is even refusing to hold a vote on a proposal to have all legislation available online for 72 hours.“We need to say yes on H.R. 3400 health insurance reform. Republicans have a bill for access and affordability. And I urge my Democrat colleagues to consider H.R 3400. In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.”###
10.20.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 20, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced today that he will be holding a town hall in Aiken on Saturday, October 24, 2009.Saturday, October 24th at 9:00 AMOakwood-Windsor Elementary School3773 Charleston Highway, Aiken, SC 29801###
10.14.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 14, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today following a hearing in the House Armed Services Committee on our strategy in Afghanistan. “In March of this year, President Obama said in clear terms that success in Afghanistan was about more than just stability in the region. He correctly stated that the ‘safety of people around the world is at stake.’ I commended the President at the time for having made this determination and applauded his choice of General Stanley McChrystal as a professional and capable leader for our forces in Afghanistan. “We should aggressively pursue a multi-dimensional, counter-insurgency strategy. We must remain vigilant and in pursuit of terrorist organizations operating in both Afghanistan and Pakistan; properly define the role of and train the Afghan National Security Forces – both police and army units; and help the people of Afghanistan continue to establish a stable, transparent government. We have seen the success of this type of strategy in Iraq. “President Obama’s speech in March made it clear that we need a comprehensive approach to securing stability in the region and that were the Taliban to return to power it would mean not only a devastating degradation of human rights for the people of Afghanistan but an open door for terrorists safe havens. To avoid this outcome in Afghanistan, General McChrystal has requested more troops and resources. For the sake of our mission and the lives of our servicemembers, Congress and the President should act and act soon by listening to our commanders in the field.” ###
10.13.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 13, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced today three town halls that will be held in the Second Congressional District on Saturday, October 17, 2009. Saturday, October 17th at 9:00 AM Barnwell High School 474 Jackson Street, Barnwell, SC 29812 Saturday, October 17th at 12:00 PM North High School 692 Cromer Avenue, North, SC 29112 Saturday, October 17th at 4:00 PM Wade Hampton High School 115 Airport Road, Varnville, SC 29944 ###
10.08.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 8, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after joining with a large number of conservatives to vote against the political games being played by Democrats. Congressman Wilson voted against the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (NDAA) after Democrats chose to attach unrelated “hate crimes” legislation to the bill. “As a veteran, as the father of four sons serving in our military, and as a Member of Congress, my number one priority is to ensure those brave Americans we send into harm’s way have the troop strength and resources to complete their mission. “This legislation contains many valuable provisions that will go a long way toward honoring our commitment to our military. The final bill includes a 3.4 percent across-the-board pay raise for our troops – which is above the President’s request. I introduced this provision and pushed for its inclusion throughout the process, and I am very pleased it remained in the conference report. “However, in the end, it is appalling that Democrats have chosen to make this legislation not about our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines but about their liberal agenda. Our obligation to the men and women of our military should not be abused in this manner, and that is why I voted to oppose those who are trying to hijack a good cause to push their partisan politics. It sends a terrible message to our military that this provision has been shoved into this bill when it does nothing for our military families or our national defense. Democrats should stop using our troops and their families as a vehicle for their political games.” ###
10.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 6, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.Res. 167, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of Campus Fire Safety Month. During his remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the resolution, Congressman Wilson recognized the tragic loss of students from the University of South Carolina and Clemson University at Ocean Isle Beach, North Carolina in October of 2007. “A child’s safety is every parent’s number one concern. We want the best for our children, and we want to know they are safe. Campus Fire Safety Month is an opportunity to raise awareness and encourage our colleges and universities to educate their students on the danger posed by fires both on and off campus. No family should have to face the tragedy of losing a daughter or a son to a fire, so we have an obligation to be proactive in this effort to provide families, students, teachers, and school administrators with every tool available to keep our children safe.” ###
10.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 6, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after receiving The Military Coalition 2009 Award of Merit. Congressman Wilson was recognized for his initiatives to increase military pay, improve health care benefits for servicemembers, expand retirement benefits for National Guard and Reserve members who have served in the Global War on Terrorism, and end compensation inequities for disabled veterans and military families. “I am humbled by this recognition and grateful for the opportunity to work on behalf of our military and their families. As a veteran and the father of four sons serving in our Armed Forces, I know firsthand the extraordinary work and dedication of our servicemembers and their families. While we owe our military a debt of gratitude we can never fully repay, we should always strive to honor their service by fighting on their behalf here at home.” MSG Michael Cline (USA-Ret), The Military Coalition President and Executive Director of the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, said, “As Ranking Minority Member of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee, Rep. Wilson has played an influential role on almost every aspect of military personnel and compensation improvements this year. We’re especially grateful for his leadership in working to improve this year’s military pay raise and seeking fairer retirement and health care coverage for the Guard and Reserve community.” The Military Coalition is comprised of 34 military and veterans organizations representing over six million members worldwide. ###
10.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 2, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after the Department of Labor reported an unemployment rate of 9.8% for the month of September with 263,000 more Americans losing their jobs. “More of our fellow citizens are out of work, and yet all they see in Washington is more wasteful spending and more big government policies that will cost jobs and raise taxes on struggling American families. Instead of continuing to follow this failed strategy, we should be pursuing immediate and proven action to help families and small businesses get back to work. It begins with putting more money back into the hands of those who create jobs and build our economy. We need to shift the focus in Washington away from growing the government bureaucracy and towards empowering individuals.” ###
09.30.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 30, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today as Senate Democrats introduced their version of the national energy tax that House Democrats rammed through the House of Representatives earlier this year. “American families and small businesses cannot afford and do not deserve another tax passed down from Washington to fund its big government agenda. When House Democrats voted earlier this year to pass a cap and tax scheme, it was already quite clear that this tax would raise gas prices, food prices, and the cost of doing business for millions of Americans. Now, in the wake of an Obama Administration report uncovered earlier this month that states this scheme would cost American households $1,761 a year, Democrats are refusing to put this bad idea to rest.” “There are positive solutions to our energy needs that do not rely on taxing American families and destroying jobs. I am grateful to be a part of a bipartisan group of members who have introduced H.R. 2227, the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act of 2009. Our plan is a roadmap to a stronger energy future which promotes clean, affordable energy and the commonsense exploration and development of American energy resources. Despite the diverse views and constituencies of our group, we have been able to find common ground in pursuit of a common cause: clean, affordable, American energy.” Key Points about the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act: An all-of-the-above plan that does not raise taxes on American citizens Opens up offshore resources of 20 miles or further from the coastline Gives 30% of royalties and revenues to producing states Includes loan guarantees for the production of commercial nuclear power plants Provides for the disposition and recycling/reprocessing of spent fuel from nuclear power plants, and the financing of long term safe storage of spent fuel Extends tax credits to help promote smarter energy use and incentives for businesses and individuals to develop cleaner energy products For a complete summary of the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act, please click here. ###
09.30.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 30, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today following a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the status of U.S. efforts in Iraq. General Ray Odierno, Commanding General of Multi-National Force – Iraq, testified before the committee. “I am, as are the many families of South Carolina, grateful for the incredible work done by our troops in Iraq under the professional leadership of General Odierno. I have had the privilege of meeting and speaking with General Odierno, and I appreciate him appearing before our committee and the American people to share his appraisal of U.S. efforts in Iraq. “The challenges America and its allies face in Iraq are many, but I am grateful that we have seen such success both with the ‘surge’ and with continued security and diplomatic steps to achieve stability. The political as well as security environment in Iraq has improved and our nation is on a course to drawdown forces based on a mutual agreement with Iraq. I hope we will continue to evaluate that course of action to ensure it reinforces the hard-fought success secured by the sacrifice of so many brave American servicemembers. “As always, it is important to build a strategy through close consultation with our commanders and troops on the ground to ensure it reflects the needs of our forces and their mission. This is as true in Afghanistan as it is in Iraq which is why I commended President Obama in March when he announced a new strategy for Afghanistan built on consultation with our military commanders. Iraq and Afghanistan are unique fronts in the Global War on Terrorism, and we must continue to listen to those who are fighting to defeat the terrorists overseas. I am grateful to have had that opportunity today and look forward to working with General Odierno and our military leadership to give them the resources and troops necessary to protect American families.” ###
09.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 9, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement this evening regarding a comment he made during President Obama’s speech to Congress. Following the President’s speech, Congressman Wilson called the White House to personally apologize to President Obama. He spoke with Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel and expressed his apologies. “This evening I let my emotions get the best of me when listening to the President’s remarks regarding the coverage of illegal immigrants in the health care bill. While I disagree with the President’s statement, my comments were inappropriate and regrettable. I extend sincere apologies to the President for this lack of civility.” ###
09.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 9, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today regarding President Obama’s address to Congress on health care reform. “Tonight’s address to Congress will mark the 28th time President Obama has given a national speech on health care. It should be quite clear that at this point it is not the sales pitch but the product itself that many Americans find troubling. “Republicans agree that we should pass targeted reforms to our health insurance industry. That was also the message shared by many Americans this August when they stood up at town hall meetings to have their voices heard. They want, as do we, to fix what is failing in our system; to give Americans assistance and more of their own dollars to purchase insurance; address runaway malpractice expenses that add to the cost of care; establish pooling mechanisms for individuals and businesses to secure more affordable policies. There are any number of different strategies we can pursue in a bipartisan manner to expand affordability and accessibility to health care without replacing our current health care system with a big government system.” “The President’s speech – no matter how eloquent – will not erase the fact that the legislation being offered by his Democrat allies costs $1 trillion dollars, adds billions to our nation’s debt, and imposes taxes on individuals and small businesses which will destroy millions of jobs. That is why Americans deserve a new effort and a new bill not a new speech.” ###
09.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 9, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced today that his office will be open on Saturday, September 12, 2009 to host constituents traveling to Washington for this weekend’s 9/12 March on Washington. Congressman Wilson’s office located at 212 Cannon House Office Building will be open from 12PM to 4PM. Those planning to visit the office should enter the House Office Building complex at the entrance to the Longworth House Office Building located on South Capitol Street, SE. “As we have seen throughout the year and in particular during August, Americans are energized and ready to stand up to have their voices heard across this nation and in Washington. I am grateful to welcome South Carolinians to Washington, and always encourage them to visit the office of the Second Congressional District.” ###
08.27.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 27, 2009 **MEDIA ADVISORY** On Monday, August 31, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) will embark on his annual 5-day district tour. Congressman Wilson will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his efforts in Congress. NOTE: Not all stops are media accessible. Any media wishing to attend should contact Ryan Murphy with Congressman Wilson’s office at (202) 689-4825. Monday, August 31st 7:30 AM Breakfast at Sunset Restaurant – 1213 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia 8:45 AM Tour of Lexington Medical Center – 2720 Sunset Blvd., West Columbia 10:15 AM Tour of Diamond Pet Foods – 100 Woodtrail Drive, Gaston 11:30 AM Visit to Sugarbaker’s – 290 S. Monmouth Ave., Swansea 12:45 PM Lunch at Shealy’s BBQ – 340 E. Columbia Ave., Batesburg 2:00 PM Tour of Moore Orthopaedic Clinic – 104 Saluda Pointe Drive, Lexington 3:15 PM Tour of American Benefit Services – 1061 Bickley Rd., Irmo 4:30 PM Visit to Chapin Chamber of Commerce – 302 Columbia Ave, Chapin Tuesday, September 1st 7:30 AM Breakfast at Lizard’s Thicket – 3147 Forest Dr., Forest Acres 8:30 AM Tour of Verizon Wireless Call Center – Richland Mall, Forest Acres 10:00 AM Tour of William Jennings Bryan Dorn VA Medical Center – 6439 Garners Ferry Road, Columbia 10:45 AM Meeting with Affordable Housing Institute – 1030 Atlas Rd., Columbia 11:45 AM Tour of Crayton Middle School – 5000 Clemson Ave. Columbia 1:00 PM Speaking at First Tuesday – 1125 Rosewood Drive, Columbia 2:30 PM Tour of Spirax Sarco – 1150 Northpoint Blvd., Blythewood 4:00 PM Meeting with Central Carolina Alliance - 1201 Main St. #100, Columbia Wednesday, September 2nd 8:30 AM Tour of SCE&G Cope Plant – 405 Teamwork Rd., Cope 11:30 AM Tour of Scotsman Ice – 199 Scotsman Dr., Fairfax 12:30 PM Visit to Allendale Courthouse – 465 James Brandt Blvd., Allendale 2:00 PM Tour of Dixie Narco – 3330 Dixie Narco Blvd., Williston 3:15 PM Tour of AGY World Headquarters – 2556 Wagener Rd., Aiken 4:15 PM Tour of URS Corporation – 106 Newberry Street SW, Aiken Thursday, September 3rd 7:30 AM Breakfast at Blackstone’s – 205 Scott St., Beaufort 8:45 AM Visit to Beaufort Chamber of Commerce – 1106 Carteret St., Beaufort 9:45 AM Visit to Beaufort County Complex - 100 Ribaut Rd., Beaufort 11:30 AM Tour of Marine Corps Air Station – Beaufort 1:00 PM Tour of Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island – Beaufort 3:00 PM Tour of The Waddell Center – 211 Sawmill Creek Rd., Bluffton 4:00 PM Tour of Traditions – 3171 Independence Blvd., Hardeeville 5:00 PM Visit to Hilton Head Chamber of Commerce – 1 Chamber Dr., Hilton Head Island Friday, September 4th 8:00 AM Breakfast at Jasper Porch – 153 James L. Taylor Rd., Ridgeland 9:45 AM Tour of The Webb Center – 1282 Webb Avenue, Garnett 12:00 PM Visit to Southeastern Frozen Foods - 220 Frontage Rd., Gaston 2:00 PM Tour of University of South Carolina – USC Campus, Columbia 6:00 PM Brookland Cayce Football Game – Brookland Cayce High School, Cayce ###
08.25.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after the White House released an updated economic and budgetary forecast projecting an additional $2 trillion in deficits over the next decade. “Today’s announcement is one more disappointing indicator that the out-of-control spending habits of this Administration and their Democrat allies in Congress will continue to put our government on an unsustainable path towards fiscal ruin. The consequences to this generation and future generations will be the potential for hyper-inflation, higher interest rates, and future tax increases all of which would undermine an economic recovery and future prosperity. Despite a broad consensus that this course of borrowing and spending is unsustainable, we find a majority in Washington that is still pushing a tax and spend agenda – including their latest plan to enact a $1 trillion government takeover of our health care system that will add billions more to the government’s debt.” ###
08.20.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 20, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced the following change today to his August town hall schedule. Due to an expected high turnout at town halls, Congressman Wilson will be moving his Beaufort town hall on Saturday morning to the Beaufort High School gymnasium. * Please note this is a change from the previous scheduled location. * Saturday, August 22nd at 10:00 AM Beaufort High School, Gymnasium 84 Sea Island Parkway, Beaufort, SC 29907 ###
08.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 18, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced the following change today to his August town hall schedule. Due to a record turnout during Monday’s town hall in Columbia, Congressman Wilson will be moving his Lexington town hall on Thursday night to the Lexington High School’s Cafetorium. * Please note this is a change from the previous scheduled location. * Thursday, August 20th at 6:00 PM Lexington High School (Cafetorium) 2463 Augusta Highway, Lexington, SC 29072 ###
08.11.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 11, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced today four town halls that will be held throughout the Second Congressional District. Monday, August 17th at 6:00 PM W.J. Keenan High School, Gymnasium 361 Pisgah Church Road, Columbia, SC 29203 Thursday, August 20th at 6:00 PM Lexington High School (Cafetorium) 2463 Augusta Highway, Lexington, SC 29072 Saturday, August 22nd at 10:00 AM USC Beaufort North Campus, Performing Arts Center Auditorium 801 Carteret Street, Beaufort, SC 29902 Saturday, August 22nd at 2:30 PMHilton Head High School, Visual and Performing Arts Center 70 Wilborn Road, Hilton Head Island, SC 29926 ###
07.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 29, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing regarding psychological stress in the military. “Thank you Chairwoman Davis for holding this hearing. Today’s hearing continues our commitment to work with the Department of Defense to find ways to address the psychological stress that our service members are struggling to overcome and to continue to improve mental health services for our military personnel and their families. “I am encouraged by the direction that the Department and the military services are taking to recognize and alleviate psychological stress experienced by our troops, particularly our combat veterans. “From my own service in the National Guard and reserves, I understand that the responsibility for finding the right answers to this problem does not lie solely with the military medical departments. This is also a leadership challenge and I commend the military services for making the mental health of our military and their families a leadership priority. “With that said, I remain concerned that the programs that each of the Services are implementing to address psychological stress are disjointed and neither well coordinated nor communicated. I am anxious to hear from the military senior leaders on our two panels about what steps they have taken to develop a comprehensive, multi-disciplined approach to addressing psychological stress. “I thank our witnesses for their service and for participating in the hearing today.” ###
07.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 29, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning highlighting his amendment that was adopted during the Education and Labor Committee markup of the Democrat health care bill which would provide that Members of Congress who vote in favor of a government-run health care plan enroll in that plan themselves. *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech, Click Here* “Mr. Speaker, as Democrats push for a government takeover of health care, I hope they will abide by a very simple standard: if a government-run health plan is good enough for the American people, it is good enough for Congress. “During consideration of the over 1,000 page bill in the Education and Labor Committee, I successfully got an amendment passed that would provide that Congress members who vote in favor of government-run health care to enroll in that plan themselves. The American people should monitor that this provision is kept in the bill. “I want to commend Congressman John Fleming, a physician, for originally promoting this concept of fairness. I urge my Democrat colleagues to adopt this standard if they insist on dragging a big government bureaucracy between patients and doctors. The American people deserve better to protect jobs. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” In addition to the enrollment amendment, Congressman Wilson also successfully had the committee adopt an amendment to shield the men and women of our armed forces from onerous mandates and possible coverage deterioration as a result of the Democrat’s complex new health care governing scheme. Specifically, the Wilson Amendment exempted TRICARE from the “pay-or-play” employer mandate and other benefit mandates that would place an additional burden on this program that serves military personnel and their families. ###
07.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 24, 2009 * To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech, Click Here * Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Mr. Speaker, the President says, incorrectly, that if you like your health care coverage you can keep it under his plan. This has been refuted by many sources including the White House which has admitted that the President’s rhetoric should not be taken ‘literally.’ Unfortunately, with mandates and new taxes on small businesses included in the Democrat bill, the question should be: if you like your job, can you keep it? “With estimates ranging from 1.6 million to 4.7 million jobs lost under the Democrat scheme, it is clear this plan will destroy jobs and weaken our economy. You cannot make health care more affordable for Americans if you destroy jobs. “Republicans want to give the American people a leg up through tax relief and resources for small businesses to provide quality health care coverage. We have solutions that do not rely on tax hikes, mandates, and big government bureaucrats which lead to waiting lists and rationing. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” ###
07.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 22, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after voting to support a Republican plan that would ensure federal spending does not grow faster than the economy, establishes a plan to reduce the deficit, and avoids job killing tax increases. “Republicans stood up for fiscal responsibility today and presented Congress with a plan that would address both mandatory and discretionary spending and establish firm, enforceable rules to restore fiscal sanity to Washington. Our plan gives a strong set of tools to Congress, so that we can rein in the spending that threatens this generation and future generations with an insurmountable debt. Congress was given a clear choice on whether to support the Republican plan or endorse a Democrat PAYGO scheme that lacks the teeth necessary to do what its supporters claim. “Democrat’s claim that their bill is simple: when you spend a dollar you save a dollar. Of course, under their proposal, this does not apply to the 40% of annual spending that qualifies as discretionary. Republicans, on the other hand, include caps on discretionary spending in our proposal because we’ve seen a Democrat budget for next year alone that is set to increase nondefense discretionary spending by 8.9% over last year on top of the 25% spending increases included in their non-stimulus and omnibus spending bills passed earlier this year. “When confronted with the tremendous spending perpetrated on their watch and the empty rhetoric and loopholes found in their PAYGO scheme, Democrats want to look back and place blame wherever possible – as if past spending justifies their trillion dollar deficits. The American people want and deserve leadership going forward so we can, as a nation, get our fiscal house in order.” Background: The Republican proposal establishes caps on budget deficits; ensures total spending does not grow faster than our economy; and, rejects the use of tax hikes to avoid making tough budgetary decisions. The Democrat scheme does not apply to discretionary spending which accounts for 40% of our annual budget. The PAYGO promises that have been made previously by the Democrats have failed to keep deficits down. The annual budget deficit under Democrat control has ballooned from $162 billion in 2007 to an estimated $1.8 trillion by the end of this year. That’s a 1,035.8%, increase to the federal deficit since Democrats introduced their PAYGO scheme in 2007. ###
07.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 22, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing regarding family support programs within the military services: “Thank you, Mrs. Davis, for holding this hearing. And thank you to each member of today’s panel. I am particularly pleased to see the senior enlisted personnel from the services. “Meeting the needs of military families has never been more challenging or complex. We are a nation at war, fighting on two fronts and the strains of those wars translate directly and immediately to the families of the members of the Armed Forces. When you disrupt the military family unit by deploying a key member of that family a host of issues arise that stress all aspects of family life: economic, physical and mental health, personal finances, interpersonal relationships and many more areas. “This subcommittee, the Department of Defense and the military services have taken any number of initiatives to address the needs of military families. During my 31 years of service with the Army Reserve and National Guard, I conducted pre-mobilization legal counseling and will preparation statewide. I appreciate what efforts have been made for military families, which I know firsthand. “Yet, despite all that has been accomplished, there remains evidence that the family support system may not be completely effective. “While I know that the Department of Defense and the military services are committed to assisting and supporting military families, I am not convinced that the provision of those services is fully coordinated and integrated. So I am interested in hearing from our witnesses as to how effective the coordination and integration effort is. “I am also interested in hearing where we must provide additional effort—in the form of policy and resources—to improve what is already being done.” ###
07.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 22, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today highlighting how the House Democrat leadership’s partisan approach to health care reform has produced a poor product and ignored quality reforms proposed by Republican members. “Mr. Speaker, Republicans agree we need to reform the health care system. Yet the Democrat leadership hides behind closed doors. They’ve chosen to go it alone, and as a result, they have a scheme of proposals that adds to the deficit, spends over $1 trillion, enacts a government takeover of health care, and has garnered bipartisan opposition. “Democrats should sit down at the table with Republicans and work on a bipartisan plan of reform. Republicans have commonsense solutions that will help Americans afford insurance regardless of pre-existing conditions. We want to provide small businesses the resources and freedom to offer and keep insurance for their employees. House Republicans and the American people do not believe we need to let big government takeover our health care, ration the taxpayer subsidized care, and raise taxes on small businesses that will – according to the National Federation of Independent Businesses – cost 1.6 million jobs in addition to the 2.6 million jobs lost since January. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” ###
07.17.2009	Committee Republicans Stood Up for American Families and Small Businesses Against Government Takeover of Health Care FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 17, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after Democrats on the House Education and Labor Committee approved their legislation to enact a government takeover of the health care system. “Republicans continue to fight to preserve choice and quality in our health care system and to protect small businesses from burdensome job killing mandates and tax hikes. We must enact reforms because the status quo is clearly unacceptable. Republicans are presenting a commonsense set of solutions that will help American families afford quality and portable health care regardless of pre-existing conditions, empower not tax small businesses to offer health insurance for their employees, and preserve choice and innovation in our health care system. “The partisan manner in which this bill has been brought to Congress coupled with the arbitrary deadlines Democrats have imposed to rush it through the legislative process does not respect the tremendous importance of health care reform. Republicans are committed to working in a bipartisan manner to develop solutions that will make health care affordable, accessible, and of the highest quality. I hope that, in the face of what has become a bipartisan call for a better set of health care reforms, the Democrat leadership will reconsider ramming through their bill which drives up the debt, destroys jobs, and undermines quality care.” ###
07.17.2009	Wilson Offers Amendment that Calls On Members of Congress & Administration Officials Who Support Government-Run Health Care to Adopt the System for Themselves FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 17, 2009 Republicans are presenting a united front against the Democrats’ plan to allow a government takeover of our nation’s health care system, fighting to ensure Americans who like their current coverage can keep it. In an effort to ensure Democrats do not impose a flawed health care system on the American people that they themselves would not be willing to accept, Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) proposed an amendment that would press senior Administration officials as well as Members of Congress who vote to create a government-run health care plan to set aside their current benefits and enroll in that newly created system. Congressman Wilson’s amendment was adopted by the Committee. “Despite the cost to taxpayers and the bureaucratic maze that will be part of a government-controlled health care plan, if Members of Congress and the Administration are still confident in the quality and flexibility of care they claim will come with this public plan then they should lead the way by enrolling in it. This amendment gives our colleagues an opportunity to tell the American people if they believe a government takeover of their health care is the best they can do,” said Wilson. The Wilson amendment inserts a Sense of Congress into the Democrats’ health care legislation that urges senior Administration officials and those Members of Congress who vote for a public plan to forgo their existing health care coverage under the Federal Employee Health Benefit program in favor of this new government-run system. The Education and Labor Committee is one of three panels simultaneously voting on the Democrats’ radical health care overhaul this week as their party’s leaders try to meet an arbitrary deadline that would rush the legislation through the full U.S. House of Representatives before the end of this month. ###
07.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 16, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) delivered the following statement this evening during debate over his amendment to protect TRICARE for our military, veterans, and their families from the Democrat government takeover of our health care system. “The purpose of this amendment is to shield the men and women of our armed forces from onerous mandates and possible coverage deterioration as a result of this bill’s complex new health care governing scheme. Specifically, I believe we must exempt TRICARE from the “pay or play” employer mandate and other benefit mandates that would place an additional burden on this program that serves military personnel and their families. “As a 31-year Army Guard and Reserve veteran, I know the importance of TRICARE. I know it is important for the military personnel and families at the bases I represent at Fort Jackson, Parris Island, the Marine Corps Air Station at Beaufort, and Beaufort Naval Hospital. I am grateful to have four sons now serving in the military, and I know that their families appreciate the availability of TRICARE. “Currently, TRICARE provides world class health care to 9.4 million beneficiaries who currently serve or have served this nation. The number of individuals who choose to enroll in TRICARE continues to rise because TRICARE is a low cost, comprehensive health plan that is portable and available in some form world-wide. TRICARE has been steadily improving since it was implemented in 1996, promoted by my predecessor the late Armed Services Committee Chairman Floyd Spence. In fact, in 2008 TRICARE was rated the best health care insurer in the nation according to the Wilson Health Information survey of customer satisfaction. TRICARE also received stellar marks on the 2007 annual federal government report from the 2007American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). “I believe TRICARE is one part of our health care system that’s working. The President and Congressional Democrats have said repeatedly that if you like what you have, you can keep it. I believe that our military personnel and their families do like what they have, and that’s why this amendment is needed to ensure that they can keep it. “Unfortunately, this legislation’s broad definition of “employment-based health plan” appears to include TRICARE, which means its complex new system of mandates and penalties would apply to the Department of Defense. “This may have been inadvertent on the part of the majority. After all, changes that impact TRICARE are always debated in a bipartisan way in the House Armed Services Committee. It is an honor for me to serve with Chairwoman Susan Davis as the Ranking Member on the Military Personnel Subcommittee. It would be unprecedented for us to make a change of this magnitude without consideration of the consequences for the DOD and our military personnel. “In order to correct what may have been an unintentional error, my amendment simply clarifies that TRICARE is not subject to H.R. 3200’s new mandate and penalty scheme or any other elements of the legislation. It’s about allowing our brave soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines to keep what they have. “If anyone claims that the bill is not intended to cover TRICARE, it is all the more critical that they vote for this simple clarifying amendment to make sure that the bill is absolutely clear on this point.” ###
07.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 15, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following opening statement today as the House Committee on Education and Labor began consideration of H.R. 3200, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009. “Thank you Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Kline for holding today’s markup. “Let me begin by saying that health care reform is a bipartisan cause. It would be hard to find any individual on either side of the aisle that would say the status quo of our health care system is acceptable or desirable. We all share an urgency and commitment to reforming our health care system. Where we differ is in how we as a nation should go about enacting reforms that will make health care affordable, accessible, and of the highest quality available. “The bill we have before us in this committee is one strategy – albeit a strategy that will give tremendous power and authority to Washington when it comes to personal health care decisions. It is a strategy that will saddle families and small businesses with costly mandates and new taxes. It is a strategy that will lead to a rationing of health care services that will inherently diminish quality and accessibility when hobbled by big government. “Specifically, I’m concerned with the parts of this legislation that put an undue and costly burden on small businesses. Small businesses create the majority of jobs in this country, and they will be vital to our economic recovery. We need to help our small businesses afford coverage for their employees. This legislation takes a punitive approach by imposing taxes and mandates on small businesses – an approach that sends the wrong message to our entrepreneurs that government will impose its will on how you run your business. I know firsthand of the threat this bill poses to small business jobs. I’ve heard from individuals in my district that understand the potential of this legislation to kill jobs. “There is a picture that is painted by this legislation, but it is not one of an agile, patient-focused health care system where individuals, small businesses, and physicians are empowered to seek and provide quality health care. Thankfully, this bill is one strategy – not the only strategy. “Indeed, my Republican colleagues and I have been hard at work developing policies that will accomplish the common goal of health care reform but do so with the understanding that we should not destroy what is positive about the American health care system – namely innovation and quality – in order to impose a government-run system that will stifle both innovation and quality. “In addition to the tax relief for individuals to afford a health care plan regardless of pre-existing conditions, our plan would strengthen employer-provided health care by encouraging those who are eligible but not enrolled in their employer’s plan to get enrolled. Rather than raising their taxes, we offer tax credits to small businesses to encourage coverage for their employees as well as strengthen opportunities for businesses to pool their efforts to secure affordable insurance options. “There are numerous concerns I and many Americans have with a government-run health care system. The American people deserve a healthy and robust debate about which strategy we choose in the pursuit of our common goal of affordable health care.” For a summary of the House Republican health care plan, please click here. ###
07.14.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 14, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after House Democrats introduced their health care plan – the latest attempt by Democrats to grow the size, power, and cost of government on the backs of American taxpayers and small businesses. This comes on the heel of the Democrat cap and tax scheme which will raise electricity prices, gas prices, food prices, and make American industry less competitive in the global economy. “The partisan health care plan introduced today is not a reform but a takeover of our health care system. It advances the cause of bigger government and Washington power over the health of individuals and at a cost to quality and taxpayers that is unacceptable. Rather than sit down with Republicans to craft a plan that can advance our common cause of health care reform, Democrats have chosen yet again to go it alone resulting in a plan of mandates and tax hikes on American families and small businesses that will destroy jobs while rationing care. “Despite the one-sided efforts of the Democrat majority, Republicans are ready to defend the individual right to choice and the doctor-patient relationship in our health care system. We seek to provide American families and small businesses the resources to make affordable health insurance accessible, portable, and flexible to individual needs; and we have a plan to do this without taxing more American families and the small businesses that create jobs.” ###
07.07.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 7, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech, Click Here* “Mr. Speaker, Vice President Joe Biden recently admitted that the Obama Administration misread the economy when drafting their nearly trillion dollar spending bill. Meanwhile, the American people have long known and House Republicans have long argued that this administration actually misread history when putting together their massive borrowing bonanza. “Had Democrats followed the example of former Presidents Kennedy and Reagan, they would have implemented the type of broad tax relief for American families and small businesses that has a proven record of stimulating the economy and creating jobs. Today’s continued decline in jobs is a symptom of the slow, bureaucratic driven spending this Administration put in place. “Our economy will recover but small businesses will be far better vehicles of job creation than big government expansion. By saddling future generations with such massive debt while threatening Social Security and encouraging the potential for hyperinflation and higher interest rates, this Administration has misread history, misplaced its priorities, and misspent American tax dollars. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” ###
07.01.2009	Congressman Joe Wilson will be live on NewsRadio 560 WVOC with Keven Cohen to discuss the Democrats' cap and trade scheme and its impact on families in South Carolina. WHAT: Wilson on NewsRadio 560 WVOC with Keven Cohen TIME: TODAY, July 1st at 3 p.m.
06.30.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 30, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today as United States combat troops handed over security of major Iraqi cities to Iraqi personnel. Today’s action is in accordance with the Status of Forces Agreement signed by the United States and Iraq that set US combat forces to withdrawal from Iraqi cities by June 30, 2009. “Our military men and women continue to serve with courage and professionalism, and I am grateful for their commitment to protecting American families by defeating terrorists overseas. Handing over greater responsibility for Iraqi security to Iraqi military and police forces is an important part of a greater effort to maintain stability and encourage political and civil progress. This is a milestone that would not have been possible were it not for the tremendous sacrifice of our servicemembers and a strategy based on the conditions on the ground and in consultation with our military leaders.” ###
06.26.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 26, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after voting against a national energy tax and in support of American families and small businesses. “The legislation that House Democrats felt compelled to shove through today was built upon an oppressive policy of higher taxes for American families. It was 1,200 pages – a good portion of which most members of Congress have not had the opportunity to review – of punitive policies that will increase electric bills for American families, cause rising gas and food prices, and kill jobs. In the state of South Carolina, it is estimated that our economy, under this bill, could lose $366 million in 2012 alone with personal income losses within the state of over $479 million. That means fewer jobs and fewer dollars in the pockets of the families I represent. “House Republicans have consistently offered smarter solutions. We’ve offered a comprehensive, all-of-the-above strategy that would safely utilize American natural resources, build the next generation of cleaner energy technology, and affirm America’s commitment to conservation. Our strategy from day one has been built on a belief in the American spirit of ingenuity and a bipartisan approach to addressing our environmental and energy needs. We will continue to fight to protect American families and small businesses from higher taxes and more burdensome big government. We must promote job creation and a new era of cleaner, affordable energy technology, but we cannot make families bear the burden of a national energy tax or put American businesses at a competitive disadvantage in this global economy.” ###
06.25.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate on H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. “Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2647. This bill contains significant policy and funding initiatives that address important issues for our military personnel and quality of life. “I was honored to serve with Military Personnel Subcommittee Chairwoman Susan Davis, who I have seen firsthand promote our servicemembers, their families, and veterans. “Mr. Chairman, I would also like to thank Chairman Ike Skelton and the professional staff for their efforts; particularly John Chapla and Jeanette James. “To that end, the bill contains many important initiatives, including a military pay raise of 3.4 percent. The raise is 0.5 percent above the President's budget request. “Mindful of the challenge the Army is having with large numbers of nondeployable personnel, we have recommended continued growth in Army end strength. The bill would allow the Army to increase by 30,000 in 2011 or 2012. I am particularly pleased that we changed the matching fund requirement to a 75-25 percent ratio between the Department of Defense and the States for the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program. “In addition, the bill protects child custody arrangements for deployed parents, championed by Congressman Mike Turner of Ohio. With all these good things in the bill, I must again raise my disappointment that we were unable to even debate my amendment in full committee dealing with concurrent receipt; the elimination of the survivor benefit plan; the dependency and indemnity compensation offset, more sadly known as the widows tax; the extension of health care to early retiring Reserve component members; and the use of the misnamed Reserve fund in the budget resolution. “Had the Democratic leadership seen eliminating these injustices as a priority, they could have allocated the small percentages necessary in the $15 trillion they provided for government spending in 2010 to 2014. This is less than one-sixth of 1 percent of mandatory spending for this period. “In addition, I was disappointed by the fact that for the second year in a row, we were unable to include my amendment to extend early retirement credit for service for National Guardsmen and Reservists back to September 11, 2001, retrospectively. The prospective retirement credits since January 28, 2008, is a start; but as a 31-year veteran of the Army National Guard, I know more needs to be done. As a Nation, we owe more than our gratitude for the brave men and women in uniform and their families, past and present, for the sacrifices they make to protect our freedom. “With that, Mr. Chair, H.R. 2647 is a strong defense authorization bill. I urge my colleagues to vote ‘yes’ in support of H.R. 2647. “Congratulations to our dedicated colleague Congressman John McHugh of New York for his selection to serve as Secretary of the Army.” ###
06.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 24, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning during debate on H.R. 2990, the Disabled Military Retiree Relief Act. *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech, Click Here* “Madame Speaker, I rise to support H.R. 2990, the Disabled Military Retiree Relief Act of 2009. “This bill has a number of good provisions dealing with military and civilian personnel which I appreciate as a 31-year Army National Guard veteran representing Parris Island, the Marine Corps Air Station at Beaufort, the Beaufort Naval Hospital, and Fort Jackson. I want to focus on one section of the bill that would provide concurrent receipt of Department of Defense disability pay and Veterans Administration disability pay to a small number of people discharged from the services with less than 20 years’ service because of injuries sustained while in service. “This section, which is but a ghost of the proposal submitted by President Obama, is a small, but important step in expanding the population eligible for full concurrent receipt. I am glad that some progress is being made. “What troubles and disappoints me most, however, is that this bill, which will be attached to the National Defense Authorization Act for 2010, could have done so much more had the Democratic leadership of the House made elimination of concurrent receipt and elimination of the widow’s tax a priority from the beginning of this Congress. “Instead, we were unable to even debate my amendment at the full committee markup of the Defense Authorization dealing with concurrent receipt, the elimination of the Survivor Benefit Plan and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation offset as a widow’s tax, the extension of health care to early retiring reserve component members, and the use of the misnamed Reserve Fund in the Budget Resolution. “I would note that since the introduction of my amendment, the Democratic leadership has found a way to fund H.R. 2990, using resources and dollars outside the House Armed Services Committee jurisdiction to provide for just nine months – a very limited concurrent receipt for disabled military retirees. “While that is a step forward to eliminating some of the injustice inflicted on disabled retirees, it does nothing to cure the injustice still being suffered by most persons losing their rightly earned benefits because of the remaining concurrent receipt prohibitions. “Had the House leadership seen eliminating these injustices as a priority, they could have allocated the small percentage – less than one percent – necessary in the $15 trillion they provided for government spending in 2010 to 2014. Or, they could have used the Reserve Fund authority as proposed in my amendment. “Instead we must settle for a small pittance for a small group of retirees. “I hope that since the authority for this limited concurrent receipt is for only nine months, that the Democratic leadership makes resolving all the concurrent receipt and SBP-DIC offset injustices a real, not a symbolic priority, next year. “As a nation, we owe more than our gratitude to the brave men and women in uniform and their families, past and present, for the sacrifices they make to protect our freedoms. I know firsthand of the courage of our troops. My late father-in-law Julian Dusenbury, a dedicated Marine, was awarded the Navy Cross for leading the capture of the Japanese headquarters of Shuri Castle on Okinawa. He was shot by a sniper resulting in his being in a wheelchair for the rest of his life. He was grateful to have served America.” ###
06.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 18, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today in the face of continued efforts by Democrats in Congress to force through a government takeover of our nation’s health care system. *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech, Click Here* “Mr. Speaker, Democrats tell the American people that only government can save America’s health care system. I’m not sure what gives them assurances that big government is uniquely qualified to raise the level of health care in this nation or any nation for that matter. “Nevertheless, Republicans are not giving up on the American people’s right and ability to decide for themselves what level of quality they desire. We believe in a commonsense set of health care reforms that ensures accessibility, protects the doctor-patient relationship, and promotes healthy lifestyles. “The American people do not need big government. They need more freedom and opportunity to make the choices that will promote their health and well-being. Our set of reforms will expand that freedom to Americans who have not had affordable health care while preserving the quality of health care millions of Americans currently enjoy. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” ###
06.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 17, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement this morning after the House Armed Services Committee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. “The National Defense Authorization Act is the culmination of a bipartisan effort in the committee to address the issues that directly affect our military, our veterans, and their families. I am particularly grateful for the inclusion of a 3.4% pay raise for our military – an initiative I had fought for early on in this process. Additionally, there is a renewed focus on the needs of our Reserve and National Guard members who have contributed so much in the Global War on Terrorism as they have seen their role transform from a strategic reserve to an operational force. “Despite support for the underlining bill, it is disappointing that the committee failed to adopt my amendment which would have used funding set aside in this year’s budget to pay for several programs that would have ended the ‘widow’s tax’, provided for concurrent receipt of retirement pay and VA disability benefits, and extended TRICARE to Guard and Reserve members who are already receiving early retirement. There should also have been a more robust debate on providing early retirement credit for Guard and Reserve members who have been mobilized in support of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and for other contingency operations since September 11th, 2001. All of these issues are of vital importance to our servicemembers and particularly their families who share in the sacrifices made by our military. “There also remain legitimate concerns which include the cuts to our missile defense program found in this bill. At a time when we see renewed provocation and missile tests coming from regimes in North Korea and Iran, rolling back missile defense funding is shortsighted." ###
06.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 16, 2009 During debate on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 today, Democratic members of the House Armed Services Committee voted largely along party lines to table a Republican amendment to authorize key benefits for America’s military personnel and their families, military retirees, and veterans. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), the Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, offered an amendment that would eliminate the “Widow’s Tax”, provide for concurrent receipt of retirement pay and VA disability benefits, and extended TRICARE to Guard and Reserve members who are already receiving early retirement. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC): “This amendment is part of a broader effort to clarify and correct gaps in the benefits afforded our servicemembers and their families. Each of these initiatives in the amendment has broad bipartisan support, and would have been adequately funded through a reserve fund already established in this year’s budget resolution. I encourage my colleagues to take a second look at these commonsense proposals and work together to provide our veterans and their families the resources they need and deserve.” Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA): “America’s military personnel serve on the frontlines for our nation without asking for much in return. We had an opportunity today to fulfill some of the promises we made to them and their families in exchange for their sacrifices. Considering that Congress has spent billions on economic stimulus measures, we had hoped that we could find the money necessary to finally realize these promises.” Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA): "By not moving forward with this effort, we are missing out on a golden opportunity to finally fund concurrent receipt for disabled veterans, eliminate the Widow's Tax and improve healthcare coverage for our reservists. I am disappointed that those in power have decided that now is not the time to fulfill our obligation to our service personnel.” The amendment offered by Rep. Wilson would force the Budget Committee Chairman to utilize the “reserve funds” that were inserted into the Budget Resolution by the House Democratic leadership to eliminate the “Widow’s Tax”, provide for concurrent receipt of retirement pay and VA disability benefits, and extended TRICARE to Guard and Reserve members who are already receiving early retirement. Click here for a copy of the letter sent by the Military Officers Association of America in support of Rep. Wilson’s efforts. ###
06.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 16, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after Democrats hijacked legislation meant to fund our troops in harm’s way by loading the bill up with billions in unrelated spending – including a $5 billion down payment on a $108 billion loan to the International Monetary Fund and a $1 billion line item to incentivize Americans to buy new cars. “It is a rather sad statement that the majority could not see fit to fund our brave military personnel without including a global bailout paid for by American taxpayers. The level of funding for our troops that was originally approved by the House of Representatives and which I wholeheartedly supported had to be cut in order to make available these global bailout funds. Nevertheless, the majority felt inclined to trade troop funding for bailout funding. “It is also important to note that in an effort to strike a deal, the majority chose to remove specific provisions that would have prohibited the release of inflammatory photos. These photos would incite violence against the very men and women this bill was originally supposed to be all about. But, again, rather than build upon the broad bipartisan support this bill had originally, the majority has chosen to use it as a vehicle to appease the far left of their party.” ###
06.12.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 12, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today highlighting concerns with the Democrat proposal to enact a government takeover of our nation’s health care system. *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech, Click Here* “Madame Speaker, Republicans are committed to health care reform, and we have and will continue to offer positive solutions to achieve accessible, affordable health care for all Americans. “Unfortunately, as Democrats sat behind closed doors to develop their plan, it appears they have failed to answer some troubling concerns about what seems quite likely to be an unwarranted government takeover of the health care system. “So in the spirit of honest debate, I ask my Democrat colleagues how they expect to pay for a government insurance plan without raising taxes or driving up the national debt? How will a government-run health plan not lead to the same rationing of care that we have seen in other countries? How will a government-run health plan protect the doctor-patient relationship when Washington will now be empowered to pick and choose what procedures and treatments are, in their opinion, cost-beneficial? “Before we turn congressional offices into waiting rooms, I hope my Democrat colleagues will answer these questions. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” ###
06.11.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 11, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. “Thank you, Chairwoman Davis. Madame Chairwoman, the recommendations contained in the subcommittee report to the full committee are the product of an open, bi-partisan process. It has been a pleasure to work with you in developing them. “You have already provided the major highlights, but I would also like to highlight some of the more important recommendations in the mark. “I want to thank you for not only including in your mark my bill, H.R. 1864, to provide for a 3.4 percent basic pay raise for the military, but also for adopting a change to the matching fund requirements between the Department of Defense and the states for the National Guard Youth Challenge Program. “I would also note the discretionary authority to increase the size of the Army by 30,000 in 2011 or 2012. Such growth would significantly improve the Army’s ability to deploy fully manned units – something that is now challenged by the large numbers of non-deployable personnel on the Army’s rolls. “Our effort to oversee the process to account for our prisoners of war and missing in action is reflected in your mark. For the first time ever, the Department of Defense (DOD) will have the statutory mandate to account for all the missing from World War II, Korea, the Cold War, the Vietnam era, the Persian Gulf War and other conflicts designated by the Secretary of Defense. Furthermore, the DOD will be tasked to significantly increase the number of identifications from the current 70 per year to 200 by 2015 and subsequently to 350 per year by 2020. “Other initiatives I will mention are: "Expanding chiropractic health care to all active duty military members; “Extending TRICARE Reserve Select to members of the Retired Reserve who are qualified for a non-regular retirement but are not yet age 60 otherwise known as “gray area retirees;” and, “Requiring a medical examination prior to the involuntarily separation of service members with post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury. “With all of the good things in this mark, I must communicate my disappointment that we were unable to adopt any provision containing mandatory spending. I know the lack of offsets forced you to take at least three provisions out of your mark. I am also very disappointed that the Budget Committee failed to provide the mandatory headroom for President Obama’s proposal that would have allowed military personnel retired with disabilities, the so-called Chapter 61 retirees, to receive both their full military disability retired pay and VA disability pay. The Budget Committee’s failure to favorably respond to both of the President’s requests, as well as that of the Committee, sends the wrong message to our disabled military retirees. “Despite my reservations and concerns, this is an excellent mark and I intend to support it.” ###
06.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 10, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today in opposition to the wasteful spending and misguided government expansion included in H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act. “It is clear from the sheer size and scope of this legislation that it fails to adequately set priorities and budget prudently. A 12% increase in funding over FY2009 coupled with the creation of 20 new government initiatives is not a wise course of action when our government will already be running enormous deficits next year saddling future generations with massive debt. Additionally, a 32% increase in US contributions to the United Nations is a remarkably misguided use of taxpayer dollars when we have secured no substantial reforms from that organization. The House of Representatives could have and should have considered an alternative bill that would have capped spending at a responsible level while maintaining a robust commitment to our diplomatic priorities.” ###
06.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 10, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today as House Republicans unveiled the American Energy Act which includes a commitment to investing in clean nuclear energy. The bill establishes a national goal to bring 100 nuclear reactors online in the next 20 years. “Nuclear power is a proven, emissions-free energy source that must be a pillar of our renewed commitment to clean energy. In South Carolina alone, nuclear power accounts for over 50 percent of electricity generation. We have the technology to not only build new nuclear plants but to also provide for the recycling and safe storage of spent fuel. It would be a shame and a waste of such scientific achievement to ignore the benefits of nuclear energy when it would mean new jobs and reliable electricity generation for millions of American families.” ###
06.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 9, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after the Obama Administration announced they would be encouraging their Democrat colleagues in Congress to follow Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) budgeting rules. President Obama made this announcement a day after his administration decided to ramp up the massive deficit spending from their so-called “stimulus” package during the summer. Earlier in the year, the White House held a “fiscal responsibility summit.” Unfortunately, this summit occurred after the President signed into law his massive $787 billion spending package which has saddled future generations with even greater debt while failing to address mounting job losses. “The American people would be far better off if President Obama affirmed his commitment to fiscal responsibility before borrowing and spending billions in taxpayer dollars. While I appreciate the President’s pledges to restore fiscal sanity while in front of the television cameras, his actions and that of his Democrat allies in Congress tell a different tale. “Americans are fed up with this ‘do as I say not as I do’ brand of leadership in Washington. Fiscal responsibility means you rein in spending while making tough decisions. It does not mean you hold press conferences and then explode the public debt while raising taxes on American families to pay for a government that has grown far too big and far too costly.” ###
06.08.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 8, 2009 Today, in response to news reports that recipients of TARP funds may be able to pay those funds back, Congressmen Joe Wilson (SC-02), Kevin McCarthy (CA-22), and other members of Congress sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Geithner urging those repaid TARP funds go directly towards paying down the national debt, and for Treasury to forgo the use of TARP funds as a revolving fund for more spending. Congressmen Wilson and McCarthy introduced H.R. 2063 and H.R. 2119, respectively, earlier in April to ensure that repaid Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds pay off the taxpayer first and go directly towards paying down our national debt. If enacted, both bills would also ensure that each time a financial institution makes a repayment of assistance, the amount of purchase authority provided under TARP is reduced by a corresponding amount. Congressman Wilson issued the following statement: “The American people are rightfully fed up with a government that borrows too much and spends too much of their hard earned taxpayer dollars. A massive debt threatens our current economy and mortgages the future of our children and grandchildren. We must continue to find places to cut spending and rein in the size, scope, power, and cost of government. Using the returned TARP funds to pay down the public debt would be an important step towards that goal. This money should not be left to the imagination of Washington bureaucrats or Congress to spend on pet projects or more bailouts.” Congressman McCarthy issued the following statement: “From AIG bonuses to record deficits, hardworking American middle-class taxpayers were promised fiscal accountability with TARP, but just got more of the same. Congress should do better, and can help promote accountability by ensuring repaid TARP funds actually repay the ones footing the bill – the taxpayer. As opposed to using repaid TARP funds to take out a larger credit line for Washington spending, Congress can provide some relief to the American taxpayer who is on the hook for the record bailout borrowing.” ### Related:Letter to Secretary Geithner Wilson: H.R. 2063 text McCarthy: H.R. 2119 text U.S. Will Let Some Banks Repay Aid (Washington Post, June 8, 2009)
06.05.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 5, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after House Democrats left town early in order to avoid bringing a critical troop funding bill to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote. Democrats have insisted on including a $108 billion loan to the International Monetary Fund in the War Supplemental and refused to bring a clean bill to the floor. Faced with a lack of support from House Republicans and some Democrats, the majority leadership chose to adjourn early. “Our troops and the national security they provide should be a priority not a vehicle to push through billions in unrelated taxpayer dollars for a global bailout. It is absurd that the House of Representatives was unable to consider this vital troop funding bill this week when it includes much needed support and resources for our men and women in harm’s way. The bill had strong bipartisan support before some chose to tack on billions in unrelated spending. Democrats should stop standing in the way of funding for our military and work with Republicans to bring this bill to the Floor and get it passed.” ###
05.23.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 23, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day that will be observed on May 25th. “Our military and their families represent the finest this nation has to offer. Their commitment to defending liberty has earned them our gratitude, our thoughts, and our prayers. This Memorial Day, we are reminded of the brave members of our Armed Forces who have lost their lives in defense of America. We cherish their memory, and we express our deepest appreciation for their sacrifice and for that of their families who have given so much to the cause of freedom.” ###
05.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 21, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following prepared remarks today for the subcommittee’s hearing to receive an overview of the Administration’s budget request for military personnel in Fiscal Year 2010. “Thank you, Chairwoman Davis. In many respects, the military personnel systems today reflect a degree of success that would have been questionable three to five years ago. In large part, that success is due to the efforts of the witnesses who will testify today. “I want to particularly single out Lieutenant General Michael D. Rochelle, the Army G-1, and Lieutenant General Ronald S. Coleman, the Marine Corps’ Deputy Commandant for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. This likely will be their last appearance before this subcommittee. Each will complete more than 30 years of exceptional service before retiring, and both men are directly responsible for successfully directing the personnel programs of their respective services through an extraordinarily difficult period. I personally want to thank you for your service to this nation and wish you both well in your future endeavors. “With regard to the Fiscal Year 2010 military personnel budget request I have three areas of concern. “The first is the $800 million reduction in the services’ recruiting and retention budgets. While I know that the downturn in the economy has made recruiting and retention somewhat easier, the experience of this subcommittee is that reductions in recruiting and retention funding inevitably prove to be too deep. So I am interested in hearing the personal assessment of each of the service personnel chiefs as to where ‘risk’ exists in the proposed cuts to recruiting and retention resources. “My second concern focuses on the numbers of non-deployable personnel in the Army, Army National Guard and Army Reserve. Clearly, the fact that there are at least 27,000 non-deployable personnel in the active Army and at least another 21,000 non-deployables in the Army Guard and Army Reserve must have a range of effects in those components. I would like to hear more about those impacts and how the Army believes they might be mitigated. “The third area of concern relates to recent testimony by the service chiefs, especially those of the Marine Corps and Army, that dwell time will not significantly increase in the foreseeable future. I would like to understand why, with increased end strength, there will not be a significant change in the dwell time for the active and reserve components.” ###
05.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 21, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after reintroducing H.R. 2537, the Freedom From Union Violence Act of 2009. Due to a loophole in the Anti-Racketeering Act, violence and intimidation on behalf of labor unions has been deemed lawful if it is ruled that such coercion was to further a “legitimate” union objective. “This loophole that opens the door for extortion and violence against American workers is unacceptable. It is absolutely contrary to the ideals of the American dream for individuals or businesses to be threatened or outright harmed by others who justify their actions by claiming a legitimate objective. There is no legitimacy to the use of coercive or violent actions that threaten the lives and livelihoods of American citizens.” ###
05.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 21, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after the American Conservative Union bestowed on the congressman a positive rating of 92 in their annual ratings of conservatism in Congress. “As a lifelong conservative, I am grateful for this recognition. The cause of limited and responsible government continues to be threatened by those in Washington whose unfounded faith in government has led them to expand its size, scope, and power while asking the American taxpayers to pick up the tab. I will continue to fight on behalf of American families to reform our nation’s government, to rein in the massive new borrowing and spending that is mortgaging our children’s future, and to propose better solutions to the challenges we face.” ###
05.20.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 20, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after Iran boasted of a successful test of a medium range missile capable of reaching Israel and beyond. “There is little doubt that Iran continues its pursuit of offensive missile technology as there remains deep international suspicion and concern about their nuclear program. This action is yet another indication that we cannot turn our backs on a strong missile defense program or attempt to placate an Iranian regime that has called for the destruction of Israel. A strategic missile defense program would prevent Iran and other nations like North Korea from holding the world hostage under the threat of attack.” ###
05.19.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 19, 2009 *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today underlining the dangers of a national energy tax on American families and businesses. “Mr. Speaker, it is troubling that with so many other strategies to move our country to a cleaner energy future, there are still some advocating that we impose a national energy tax. This tax will attack the budgets of American families costing an extra $3,000 each year, and it will drive businesses and the jobs they create overseas. The Administration and Democrat Congress, who claim to be opposed to the off-shoring of American jobs, are encouraging companies to leave America. “This nation does not need to impose new taxes on its citizens to achieve the common goal of a clean energy future. We have the natural resources here that can provide the revenue and the bridge to that future. We have the scientists and entrepreneurs that will create the next generation of energy resources. And, we have the citizens who understand the benefit to their lives and to their budgets of commonsense conservation. We should explore, innovate, and conserve; not tax and eliminate jobs. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” A bipartisan group of members including Congressman Wilson recently introduced H.R. 2227, the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act which would allow for the production of American oil and natural gas, invest in alternative energy sources, and promote conservation. It would not raise taxes on American families. For a summary of the legislation, please click here. ###
05.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 15, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after President Obama yesterday told a town hall audience in New Mexico that there were dangers to borrowing and spending too much. President Barack Obama, calling current deficit spending “unsustainable,” warned of skyrocketing interest rates for consumers if the U.S. continues to finance government by borrowing from other countries. “We can’t keep on just borrowing from China,” Obama said at a town-hall meeting in Rio Rancho, New Mexico, outside Albuquerque. “We have to pay interest on that debt, and that means we are mortgaging our children’s future with more and more debt.” (Obama Says U.S. Long-Term Debt Load ‘Unsustainable’, Bloomberg, 5/14/2009) “I appreciate President Obama’s acknowledgement of the dangers inherent in his fiscally irresponsible policies,” said Rep. Wilson. “Unfortunately, holding a media event to talk about it does nothing to rein in the unprecedented borrowing and spending occurring on his watch. Republicans have repeatedly called on the president to join us in pursuit of policies that will restore some fiscal sanity in Washington. I hope, moving forward, that President Obama’s actions will match his rhetoric.” In a recent op-ed published in the Beaufort Gazette, Congressman Wilson highlighted the consequences of the excessive spending by the Obama Administration and their Democrat allies in Congress. “Unchecked government borrowing and spending will lead to a decline in global confidence in our currency while also inviting the prospect of higher interest rates into the economic mess. When the cost of borrowing capital becomes prohibitive, it can diminish what if any positive effect billions in government spending had on jumpstarting growth.” (We’ll Pay Price for Spending Excesses, Beaufort Gazette, 2/23/09) ###
05.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 15, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing to receive an overview of the Defense Health Program (DHP) from the Department of Defense. “Thank you Chairwoman Davis. Today the Subcommittee meets to hear testimony on the Defense Health Program for Fiscal Year 2010. Although we routinely have an annual hearing on the DHP, I want to emphasize that there is nothing routine about the military health system and the extraordinary care it provides to our service members and their families. “The subcommittee remains committed to ensuring that the remarkable men and women who are entrusted with the lives of our troops have the resources to continue their work for future generations of our most deserving military beneficiaries. I would like to express my deep appreciation to all of the military health system leadership and personnel who are responsible for delivering the highest quality healthcare during these most challenging times. “To begin, I want to commend the Department of Defense for sending us, for the first time in four years, a fully funded budget for the Defense Health Program. I applaud Secretary Gates for hearing what Congress and our military beneficiaries have said repeatedly; increasing TRICARE fees is not the solution for containing the rising cost of military health care. “With that, I am anxious to hear from our witnesses today how the Department plans to develop a comprehensive approach to providing world class health care to our beneficiaries while at the same time controlling costs. I look forward to working with the leadership of the military health system toward that end. I would also like your commitment that all the stakeholders in military health care will be involved in the process. “I am interested in hearing from the witnesses how the DHP supports the critical mental health services needed by our service members and their families, particularly the National Guard and reserve members who rely primarily on TRICARE Standard. “I would like to hear from our military Surgeons General whether the DHP will fully support their responsibility to maintain medical readiness, provide healthcare to eligible beneficiaries, provide battlefield medicine to our brave men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan and care for those brave men and women through the long recovery process when they become injured and wounded. “With that, I would like to welcome our witnesses and thank them for participating in the hearing today. I look forward to your testimony.” ###
05.14.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 14, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after voting to support the military funding included in H.R. 2346, the Fiscal Year 2009 Supplemental Appropriations Act. “Our brave men and women in uniform deserve our utmost respect. They deserve our support, and they need these tools and resources to successfully protect American families and carryout their mission. The funding for items like the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle and equipment for our National Guard and Reserve is vital to the welfare of our servicemembers, and I am grateful for their inclusion in this legislation. “There are, however, a number of items included in this bill that should have been considered separately and not under the guise of troop funding. Though important or well meaning projects, they do not qualify as support for our military and their operations. By including them in this legislation, the majority has short-changed the scrutiny and debate over the individual merits of that additional spending.” ###
05.11.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 11, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Peter Orszag announced that the White House had revised their deficit numbers to add an additional $90 billion in deficits for Fiscal Year 2009 and 2010. The new estimates project a $1.841 trillion and $1.258 trillion deficit for 2009 and 2010 respectively. “While this administration may try to blame this mounting debt on technical revisions or difficult economic times, it’s quite clear that these massive deficits are being created on their watch and through their big government policies that borrow too much, spend too much, and tax too much. House Republicans have continued to offer better solutions that will rein in deficits and get our economy back on track. We have brought to the table proven strategies to provide relief for American families and small businesses to help them grow our economy and create jobs. I hope this Administration and their Democrat allies in Congress will stop the Washington borrowing and spending spree and stand with Republicans to restore some fiscal sanity.” ###
05.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 6, 2009 *To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today highlighting the new, bipartisan American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act (H.R. 2227). “Madame Speaker, I am grateful to be a part of a bipartisan group in Congress that is putting forward new and innovative solutions to our energy needs. “The American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act, introduced this week, is spearheaded by Congressmen Tim Murphy and Neil Abercrombie. It is legislation that would promote the energy sector to start creating jobs immediately. It does not raise taxes on American families. “This strategy promotes the development of cleaner energy and more efficiency. It encourages conservation. It utilizes the vast, proven natural resources we have here in America to not only help address our current energy needs but help fund the development of the next generation of energy resources. “High gas prices and home heating costs threaten the budgets of American families. With this comprehensive strategy, we address those high costs and our environmental concerns while creating jobs. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th in the Global War on Terrorism.” ###
05.05.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 5, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after joining with a bipartisan group of fellow members of Congress to introduce the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act of 2009 (H.R. 2227). “We have a tremendous opportunity here to put our nation onto a strong course of action that will mean America remains a leader in new energy technology and in the pursuit of a cleaner environment. I am extremely grateful to stand with my fellow members of Congress – individuals who represent diverse constituencies with diverse needs but all of whom see a way we can work together towards a common goal. “This legislation will be particularly important to the citizens of South Carolina. It encourages the expansion and development of nuclear power. South Carolina has been a leader in the creation and use of nuclear energy. Additionally, a sizable portion of the royalties and revenues garnered from off-shore oil and natural gas exploration will be returned to the coastal states; and the tourism and hospitality industry that is so vital to our coastal communities will not be adversely affected because all off-shore activity will take place far beyond the line of sight. “This legislation does not just make promises for cleaner energy or more affordable energy. It does not mandate or try to tax our way to a cleaner environment. This bill is the roadmap to a stronger energy future – one in which we pursue the development of new energy alternatives and renewable sources that will make our energy production and energy use affordable and clean. Above all, it pays for these innovations through the commonsense exploration and development of American oil and natural gas. This is a comprehensive strategy to build that bridge to a 21st Century energy infrastructure.” Key Points about the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act: Does not raise taxes on American citizens Opens up offshore resources of 20 miles or further from the coastline Gives 30% of royalties and revenues to producing states Includes loan guarantees for the production of commercial nuclear power plants Provides for the disposition and recycling/reprocessing of spent fuel from nuclear power plants, and the financing of long term safe storage of spent fuel Extends tax credits to help promote smarter energy use and incentives for businesses and individuals to develop cleaner energy products For a complete summary of the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act, please click here. ###
04.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 29, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today as the Obama Administration marks their first 100 days in power – 100 days of big spending and growth in government. “Under the Obama Administration, our nation is 100 days older and deeper in debt,” said Rep. Wilson. “It is clear that President Obama and his Democrat allies in Congress have taken an economic crisis and chosen to exasperate a fiscal crisis. Unlike the change they promised, the only thing particularly novel about this first 100 days is the unprecedented speed at which they have been willing to place this nation and future generations into greater and greater debt.” Today, House Democrats passed a $3.6 trillion budget proposal for FY2010 that includes $1.5 trillion in future tax hikes on American families and small businesses and future annual budget deficits that never dip below $500 billion. “It is fitting that this new administration and their Democrat allies would celebrate their first 100 days by passing a budget that creates more debt than every prior president combined. Their budget doubles the national debt in five years and nearly triples it in 10 years by consistently creating the highest annual budget deficits this country has ever seen. It is a blueprint for runaway spending and tax hikes on American families. It is a massive down payment on an unsustainable expansion in government size and influence.” ###
04.28.2009	* For more information on the Global Health Caucus and Swine Flu, click here. Congressional Global Health Caucus JOINT PRESS RELEASE For Immediate Release: April 28, 2009 Washington, DC – As Congress prepares to deal with the public health emergency caused by the swine flu virus, the Congressional Global Health Caucus will hold a briefing next week to address the spread of Swine Influenza in the U.S. and abroad. In light of the rapidly changing information about the infection, which has passed the point of containment, and the challenge of keeping Congress informed and prepared to respond, caucus leaders will lead an important information effort to help Members stay up-to-date about the global spread of the disease. “This swine flu outbreak is a serious global health threat that requires action by governments, medical professionals, and individuals. Our collective ability to deal with this public health emergency depends on us being knowledgeable about flu prevention so we can learn best practices and act. The Global Health Caucus was set up for this very purpose – to fill the information gap and help connect the dots. President Obama is correct in saying that right now the virus is a cause for concern, but not panic. I will continue to work with the administration to make sure we are taking every step necessary to protect the health and safety of the American people and the global community,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “While no cases in the U.S. have yet proved fatal, it is important that we remain prepared and vigilant in our efforts to contain the Swine Flu virus. This must include involvement at all levels of government, including internationally. The U.S. and Mexico need to work together on a coordinated response to prevent this outbreak from becoming a pandemic, and both governments must prepare and communicate to their citizens about ongoing developments. Every individual needs to take precautions to help contain the pandemic, and we must all be cautious about our health and well-being to protect our families and especially our children from contracting this dangerous virus,” Congressman Reichert said. The Department of Health and Human Services declared a public health emergency as a precautionary measure to ensure the U.S. can easily and immediately access vital resources. The caucus will closely monitor the outbreak and its potential to become an epidemic and disseminate timely information to Members and staff by circulating Dear Colleagues communications and convening briefings about the evolving situation. “The swine flu has emerged as a global health threat, and it deserves our immediate attention. I am grateful to be a part of the Global Health Caucus as we work to educate our fellow members of Congress and the American people about this issue. Having accurate and up-to-date information will help American families be better prepared,” Congressman Wilson said. “In the midst of this new infectious disease outbreak, it can be difficult to stay focused on long-term goals; but we must. Well-funded medical research, access to primary care for everyone including those in rural and underserved areas, health care reform that ensures all Americans have access to affordable health care, affordable pharmaceuticals, good health education, and well-functioning infectious disease reporting systems are all vital to public health. We must also recognize that these diseases infect the world, and we must continue to be advocates and supporters of underserved world communities; because if we don’t, we will all be more vulnerable,” Congressman Snyder said. “The swine flu coming as the country and the world is still reeling from the economic turmoil will certainly challenge our public health system, that of countries everywhere and our ability to collaborate as a global community. I am hopeful that the near miss with SARS and our preparation for pandemic avian flu will enable us to address and contain swine flu. My biggest concern is for our more vulnerable populations and I urge CDC and our national leaders to pay special attention to them,” Congresswoman Christensen said. The Co-chairs of the bipartisan caucus are U.S. Representatives Betty McCollum, Dave Reichert, Vic Snyder, Donna Christensen, Mike Simpson and Joe Wilson. The Congressional Global Health Caucus provides a forum for Members of Congress, congressional staff and the global health community to share information, dialogue and enhance understanding regarding the existing and emerging global health challenges facing the U.S. and the world. ###
04.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 24, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after introducing H.R. 2063, a bill to require the Department of Treasury to use any money repaid under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to pay down the national debt. “The American people are fed up with the massive borrowing and spending we’ve seen from this Administration and their Democrat allies in Congress. It is imperative we restore some fiscal sanity in Washington, and this bill is an important part of that effort. Money that has been borrowed and loaned to help stabilize the financial industry should, when repaid to the Treasury, go straight to paying down the debt. It should not be left to the imagination of Washington bureaucrats or Congress to spend on pet projects or more bailouts.” Background on H.R. 2063: Repaid Troubled Asset Relief Program funds will be used to pay down the public debt Each time a financial institution makes a repayment of assistance provided under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the amount of purchase authority provided under TARP shall be reduced by a corresponding amount. ###
04.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 17, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after recent unsolicited, automated phone calls into the Second Congressional District claimed Congressman Wilson opposes pay increases for our troops. On the contrary, Congressman Wilson has actually introduced legislation that would increase military pay by 3.4% for Fiscal Year 2010 (H.R. 1864). President Obama and his Democrat allies in Congress have requested only the federally-mandated minimum of 2.9%. “It is a great honor to not only have served in our Armed Forces but to have the privilege to represent so many brave Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines in the Second Congressional District. That is why I continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to increase the quality of life for our military and our veterans. I look forward to talking to the families of South Carolina who deserve straight answers, not distorted political rhetoric, on what I am doing to promote our military, their families, and all South Carolina families.” ###
04.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 15, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on Tax Day as Republicans continue to fight against Democrat tax hikes that will punish success and incentivize runaway government spending. Additionally, House Republicans recently offered, as part of our budget proposal, a simplified tax code that would provide an alternative to the current overly complex and burdensome tax code. “The federal government has an obligation to every citizen to be a good steward of their tax dollars. That means we root out waste, fraud, and abuse in federal spending; we do not grow the government beyond the means to pay for it; and we do not raise taxes in order to avoid making the tough decisions necessary to restore fiscal responsibility. “Unfortunately, it is becoming clearer everyday to the American people that this Democrat majority has failed to uphold their end of the bargain. That is why today thousands of Americans all across this country are participating in protests against the type of burdensome taxation and fiscally irresponsible spending spree that has been the hallmark of the Democrat majority’s agenda. This is an agenda that will produce trillions in current and future debt; one that turns a blind eye to the short-term and long-term damage that will be done by massive borrowing; and, an agenda committed to raising taxes on all Americans and small businesses – including canceling President Obama’s middle-class tax cut. “House Republicans remain focused on empowering the American people not Washington bureaucrats. Our priorities have focused on encouraging job creation through tax relief for small businesses and American families, commonsense incentives for homebuyers, and we’ve stood with the American people to make those tough choices that will restore fiscal sanity to Washington. Just as important, Republicans have offered an alternative, simplified tax code to help lessen the burden American families face each tax season.” ###
04.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 2, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today as the House of Representatives debated the budget for Fiscal Year 2010. “The Democrat budget is a blueprint for massive increases in spending, increased borrowing, and higher taxes. It does not invest in the American people so much as it invests in government and passes the bill on to Americans of this generation and generations to come. It takes more money out of the pockets of American consumers, business owners, investors, and uses those hard-earned dollars to pay for an unprecedented expansion in the scope of government influence. Such size and influence and the tax-burden that invariably comes with it would replace the proven creativity and job creating power of the individual and the private sector – a power that President John F. Kennedy believed in when he cut taxes and promoted free market solutions to emerge from recession. “The Republican budget, on the other hand, recognizes that our greatest ally in the pursuit of job creation, economic vitality, better schools, health care, and energy is the American people. Our budget does not relinquish greater control and freedom to Washington bureaucrats. It empowers individuals, entrepreneurs, and small businesses – those who create the majority of jobs in America. It does not exploit a time of tough economic challenges to rapidly expand government; it applies the historical lessons learned from massive borrowing and stifling tax increases to make the same tough choices we see American families making all across this country. “Republicans believe the federal government should share the burden of these tough economic times by instituting some fiscal sanity into our budgetary process and maintain the promises this government has made to the American people. That is why our budget makes a conscience effort to reform entitlements, simplify the tax code, stop the damage done to the American dollar by evermore borrowing, and promote necessary reforms in areas such as health care and energy.” ###
04.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 2, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, issued the following statement today after introducing H.R.1864, bipartisan legislation to raise basic military pay by 3.4 percent. Under the President’s budget, basic pay would only be increased by the 2.9 percent required by law. “Our military deserve just recognition for the extraordinary and courageous work they do to protect American families by defeating terrorists overseas,” said Rep. Wilson. “For the benefit of our military personnel as well as their families, this increase would help close the gap between civilian and military pay. I look forward to working with my colleagues as we honor the tremendous sacrifice made by our brave soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen.” “This is a time when our military is deployed around the world protecting America and our allies,” said Armed Services Committee Ranking Member John M. McHugh. “I commend Congressman Wilson for introducing this legislation and working to ensure we keep our commitment to America’s military personnel and their families.” In addition to Rep. Wilson, the following Members of Congress signed onto the legislation as co-sponsors: Rep John H. Adler [D-NJ] Rep W. Todd Akin [R-MO] Rep Roscoe G. Bartlett, [R-MD] Rep Judy Biggert [R-IL] Rep Gus M. Bilirakis [R-FL] Rep Marsha Blackburn [R-TN] Rep John A. Boehner [R-OH] Rep Paul C. Broun [R-GA] Rep Ginny Brown-Waite [R-FL] Rep Eric Cantor [R-VA] Rep Jason Chaffetz [R-UT] Rep K. Michael Conaway [R-TX] Rep Geoff Davis [R-KY] Rep Mary Fallin [R-OK] Rep John Fleming [R-LA] Rep J. Randy Forbes [R-VA] Rep Trent Franks [R-AZ] Rep Gregg Harper [R-MS] Rep Dean Heller [R-NV] Rep Duncan D. Hunter [R-CA] Rep Timothy V. Johnson [R-IL] Rep Walter B. Jones, Jr. [R-NC] Rep John Kline [R-MN] Rep Doug Lamborn [R-CO] Rep Frank A. LoBiondo [R-NJ] Rep Blaine Luetkemeyer [R-MO] Rep Eric J. J. Massa [D-NY] Rep John M. McHugh [R-NY] Rep Cathy McMorris Rodgers [R-WA] Rep Jeff Miller [R-FL] Rep Glenn C. Nye, III [D-VA] Rep Pete Olson [R-TX] Rep Ed Pastor [D-AZ] Rep Tom Price [R-GA] Rep David G. Reicher, [R-WA] Rep Ciro D. Rodriguez [D-TX] Rep Mike J. Rogers [R-MI] Rep Thomas J. Rooney [R-FL] Rep Ileana Ros-Lehtinen [R-FL] Rep John B. Shadegg [R-AZ] Rep Bill Shuster [R-PA] Rep Robert J. Wittman [R-VA] ###
03.27.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 27, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, issued the following statement today in response to the announcement of President Obama’s new strategy for operations in Afghanistan. “Today’s announcement by President Obama based on his consultation with our military commanders seems to be a good faith effort to advance stability in Afghanistan and in the region as a whole. I am cautiously optimistic that this new strategy will move our operations and allied efforts in Afghanistan in a more positive direction and help achieve the larger and equally important goal of stability and security in the region. I am, as ever, confident in our military’s ability to carry out successfully the mission they are given, and I will work with my colleagues to ensure our military personnel have every resource necessary to complete their mission and to protect American families.” ###
03.26.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 26, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented him with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress. “Our nation is strong because of the hard work and spirit of the American people, not from the scope and size of government,” said Rep. Wilson. “In an effort to empower individual Americans, families, small businesses, and entrepreneurs, I will continue to support policies that create jobs and put opportunity into the hands of those who will grow our economy. I am honored by this recognition and will continue to fight for pro-growth policies that protect the wallet of American taxpayers.” “Last year in particular, Congress had to make some tough choices, and Representative Wilson clearly demonstrated his commitment to the economy and keeping America competitive in an ever-changing global market,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “The Chamber is proud to present Representative Wilson with the Spirit of Enterprise Award on behalf of businesses large and small.” Note: Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of key votes receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award. According to the scorecard, Representative Wilson maintained a 100% rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds a 78% ranking during his tenure in Congress. ###
03.25.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Dan Boren (OK-02) issued the following statement today following a press conference to highlight their efforts to close the gap in early retirement eligibility for National Guard and Reserve soldiers. Congressman Wilson, with the support of Congressman Boren, introduced the National Guardsmen and Reservists Parity for Patriots Act (H.R. 208) which amends the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 (NDAA) to repair the gap in eligibility for National Guard and Reserve members to receive credit towards early retirement by including any active duty service since September 11th, 2001. Current eligibility only applies to service following the enactment of the 2008 NDAA on January 28, 2008. “Since September 11, 2001, our National Guard and Reserve soldiers have fought bravely in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom,” said Rep. Wilson. “Their courage and dedication throughout this transition to a more active duty role should be reflected in their retirement benefit system. I greatly appreciate Congressman Boren’s support in this effort, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure we continue to honor the tremendous sacrifices made by all the members of our Armed Forces and their families.” “These brave men and women deserve to be included in the retirement benefits enacted under the Defense Authorization Act of 2008. Their service should be counted toward retirement because their sacrifice for the last 8 years has been critical to the security of our entire nation. I am proud to join Congressman Wilson on this common sense piece of legislation. It is yet another way we can provide long term benefits to those who have fought bravely in the War on Terror,” said Rep. Boren Note: More than 600,000 members of the reserve components have been mobilized in support of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and for other contingency operations. More than 145,000 members have been mobilized more than once. ###
03.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 24, 2009 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (Wilson) (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Cole Perryman (Boren) (202) 225-2701 (Office) (202) 286-0781 (Cell) **MEDIA ADVISORY** Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Dan Boren (OK-02) will hold a press conference TOMORROW, Wednesday, March 25th with the Reserve Officers Association of the United States to discuss their efforts to expand retirement benefits for National Guard and Reserve soldiers. Congressman Wilson, with the support of Congressman Boren, introduced the National Guardsmen and Reservists Parity for Patriots Act (H.R. 208). This bill amends the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 (NDAA) to repair the gap in eligibility for National Guard and Reserve members to receive credit towards early retirement by including any active duty service since September 11th, 2001. Current eligibility only applies to service following the enactment of the 2008 NDAA on January 28, 2008. WHO: Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) Congressman Dan Boren (OK-02) Reserve Officers Association of the United States WHEN: Wednesday, March 25, 2009 at 2:00 PM WHERE: Reserve Officers Association 101 Constitution Avenue, NE Washington, DC 20002 ###
03.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 24, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, released the following prepared remarks today for the subcommittee’s joint hearing with the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats, and Capabilities Subcommittee on Department of Defense (DOD) health information technology. “Thank you Chairwoman Davis. I appreciate joining our good friends on the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities subcommittee today, led by my long-time friend Vice Chairman Mike McIntyre and the extraordinary Ranking Member Jeff Miller, for our hearing on the Military Health System’s information technology and electronic health record. I welcome the distinguished members of our two panels. “A unique aspect of military service is that military members and their families move every few years. For that reason alone, it is critical that the Department of Defense have an electronic health system that can follow our military wherever they happen to be…including in a combat zone. I know first-hand of its importance, with four sons currently in the military—two have served in Iraq, another in Egypt, and the fourth just joined the Army National Guard. We must have a military health system capable of documenting health care provided to service members throughout their time in the military and be accessible to the Veterans Administration when they leave military service. “Thirty years ago the Department of Defense recognized the need for an electronic health system. To their credit, the Department began the enormous task of developing and fielding a system designed not only to function as an electronic health record but to also capture health data that can be used for population screening and medical surveillance. “Today we will hear from our witnesses about the DOD electronic health system known as AHLTA. While I applaud the Department for the tremendous effort it took to field this system, I have serious concerns about the state of this system today. “The committee has heard from military doctors and nurses who use AHLTA that it is unreliable, difficult to use, and has decreased the number of patients they can see each day. We have also heard that medical professionals leave the military because of their frustration with AHLTA. “I hope our military service witnesses here today will touch on what they believe needs to be done to make the system work for their medical professionals. From the DOD witnesses, I would appreciate their perspective on how they plan to fix the system to make it more reliable, user friendly and easier for our terrific military personnel to provide the best medical care to our troops and their families. “With that, I would like to thank our witnesses for participating in the hearing today. I look forward to your testimony.” ###
03.19.2009	Republican Bipartisan Solution Would Return 100% of Taxpayer Dollars FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 19, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the Democrat leadership passed a constitutionally-questionable tax increase in response to their own spending bill which cleared the way for bonus payments to AIG executives. Democrats had opposed efforts by House Republicans to get 100% of the taxpayer dollars back. “Today’s vote was the Democrats’ attempt to clean up the mess they made and skirt responsibility for it. They’ve chosen to pass a potentially unconstitutional tax hoping that public anger will hide the very simple fact that it was the Democrat leadership who wrote the stimulus bill, included language to allow these bonuses, and rushed the bill through Congress before the American people could figure it all out. We would all be far better served if the majority would channel a little bit of their own outrage towards reinstating some sanity into the legislative process so these types of actions do not happen in the future. “Republicans offered bipartisan legislation to get the taxpayer dollars back. Our solution would have required Treasury to recoup 100% of the bonuses paid out before considering sending one dollar more to AIG. Yet our Democrat colleagues opposed the idea. The Republican proposal would have been a measured response to this issue rather than the reactionary, retroactive tax hike offered by Democrats to divert attention away from their own culpability.” Background: While crafting, behind closed doors, their so-called economic “stimulus” package, Democrat leadership inserted language that specifically prohibited limits on bonus payments. House Republicans attempted to offer legislation that would have required the Department of the Treasury to recoup bonus payments made by AIG. This effort was opposed by a large majority of Democrats in the House of Representatives. ###
03.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 18, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today applauded the U.S. Army’s decision to significantly curtail the use of stop-loss for American military personnel and compensate soldiers who have been impacted by the policy. “The Army’s decision to work toward ending stop-loss is welcome news for our military personnel and their families. We’re also pleased that the Army will begin further compensating soldiers affected by stop-loss. This is something we all support and should applaud,” said Rep. Wilson. “There is, unfortunately, a potential concern in that we don’t yet know the details on how the change in stop-loss policy will affect the Army’s ability to generate the necessary operational strengths and ensure that deploying units are overmanned to support ongoing contingency operations. I have complete faith that we can determine the best course of action to address that concern and move forward,” continued Wilson. “It is our duty to provide the military the flexibility and resources to meet their operational needs, and I look forward to working with my colleagues as we support today’s decision and continue to strengthen our military.” For more information, please visit the Department of Defense website. ###
03.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 18, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, released the following prepared remarks for today’s hearing of the House Armed Services Subcommittees on Readiness and Military Personnel entitled, “Medical Infrastructure: Are Health Affairs/TRICARE Management Activity Priorities Aligned With Service Requirements?” “Thank you Chairwoman Davis. I appreciate joining our good friends on the Readiness subcommittee today, led by Chairman Solomon Ortiz and Ranking Member Randy Forbes, for our hearing on military medical construction. I welcome the distinguished members of our witness panel. “I believe that there is nothing more important than providing the outstanding members of our military, their families and our retirees with world class health care delivered in world class medical facilities. There is no question in my mind that they deserve nothing less. Our family has experienced the quality service with two grandsons born at Bethesda National Naval Medical Center and a granddaughter born at Portsmouth Naval Hospital. “With that being said, I understand that there are a number of military treatment facilities that are thirty or more years old. In the district I represent in South Carolina, Moncrief Army Community Hospital at Fort Jackson was built in 1972 and the Navy Hospital at Beaufort was built in 1947. “I know that the outstanding medical personnel in each of these facilities provide excellent care to our troops and their families. On personal tours of each facility, I have been very impressed by the dedicated and competent professional personnel I have met. I also know that as a medical facility gets older it is more challenging to keep up with advances in medicine. “As I prepared for the hearing today, I was reminded that the planning process for military medical construction is very different than for other types of construction within the Department of Defense. I am interested to hear from our panel why medical construction is unique within the Department. “To that end, today I hope to hear from our witnesses how the Department and the military services plan to spend medical construction dollars to either replace or modernize our military hospitals. The members of our armed forces deserve the best. “With that, I would like to thank our witnesses for participating in the hearing today. I look forward to your testimony.” ###
03.17.2009	*To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 17, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today highlighting the tax increases on American families included in the Democrat Budget. “Mr. Speaker, Democrats have broken their promise not to raise taxes on 95 percent of Americans. Democrats are proposing to tax small businesses and everyone who plans to turn on a light, drive a car, or heat their home. “Under the Democrat budget, many small businesses will see their taxes go up. At a time when our economy is in trouble, this budget raises taxes on the one group that creates the most jobs in America. “But small businesses are not alone. Under the new Democrat cap, trade, and tax proposal, every household in this country would pay as much as $3,128 each year in higher energy costs. This would surely overwhelm any tax break they may be getting. “The President says this budget is not just about numbers on a page. I agree. There are real families and small businesses that will be hurt by the $1.4 trillion in new taxes this budget will create. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.12.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 12, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing to receive an overview of military resale and morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) programs. “This subcommittee has had a longstanding commitment to improve the quality of life of the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. One way we have shown that commitment is through efforts to sustain and even expand the MWR, commissary and exchange benefits. We must continue that aggressive approach. “Our witnesses today have diverse responsibilities that span the complex worlds of MWR, installations, commissaries and exchanges. They also face difficult challenges. “Given the wartime, high operations tempo of the Armed Forces today, the need for the organizations represented here to provide their product – quality of life – to their customers has never been greater. Moreover, the demand of their customers – active, Guard, reserve, retirees, and their families – for quality of life improvements and an expansion of the benefit has never been higher. “I sincerely appreciate the efforts by our witnesses to provide wider opportunities for reserve and National Guard personnel here in the United States to take advantage of the commissary and exchange benefits. I am also thankful for the leadership, exemplified in our witnesses today, that has worked continuously to provide support to all military personnel, their families, and to retirees. “As a veteran, I know firsthand of your providing modern, people friendly facilities. The highest compliment I can give you is that my wife and my mother-in-law, who is a widow of a veteran, are very satisfied customers of the Commissary and PX at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. With a higher percentage of married service members than ever before, your services are needed more than ever before.” ###
03.11.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 11, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after Dixie-Narco and their parent company, Crane Company, announced the expansion of nearly 1000 jobs at their Williston plant. “Today’s announcement by Dixie-Narco is great news for the hard working people of Williston and the State of South Carolina. Many communities in our state – including Barnwell County – have been hit hardest by this troubled economy. I am especially proud for the people of Williston today as this announcement is a clear recognition of the quality and talent of those who live and work in their community. “I wish to thank Secretary Joe Taylor and Bob Marriott of the South Carolina Department of Commerce, Marty Martin of the Barnwell County Economic Development Commission, Danny Black and Kay Maxwell of SouthernCarolina Alliance, and Eric Fast, president and CEO of Crane Company, for their commitment to this project and to the people of Barnwell County. Working together with so many others in the community – including my colleagues in Congress – we have fought to keep and create more jobs in South Carolina. I look forward to continuing our strong partnership on behalf of the people we have the privilege to represent and serve.” ###
03.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 10, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, issued the following statement as Democrats introduced the “Employee Free Choice Act” – job-killing legislation that strips American workers of their right to a secret ballot election when choosing to join a union. “At a time when our economy is in trouble, this bill would cost our country thousands of additional jobs and diminish the fundamental right to privacy for hard working Americans. Rather than protecting employees, it invites coercion and intimidation into the workplace by forcing employees to make their approval or disapproval of unionization fodder for public scrutiny. It is a step backwards for employee rights, and a painful shot to our already troubled economy.” Congressman Wilson recently spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about the Secret Ballot Protection Act (H.R. 1176) – commonsense legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Wilson that would preserve the right of every worker to a secret ballot election when deciding whether or not to join a union. ###
03.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 6, 2009 The House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel today held its second hearing in a series focused on sexual assault in the military. Today’s hearing focused on ongoing efforts to prevent sexual assault. Subcommittee Ranking Member Joe Wilson (R-SC) released the following prepared remarks for the hearing. “Thank you Chairwoman Davis. Today’s hearing is important because the key to eliminating sexual assault in the military is to prevent it. I welcome the members of our two panels who I believe can provide useful insight into prevention programs. I sincerely appreciate the willingness of Mr. John Foubert and Mr. David Lee to join us to talk about strategies for combating sexual assault based on their research and programs in colleges and universities throughout the United States. “I applaud the Department of Defense and the military services for recognizing the importance of prevention and for the steps they have taken to improve programs focused on preventing this crime. With that said, we must not only be assured that the Department of Defense concentrates on programs to prevent sexual assault, but also that the Department will spare nothing to provide victims of sexual assault with the services that they need. We also must know that the Department will aggressively pursue and prosecute perpetrators of this heinous crime. “Today I hope to hear from our witnesses how the Department and the military services are implementing the prevention aspect of the comprehensive policy for the prevention and response to sexual assaults. Congress mandated this policy through the work of this subcommittee in 2005. What policies and programs are working? How do you measure the program’s success? Where does the system fall short? Have you identified areas that need improvement? How can we help? “It is clear that the Department and the military services have recognized the importance of partnering with nationally recognized civilian experts to identify best practices and find the right solutions to prevent this devastating crime. I commend the leadership for looking outside of their own organizations and for utilizing all available resources to protect the health and welfare of our service members. Our commitment to help you achieve this goal is unwavering.” ###
03.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 5, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a housing bill that will bailout irresponsible behavior at the expense of taxpayers and those who played by the rules. Wilson supported an amendment to the legislation that would have expressly prohibited anyone from receiving taxpayer dollars or protection under this bill if they misrepresented or lied about their income when applying for a mortgage. This is similar to an amendment Congressman Wilson introduced during earlier consideration of the housing bill but which the majority chose to not allow for debate. “All of us here are committed to helping American families stay in their homes. As a former real estate attorney for 25 years, I know firsthand the benefits of homeownership and the tragedy of foreclosure. But good intentions are not a substitute for good solutions. “House Republicans offered a commonsense amendment to this bill that would have kept judges from forcing banks to renegotiate mortgages for individuals who intentionally misled their lender. Unfortunately, the majority voted against this protection for the American taxpayers while endorsing a plan that will likely lead to higher interest rates for homeowners and greater uncertainty in our markets. Republicans believe we should stop rewarding bad behavior and start protecting American taxpayers.” ###
03.05.2009	*To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 5, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to be an original co-sponsor of the Secret Ballot Protection Act – a piece of commonsense legislation introduced last week. This bill preserves the right of every worker to a secret ballot election when deciding whether or not to join a union. “We can all agree that intimidation and coercion have no place in our working environment and should not be a part of a worker’s decision to join or not join a union. After all, Americans have the right to elect their representatives here in Washington by a secret ballot. Why should the decision to elect representation in the work place be any different? “The Secret Ballot Protection Act would guarantee the fundamental right of privacy – a vital part of our nation’s founding principles. It would protect American workers and American industry from the powerful special interests here in Washington. It would promote jobs in America. “In conclusion God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.04.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 4, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in response to the inclusion of a cap and trade proposal for carbon emissions in President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2010 Budget. Such a proposal would raise energy prices for American consumers according to OMB Director Peter Orszag. In a September 2008 testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Orszag, then Director of the Congressional Budget Office, stated that “decreasing those emissions would also impose costs on the economy…much of those costs will be passed along to consumers in the form of higher prices for energy and energy intensive goods.” “Raising taxes during an economic recession will only prolong the downturn or squander economic gains that may be made during a recovery. Raising energy prices on American families is not the correct course of action to either limit carbon emissions or expand the federal government’s coffers for more government spending. Rather than cap, trade, and tax we should be promoting proven alternatives like nuclear energy. In South Carolina, we get nearly 50% of our electricity from nuclear power. This is a technology that can advance our energy infrastructure and contribute to a reduction in carbon emissions.” ###
03.04.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 4, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after accepting the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS) G.V. “Sonny” Montgomery Eagle Award. The citation accompanying the award states that it is given “for exceptional meritorious achievement championing legislation critically important to National Guard enlisted men and women, their families, and veterans.” Congressman Wilson received this year’s award for his legislation pertaining to early retirement benefits for Guard and Reserve members. Under the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), National Guard and Reserve members are able to receive early retirement benefits prior to the age of 60 based on their mobilization for operations overseas. The National Guardsmen and Reservists Parity for Patriots Act introduced by Congressman Wilson makes the law retroactive to September 11, 2001 in order to include service performed prior to enactment of the NDAA. The award also recognizes Congressman Wilson’s continued support for the National Guard Youth Challenge Program. “As a retired member with sons currently serving in the South Carolina National Guard, I have had a lifelong appreciation of our National Guard members and their dedication to our nation. I am tremendously honored to work on behalf of our brave citizen soldiers – particularly as we have seen our National Guard transition from a strategic reserve to an operation force fighting on the front lines of the War on Terror. They deserve our utmost respect and gratitude.” “It was an honor to recognize the outstanding support that Congressman Wilson has given the members of the National Guard and his recognition of the sacrifices that our soldiers and airmen have given in the defense of America,” said EANGUS President Command Sergeant Major (Retired) A. Frank Lever III. “It was truly a privilege to honor this fine American.” The G. V. “Sonny” Montgomery Eagle Award is one of two awards given annually by the Enlisted Association of the National Guard. It is named after Mississippi Congressman G. V. “Sonny” Montgomery. ###
03.03.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 3, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing to receive an overview on military end strength, recruiting, and retention. “We have two excellent witness panels today. Their efforts have directly contributed to the extraordinary success of the active and reserve components in not only sustaining the all volunteer force during a highly stressful time, but also, in the case of the Army, Marine Corps and Army National Guard, in substantially accelerating the growth of the force. I want to thank each of our witnesses for their efforts. “With regard to growth, the Army and the Marine Corps sought strengths of 547,400 and 202,000, respectively, to be achieved in 2011 or beyond. Amazingly, they will achieve those strengths before the end of this year. The Army National Guard has already exceeded its 2013 strength goal of 358,000. This accelerated growth reflects the effects of the final budget submitted by President Bush, and the subsequent fine work of our witnesses today. “The challenge for President Obama’s 2009 supplemental funding proposal and for the 2010 budget request is to sustain that accelerated growth in the Army, Marine Corps and Army National Guard. “Moreover, I understand that both the Navy and the Air Force will seek to increase strength in 2010 and beyond. I look forward to the details of the President’s budget request next month to see if that additional Navy and Air Force growth is provided. “I firmly believe that our military needs to be larger to address the full range of missions we have levied upon it and to ensure that the stress on the force, and the families who support it, is minimized. Any calls now to reduce military manpower to fund modernization would be shortsighted. Both the Air Force and Navy have reached that conclusion. I would hope the Congress will, too. “The keys to sustaining and increasing military manpower are recruiting, retention and control of unplanned attrition. Our two panels today can help us to better understand the challenges in each of those areas. “So I join you, Madame Chairwoman, in welcoming our witnesses and look forward to their testimony.” ###
02.27.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 27, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after President Obama announced his plans for withdrawal of United States combat forces from Iraq. “Any decision made regarding the size and nature of our forces in Iraq or any theater of combat must be made deliberately and cautiously. It must be a strategic determination with the safety of our brave Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines as our primary responsibility. “I appreciate that President Obama has signaled his willingness to revisit his strategy if conditions on the ground change. This will help ensure that our troops are protected and the hard fought gains we have seen are not lost. “It is thanks to the tremendous courage and professionalism of our military and their leadership – including General David Petraeus and General Ray Odierno – that we have an opportunity to begin bringing our troops home with success. Our generation and future generations will be forever in their debt for having sacrificed so much for our freedom.” ###
02.25.2009	*To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Mr. Speaker, House Republicans remain ready to tackle the tough challenges facing our nation. Getting our economy back on track, providing affordable, quality education and health care, and protecting American families are of concern to every American and every member of this body. “But there are differences. On the issue of raising taxes, House Republicans are concerned that this would destroy jobs in an already troubled economy. We oppose plans that will continue to borrow and spend. We believe the American people should keep more of their own money. And government should limit its own budget. “Fiscal responsibility must mean we limit spending not just raise taxes in order to build more government. We stand ready to work with our colleagues to make these tough decisions. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
02.25.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed an omnibus spending bill totaling $410 billion – an eight percent increase in appropriated funding over FY 2008 levels. Congressman Wilson opposed this legislation while expressing support for an immediate freeze on government spending at current levels. “Today’s omnibus spending bill is not the type of fiscally responsible, reform-minded leadership the American people voted for and deserve. If this Congress is going to chart a different course in how we govern, we cannot continue to bring legislation like today’s bill to the floor with little debate and massive increases in spending.” The rule under which the omnibus bill was brought to the House of Representatives for debate included a provision to suspend the automatic pay increase for Members of Congress in 2010. Congressman Wilson voted in favor of this rule. “When Americans are losing their jobs and seeing their pay cut, Members of Congress should not be getting a raise. Today’s vote in favor of a halt to the congressional pay increase was a small but important show of respect to American taxpayers. Unfortunately, the omnibus spending bill was not.” ###
02.25.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, issued the following statement today calling on President Barack Obama to support expanded health care and retirement benefits for National Guard and Reserve servicemembers. During his address to a Joint-Session of Congress last night, President Obama said, “to keep our sacred trust with those who serve, we will raise their pay, and give our veterans the expanded health care and benefits that they have earned.” Under the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2008, National Guard and Reserve members are able to receive early retirement benefits prior to the age of 60 based on their mobilization for operations overseas. This bill provides that for every ninety days of mobilization, three months of credit will be given toward retirement. Current law only accounts for active duty service that has occurred since the enactment of the 2008 NDAA. Active duty service prior to that date is not counted toward this early retirement credit system. Congressman Wilson has introduced legislation to expand retirement and health care benefits for Guard and Reserve members: H.R 208, the National Guardsmen and Reservists Parity for Patriots Act, amends the date of enactment of the credit system to September 11, 2001, which would cover all the Guardsmen and Reservists who were mobilized and honorably served our nation in the Global War on Terrorism. H.R. 972, a bill to allow Guard and Reserve members to begin receiving full TRICARE benefits at the same time as their early retirement benefits. “President Obama has made it clear that he shares a desire to expand the retirement and health care benefits for those who serve this nation in uniform,” said Rep. Wilson. “Since the tragic terrorist attacks of September 11th, more than 600,000 National Guard and Reserve members have been mobilized to serve in the War on Terror. These citizen soldiers have grown from a strategic reserve to an operation force that has seen combat overseas. Their service and sacrifice should be counted.” “I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to address this issue and others that pertain to our Armed Forces and the courageous men and women who serve.” ###
02.25.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 25, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing to receive views and legislative suggestions from military advocacy and beneficiary groups. “Thank you, Mrs. Davis, for holding this hearing. And thank you to each member of today’s panel. I truly appreciate your willingness to share your views on important issues spanning the full breadth of the subcommittee’s jurisdiction. This testimony will surely help to shape our legislative and funding priorities, as we strive to improve the military personnel, health care, and Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) systems of the Department of Defense. “I am especially grateful that we will hear today from Ms. Margaret McCloud, a Gold Star Wife whose husband, Lieutenant Colonel Trane McCloud, was killed in action in Iraq. Trane was an active duty Marine and served as my Defense Legislative Fellow in 2003. “I would also like to thank Mrs. Davis for agreeing to my request that the panel include witnesses to address National Guard and reserve issues. “Madam Chair, based on my review of the testimony submitted to us, the recommendations made by the various groups fall into two broad categories: 1) those that are strictly policy issues that require little or no additional funding; and, 2) those legislative changes that would require additional discretionary or mandatory spending. “While fiscally more difficult, many of the proposals that will make an immediate and positive impact on our service members and their families fall into the latter category. Some examples include: an annual pay raise of one half of one percent above the Employment Cost Index (ECI), improving reserve component retirement compensation, eliminating concurrent receipt and Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP)-Dependent Indemnity Compensation (DIC) offsets, and prohibiting substantial increases in health care cost sharing. “It has been said that a time was coming when we might not be able to come up with the offsets for these proposals. However, in today’s environment, when the Congress and the President have committed to spending trillions of dollars – that is thousands of billions – to rescue the economy, it’s my view that the Congress can find the additional funding required to protect the men and women, and their families, who make incredible daily sacrifice in service to our nation. “I would urge that the subcommittee provide recommendations for additional mandatory spending headroom to Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McHugh for inclusion in the HASC’s Views and Estimates letter. Madam Chair, I would welcome the opportunity to work with you in that effort. “Again, I thank you for holding this hearing and look forward to the testimony of our witnesses.” ###
02.23.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 23, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks this morning on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Mr. Speaker, today there is a fiscal responsibility summit at the White House. I hope this summit will be the beginning of important decisions Congress is going to make in order to limit the rising cost of government. “It is disappointing that this summit came after Congress passed a trillion dollar spending package last week that many of my colleagues and many Americans do not believe was the right way to stimulate our economy. Nevertheless, it is vital that we start anew and sincerely, to make responsibility the foundation of governing. “We need reforms that protect the services and benefits promised to American families while not growing the burden of taxation, tragic inflation, or the long-term tide of wasteful spending. If we are truly dedicated to protecting and preserving services like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, then indeed we must reform them to keep them solvent. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
02.13.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 13, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the 263rd Army Air and Missile Defense Command of the South Carolina Army National Guard received the 2008 Department of Defense Reserve Family Readiness Award. This honor is given to National Guard and Reserve units who have developed the highest quality family support and readiness programs. This is the second time the 263rd Army Air and Missile Defense Command has been awarded this distinction. “Family readiness is a vital part of the strength of our Armed Forces, and I wish to commend the South Carolina Army National Guard on their service to our state and our nation. The exemplary work done by the 263rd Army Air and Missile Defense Command has earned them not only today’s tremendous honor but the respect and gratitude of their peers and the communities they serve.” ###
02.13.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 13, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed a massive spending agenda that will create half as many jobs as the Republican economic package and cost twice as much to the American taxpayers. “There has not been one moment during this economic recession when the two choices Congress faced were passing a massive spending bill or doing nothing at all. We all share the urgency for bold and decisive action. We all have constituents that have lost their jobs and are looking to us for leadership. But despite what some of my colleagues may be saying, we did indeed have other options we could have considered today and throughout this debate. House Republicans have consistently offered targeted and timely solutions to this economic recession that would have put more money back into the pockets of American families and small businesses – the engines of job creation. “Unfortunately, House Republicans have been shut out of any substantial consideration during this process. The millions of Americans we represent have had their voices shut out by the majority, and we have seen the commonsense, proven methods of economic stimulus we could have considered today replaced by a spending agenda that will saddle future generations with an ever growing debt.” ###
02.11.2009	*To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 11, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Mr. Speaker, our friends on the other side of the aisle continue to frame this stimulus debate as between doing what they want or doing nothing at all. This is simply not the case. “Since the very beginning of this economic crisis and from day one of this Congress, House Republicans have worked to develop proposals that promote job creation. Our solutions provide immediate relief to American families, small businesses, real estate recovery, and homeowners. Our solutions aim at creating jobs. We can create twice the number of jobs at half the spending. “We can bring our set of proposals to the table in the spirit of bipartisanship. We have done so in recognition of the fact that millions of Americans are in financial distress. We must not keep quiet when we know that there are solutions that can create jobs without burdening our children with even greater debt and threatening destructive inflation. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
02.03.2009	*To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 3, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Madame Speaker, yesterday I spoke to some small business owners in South Carolina including Betty Jackson at The Sunset Grill in West Columbia. They are concerned with the billions in spending some in Congress are proposing. They also know that we need to take action and create jobs. I was grateful to tell them that big spending is not the only solution. “There are fiscally responsible solutions that put more money back into the pockets of taxpayers, help American businesses create jobs, and help boost our housing market. “Congress does not have to choose between a big spending agenda and no action. We can create jobs while holding the line on spending. We can help small businesses without expanding government. “Our constituents go to work everyday to make our communities wonderful places to live and to raise families. We must not forget, when we talk about billions of dollars in spending, that this is the taxpayers’ money and not the government’s money. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
01.28.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 28, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed a nearly $1 trillion spending package. Congressman Wilson offered an amendment to the bill that would have stripped out wasteful spending while maintaining funding for military construction, maintenance of our Veterans facilities, homeland security, construction and maintenance of roads and bridges, as well as tax relief for millions of American families and small businesses. The majority refused to consider Congressman Wilson’s amendment on the Floor of the House of Representatives. “At a time when our nation faces tremendous economic uncertainty, Congress has the obligation to craft a stimulus package that will create jobs and provide relief for American families and small businesses. House Republicans have offered commonsense solutions that will fuel job creation in the private sector, not the public sector. We have proposed fiscally responsible assistance for small businesses and for homeowners and homebuyers. Most importantly, our proposals recognize what history has long taught us: the American people, not the federal government, know best how to spend money to create jobs and prosperity. “What we find in today’s House Democrat Leadership bill is the same, old, tired big spending agenda. It passes massive debt onto our children and could mean future tax increases on hardworking Americans as well as hyperinflation. While there are parts of this bill that would normally receive bipartisan support, this is neither the time nor the place to be considering spending money if it will not create jobs and grow the economy in the near future. After all, this was supposed to be an infrastructure focused, tax relief stimulus package that would put Americans back to work fixing things like roads and bridges. It is telling that the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure did not even hold one markup of the legislation in question. “President Obama has told the American people that he seeks a bipartisan solution to our economic crisis. House Democrats have ignored the call for bipartisanship in crafting their bill, and they have ignored the lessons of history that relief for individuals and small businesses, not bloated government spending, are what drive job creation.” ###
01.28.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 28, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, today released the following prepared remarks for the subcommittee’s hearing on the support structure and advocacy available to victims of sexual assault in the military. “Thank you Ms. Davis. Today’s hearing continues the work this subcommittee started several years ago to address the problem of sexual assault within the military. “We began our efforts during Chairman McHugh’s tenure in response to increased reports of sexual assault at our military academies. In 2004, we required the Department of Defense (DOD) to establish a task force to examine sexual harassment and violence at the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. We also asked for an assessment of the effectiveness of the corrective actions taken to address sexual harassment at the United States Air Force Academy. “We followed these initial steps by expanding the mission of the Task Force on Sexual Harassment and Violence at the Military Service Academies to include all of the Armed Forces. We then focused our attention on strategies to improve the Pentagon’s response to sexual assault. As a result, we required DOD to implement a comprehensive policy for the prevention and response to sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces. “In response to concerns we received from the field over the length of time it took to process forensic evidence, we required DOD to eliminate the backlog in the processing of forensic evidence collection kits and ensure that an adequate supply of rape kits are available for all military installations. We also made sure that military personnel who use forensic evidence collection kits receive training to ensure evidence is collected properly. “Finally, working with the Congresswoman from California, Ms. Sanchez, we took an unprecedented and bold step to reform the Uniform Code of Military Justice to establish a comprehensive and modern sexual assault law based on other federal laws and regulations that effectively address sexual assault. “These legislative actions point to this committee’s consistent, thoughtful and aggressive approach to addressing the issue of sexual assault in the military. Throughout this process, we have looked to the experts to help us find the right solutions, and we have worked with the Department of Defense to put in place policies that address both prevention and support for victims of this devastating crime. This has not been an easy task, but our commitment to protecting the health and welfare of our service members is unwavering. “To that end, it is my understanding that the purpose of today’s hearing is to focus on the support provided by the military to victims of sexual assault and to assess whether DOD’s programs meet the needs of the victims or not. “I sincerely appreciate the willingness of Ms. Watterson, who was a victim of sexual assault, to testify today. Although your experience took place prior to DOD’s new, comprehensive policy, I hope you can give us your assessment of whether the current policies and programs would have helped you and where there may still be gaps. “I continue to hear in media reports and from various individual assertions that the system isn’t working well enough. I look forward to the views of the members of the second panel. How do you measure the program’s success? Where does the system fall short? Have you identified areas that need improvement? How can we help? “I hope that our discussions today will be informative and productive. My purpose today is to continue the dialog towards improving the support, services and care available for military victims of sexual assault. With that, I would like to welcome our witnesses and thank them for participating in the hearing today. I look forward to your testimony.” ###
01.27.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 27, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after Secretary of Defense Robert Gates spoke at a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee. “I appreciate Secretary Gates’ comments before the House Armed Services Committee today, and I am grateful that he has agreed to continue serving in President Obama’s administration. “It is clear from the Secretary’s remarks that he understands that the best way to protect American families here at home is by defeating the terrorists overseas. We have seen the heroic success of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines in Iraq under the professional leadership of General David Petraeus and now General Ray Odierno. We also understand that there is tremendous work ahead for our military and diplomatic corps to secure the gains we have made. “Secretary Gates has made it clear that our efforts in Afghanistan require greater involvement by American military as well as a stronger contribution by our NATO allies. Al Qaeda and Taliban terrorists must not be able to seek or secure a safe haven along the Afghan-Pakistan border, and I look forward to continuing to work with Secretary Gates and President Obama to ensure our military have the tools and resources they need. “Recently, President Obama signed an Executive Order to close the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay within a year. This decision has significant consequences for our nation’s security. I encourage Secretary Gates to work with Congress on this important issue. The American people have legitimate concerns about the prospect of bringing terrorists suspects onto American soil, and there are already documented cases of terrorist being released and returning to the battlefield.” ###
01.26.2009	*To View Congressman Wilson’s Floor Speech Click Here* FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 26, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. “Mr. Speaker, I have significant concerns about the spending bill before us this week. “How will billions spent on school snack programs and repairs to the Smithsonian Institution stimulate the economy? How will $3 billion being spent for a prevention and wellness fund stimulate the economy? It is clear that this spending package has become a one stop shop for every item on a spending agenda – a massive, unprecedented spending bill aimed to bypass the normal appropriations process and subsidize a broad range of existing and new government programs. “We must do better, and together we can do better to create jobs. “A targeted stimulus package of tax relief and assistance for small businesses would fuel this nation’s entrepreneurial spirit and help private industry and individuals create jobs. Our focus should be on growing the American economy and not on growing our already massive government. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
01.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 22, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Executive Order calling for the closure of the Guantanamo Bay terrorist detention facility. Congressman Wilson is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The new Administration has yet to provide adequate answers to important questions about the potential national security ramifications of this decision,” said Rep. Wilson. “The American people deserve to know where the Administration plans to house the terrorists currently being held at Guantanamo Bay, what rights they intend to afford them, and what impact it will have on the safety of American families.” “I have visited Guantanamo twice, and I know firsthand how our dedicated military has been effective uncovering terrorist cells worldwide, revealing terrorists financing and recruiting. These efforts against terrorism have saved many innocent lives. There are a number of legal and national security issues that must be addressed before we begin introducing terrorists into our home communities.” ###
01.14.2009	Program Should Fund Low-Income Children First FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 14, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009. This legislation expands the program to cover adults, higher-income families, and potentially illegal aliens. Congressman Wilson opposed H.R. 2 calling on his colleagues on the other side of the aisle to support legislation that will put low-income children first. “The State Children’s Health Insurance Program needs to be reauthorized and funded so that it can continue to serve children who cannot afford private insurance. I have consistently been in favor of fully funding SCHIP to meet the needs of low-income children. I supported legislation in previous Congresses and a Republican alternative today that would have ensured SCHIP focused on low-income children first. Unfortunately, House Democrats hastily brought a bill to the floor that raises taxes, expands SCHIP coverage to adults and higher-income families, and makes it easier for illegal aliens to fraudulently apply for coverage. “Democrats have chosen to pay for their expansion of the SCHIP program, by raising the federal tax on cigarettes. This is a tax increase that unfairly targets lower-income individuals. Moreover, it requires an increase in the number of smokers to raise adequate revenue. This is poor health care policy and terrible fiscal policy. How do the Democrats plan to pay for an ever more expensive program while relying on a decreasing funding source? The math does not add up. “What is most disappointing, however, is the blatant budgetary gimmick in this bill which allows for a massive funding cut to occur to the program in 2014. It makes the accounting sheets look good today, but it will pull the rug out from underneath millions of children that this expansion will enroll – many of whom are already covered by private insurance. Again, that is poor health care policy and terrible fiscal policy." ###
01.06.2009	Bills Would Expand Resources, Benefits, and Encourage Service FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 6, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after introducing legislation to provide early retirement benefits for National Guard and Reserve troops, strengthen state defense forces, and expand funding for the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program. “It is critical that we support our troops, strengthen our state and national defense capabilities, and encourage today’s youth to be tomorrow’s leaders,” said Rep. Wilson. “I am grateful to be introducing legislation in the new Congress to continue our support for the men and women who wear our nation’s uniform and prepare our nation to meet the challenges of the 21st Century.” “Our National Guard and Reserve troops have distinguished themselves on the front lines of the War on Terror since September 11th, 2001. Having assumed a more active duty role, Guard and Reserve members deserve to have retirement benefits that reflect the new sacrifices they have made. “While our National Guard forces take on an expanded role in protecting American families overseas, our state defense forces must be properly trained and equipped to provide needed security and disaster assistance to our local communities. This is part of a comprehensive effort to better serve and protect American families. “The National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program has a proven track record of teaching leadership, citizenship, and life-skills to youth in our communities. Investing in the mentoring and education of our children will provide a strong foundation for the future success of our nation.” Congressman Wilson Introduced the following legislation: National Guardsmen and Reservists Parity for Patriots Act – amends the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 to repair the gap in eligibility for National Guard and Reserve members to receive credit towards early retirement by including any active duty service since September 11th, 2001. Current eligibility only applies to service following the enactment of the 2008 NDAA. State Defense Force Improvement Act – recognizes and encourages state defense forces and authorizes state defense forces to use DOD property and equipment if available. Amending the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program – increases the per capita cost per student from $14,000 to $16,000 and eliminates the cost share requirement. ###
01.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 7, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after introducing legislation to make permanent the current $10,000 tax credit for adoptive families and legislation to protect against abuse of government credit cards. “Many families are eager to adopt a child, but the costs associated with the process can be a major deterrent. By providing tax relief to adoptive families, we can encourage parents to consider adoption and help find homes for the thousands of foster children in the United States. Making adoption more affordable is just one way we can help American families already facing rising health care and education costs. “American taxpayers entrust their government with trillions of their hard earned dollars. They have every right to expect government to be good stewards of their money. In light of recent audits that have uncovered millions in unauthorized expenditures on government credit cards, Congress has the obligation to step forward and provide agencies with the tools to stop this abuse. It is a commonsense step towards reforming how government does businesses.” Background on Legislation: Adoption Tax Relief Guarantee Act (H.R. 213) Makes permanent the $10,000 tax credit signed into law in 2001. Currently, the tax credit will return to its original level of $5,000 in 2010. According to a 2005 adoption cost survey by Adoptive Families, the average cost of adoption was between $20,000 and $25,000. Government Credit Card Abuse Prevention Act (H.R. 216) Provides credit checks for travel card holders and issues restricted cards for individuals with poor credit. Maintains records of cardholders and implements periodic personnel reviews. Outlines penalties for fraudulent use of travel and purchase cards. ###
01.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 2, 2009 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today unveiled his legislative agenda for 2009. Wilson held three press conferences throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional District to announce his priorities for the 111th Congress. “With a new year, a new Congress, and a new administration in the White House, the American people are expecting the leadership in Washington to step forward, work together, and address the many challenges facing our nation. “While our primary focus must always remain on ensuring a strong national defense both at home and abroad, recent job losses and an economic decline demand we take greater action to restore confidence and growth to the American economy. This is not a case where our focus should be solely on growing the public sector through more government spending and greater government bureaucracy. We need initiatives that will promote growth in our private sector. That means cutting capital gains and corporate taxes to invite business and investment, providing retraining assistance to individuals who have lost their job, and creating an environment where small businesses can thrive. “With an economy and a workforce as dynamic as ours, Americans should be confident that we can emerge from this recession stronger. I am enthusiastic about the opportunity to continue serving the people of the Second Congressional District, and I look forward to joining with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get to work on the challenges before us.” Wilson’s Agenda for 2009: Grow the Economy and Create Jobs – cut capital gains and corporate taxes; retraining workforce assistance; bonus depreciation; home purchase tax credit National Security – support our troops; defeat terrorism overseas; honor our veterans; strengthen our borders Remain Committed to Energy Independence – promote an all-of the-above energy plan: all sources of alternative and renewable fuels, American natural resources, and conservation Reform Health Care – provide access to shop for health insurance across state lines and the establishment of association health plans; promote health IT and health savings accounts; pass the Living Organ Donor Tax Credit Act ###
12.30.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 30, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement in response to the ongoing situation in Gaza. "This troubling situation in Gaza is yet another reminder of the dangerous circumstances the people of Israel face while Hamas continues to kill innocent civilians through indiscriminate rocket attacks. Israel has not only the right but the obligation to protect its citizenry, and I hope the international community will recognize and support their acts of self-defense." ###
12.10.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 10, 2008Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted to pass a $14 billion bailout package for American automakers. "While I am sympathetic to the situation facing the Big 3 automakers, I do not believe that the circumstances warrant such a massive taxpayer funded bailout - particularly when there are other existing avenues of relief and restructuring they have yet to pursue. It is unacceptable and unrealistic to ask the American taxpayer to trust that billions in bailout relief for these specific companies will do anything but cement a dangerous and expensive precedent for future big government spending and control of industry. "It is important to note that what we debated this evening was not whether or not the economy will stop functioning or whether or not markets would freeze, stalling the economy. We are facing a situation where three companies may be forced to file for bankruptcy - a difficult decision but one that is far from the situation we faced in October. "Should they need it, the bankruptcy process that exists today would allow the Big 3 automakers to restructure their business model, reexamine labor agreements that have placed them at a competitive disadvantage, and ultimately reemerge as stronger, more agile, and more competitive companies. It is a process other large companies and industries - including several airlines - have pursued to the benefit of employers and employees. To simply throw GM, Ford, and Chrysler a lifeline without adequate protection for taxpayers would be unwise. "I respect and admire the legacy of the American auto industry, and I am proud to represent American auto dealerships and parts manufacturers in South Carolina. I hope to see these companies once again prosper and build the future fleets of automobiles for the world." ###
12.09.2008	Latest Number of National Board Certified Teachers in the Second District is Highest in Nation FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 9, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, issued the following statement today after the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards announced that 176 teachers from the Second Congressional District of South Carolina recently earned National Board Certification. This is the highest number of newly certified teachers in any congressional district in the country. "We should be extremely proud and grateful to have such well-qualified, professional teachers working to educate the children of the Second Congressional District," said Rep. Wilson. "Families understand that a strong education is the foundation for the future success of their children. So, we must continue to bring parents, teachers, and school administrators together in a common pursuit of high quality, accessible, and affordable education that respects the unique needs and challenges of our local schools." "The 176 teachers who recently received their National Board Certification should be commended for their dedication to achieving such a high standard of excellence. Their leadership will be an invaluable part of building a successful future for South Carolina schools." Rep. Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-CA), the senior Republican on the House Education and Labor Committee, also extended his congratulations to the recently certified teachers. "I want to congratulate the 176 teachers from South Carolina's 2nd Congressional District who have just earned their National Board Certification, and thank them for their commitment to excellence in the classroom. Rep. Joe Wilson is a champion for teachers, supporting innovative strategies to improve teacher training and reward success in the classroom. His leadership is clearly reflected in the community's commitment to teacher quality, and this accomplishment sets an example for the rest of the nation." ###
12.05.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 5, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after Iraq's presidency council ratified the Strategic Framework Agreement and Status of Forces Agreement between the United States and Iraq. "It is clear that the surge of American forces coupled with the rejection of Al Qaeda by the Iraqi people have led to a dramatic reduction in violence across Iraq. As a return on this success, members of the Iraqi and American military as well as our diplomatic corps have crafted a set of agreements that protect the right of Iraq to thrive as a sovereign nation while establishing a framework for a respectful and healthy cooperation between our two nations. "I am grateful for the sacrifice of our brave soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. Their dedication has ensured that these agreements reflect the strategic needs of the US and Iraq and not the desires of terrorists and extremists who continue to try and create chaos and instability throughout the region." ###
11.21.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 21, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today sent a letter to Chairman Bob Filner and Ranking Member Steve Buyer of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee requesting a hearing on the apparent mishandling and destruction of documents at certain regional offices of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Wilson noted that the Veterans' Affairs Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina is under investigation by the VA for the mishandling and shredding of 95 documents. "This is clearly an unacceptable situation, and it damages the trust our nation's veterans should have in their local VA offices. Congress has an obligation to thoroughly investigate what occurred and to make any recommendations that will ensure our veterans' personal records are protected. Our veterans deserve better." In his letter to Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer, Congressman Wilson wrote, "as a veteran I find myself, joining with thousands of other veterans that are serviced by this regional office and across the United States, outraged. I have received numerous phone calls and letters from constituents in my district asking what can be done to ensure that this never happens again." Congressman Wilson's letter to Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer is available here.
11.19.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 19, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in response to reports that the oversight mechanisms outlined in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act had yet to be fully implemented. Recently, he co-sponsored legislation that would not allow the Department of Treasury to spend the remaining $350 billion authorized under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act without an explicit approval from Congress. "The American people were rightfully skeptical about the federal government authorizing billions in taxpayer dollars to help unfreeze credit in our financial markets. Therefore, it was vital that when Congress acted that we ensured taxpayers were protected through transparency and accountability. "The oversight mandated in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act is vital to protecting taxpayers and the integrity of our system. It is unacceptable for this program to be implemented without the checks and balances that were written into the law. The law must be followed, and the economic stabilization program must be properly assessed before future funding is authorized. American taxpayers deserve nothing less." ###
11.11.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 11, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on Veterans Day. "Our nation is free and prosperous because millions of Americans have fought to protect and defend our liberties and our lives. On this day, we honor those who have worn the uniform and served this nation at home and abroad. They have fought bravely and selflessly, and far too many have paid the ultimate sacrifice to help preserve peace and humanity around the world. It is in acknowledgement and gratitude for their dedication and duty that we stand with our American veterans today and everyday. "I am grateful to represent so many men and women currently serving, veterans, and their families in South Carolina. We owe them a debt of gratitude we can never fully repay, but we must always strive to ensure they have the highest quality care and services available and our everlasting respect." ###
10.26.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 26, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after attending a dedication ceremony for the new Fort Jackson National Cemetery. "Our national cemeteries are a fitting way to consecrate and honor the courage and sacrifice of those who have served in our military, fought to defend our liberty, and, for far too many, sacrificed their own lives so that we might live in freedom. Today's dedication comes after several years of planning and hard work by individuals at the Department of Veterans Affairs and Fort Jackson, veterans in our community, and countless other friends and advocates of our nation's military. "The establishment of this cemetery fulfills the vision of former Armed Services Committee Chairman Floyd Spence to have a national cemetery in our community to serve our veterans. I am honored to have the opportunity to participate in seeing that dream become a reality and to dedicate this national shrine in appreciation of our veterans who have made possible the freedoms we enjoy." ###
10.08.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 8, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today in support of Congressional hearings into corruption and bad practices by Wall Street corporate executives. Additionally, Congressman Wilson supports the call by House Republicans on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to hold hearings into the loosened lending practices at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that began in the mid 1990s. "I am disappointed at the greed exhibited by executives on Wall Street. Their actions are having very real and negative effects on the jobs and retirements of hardworking Americans. Taxpayers in South Carolina are justifiably angered by the millions of dollars some executives received even after their companies had failed. "Reports indicate that Federal law enforcement officials are already examining potential fraud by individuals in the financial services industry. I am grateful for their efforts. But, Congress has its own role to play in exposing the misdeeds and mishandling by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other fraudulent mortgage practices. I am determined to work with my colleagues to fix the problem and hold individuals accountable for their actions. "Congress needs to do more to investigate how we got into this crisis, who led us here willfully or not, and how we fix the underlying causes of this financial breakdown. South Carolinians deserve answers and accountability." ###
10.03.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 3, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed an economic rescue package aimed to protect American taxpayers from the fall-out of the current economic crisis. "From the beginning, Congress was delivered a flawed proposal. The initial Paulson plan lacked sufficient transparency, accountability, and protections for taxpayers. I was proud to stand with many of my colleagues as we worked to improve this legislation and keep our word to the citizens we represent. They sent us here to make these tough decisions. "We fought for and won the inclusion of alternative plans, like an insurance guarantee program that would put no taxpayer dollars at risk and force Wall Street to pay to rebuild itself. We fought for and won strong oversight and transparency for the Treasury Department. We stood up against the golden parachutes and giveaways to corporate executives who had made bad decisions. We made improvements that included an increase in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation cap, so businesses would trust that their money was safe in our banks. This improvement means banks will have more capital to continue lending to the businesses and families that create jobs and grow our economy. "Make no mistake, this legislation does not provide all of the reforms that are necessary to cease the bad lending and irresponsible borrowing practices that brought our economy to this fragile point. The hard work Congress must do to fix the root causes of our economic crisis is more important than what we have done here today. There is much more that demands our attention and the American people will not and should not accept anything less." The economic rescue package includes many provisions aimed to protect taxpayers while ensuring credit and confidence is restored to our markets. These include: Increase in the FDIC insurance cap from $100,000 to $250,000 Alternative insurance program so Wall Street pays to rebuild its own credit Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief that will protect 25 million middle class families from paying higher taxes No golden parachutes for Wall Street Executives An evaluation of accounting rules to ensure we accurately value the debts and assets of companies ###
09.29.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 29, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 failed to pass the House of Representatives. "The cost of doing nothing during this economic crisis threatens the retirements and jobs of the people of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. This is not about Wall Street. It is about Main Street. It's the community banks that provide loans to the small businesses of this nation or student loans to families struggling to afford a quality education for their children. It's those small businesses that create jobs - the very foundation of commerce that drives our economy. A systemic failure of this size in our complex economy would harm not just the market but the individuals who I have the privilege of representing. It has made the option of doing nothing unacceptable. "I adamantly opposed the proposal originally sought by Secretary Paulson. It lacked transparency, accountability, and protections for taxpayers. That is why I stood in strong support for free market alternatives proposed by House conservatives including a far better alternative that failed to pass this morning. The legislation we considered on the floor this afternoon had tougher oversight and an alternative insurance plan to make Wall Street fix its own problems. It would have made sure that the first in line to recoup losses would be the American taxpayers who by no fault of their own were exposed to this crisis by the mishandling of others. This was not the best option available, and there are no perfect options. This was a compromise at a time when we need solutions. "I voted to remain in session until a solution is achieved, and I urge that Congress be reconvened as soon as possible to face these issues now." ###
09.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 16, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this evening after House Democrats passed H.R. 6899, legislation that would restrict off-shore oil drilling, prohibit revenue sharing for coastal states, and increase electricity bills for South Carolina families. "Today's vote by House Democrats was about political cover, not moving this nation forward. Their energy bill is a slap in the face to coastal communities like those in South Carolina which would be prohibited from sharing in revenues from off-shore production. House Democrats voted to permanently block energy exploration in large parts of the outer continental shelf. They turned their backs on new refinery production. And, they turned their backs on South Carolina families who would see their electricity bills go up under a renewable energy mandate." Congressman Wilson voted in favor of a bi-partisan alternative, the "National Conservation, Environment, and Energy Independence Act" (H.R. 6709), that provides for energy exploration onshore and offshore, supports research and development of alternative energy resources, provides for revenue sharing, and supports incentives for conservation. "For months, House Republicans have been asking Democrats to work with us across Party lines to get the job done for American families. Tonight, we had the opportunity to do just that with the bi-partisan National Conservation, Environment, and Energy Independence Act. Unfortunately, the House Democrat leadership chose to put politics above a solution to our energy crisis. They chose to support a bill that is insufficient at best and outright damaging were it ever to become law." ###
09.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 17, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Calls on House Democrats to Support Relief for American Families and Schools Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after House Republicans, led by Republican Leader John Boehner (OH-08) and Ranking Member of the Education and Labor Committee Republican Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (CA-25) released the results of a survey that highlights the effects of high energy prices on our nation's schools. "The results of this survey are troubling, and they dramatically highlight how high energy prices are hurting American families and our local schools. That is why House Republicans have been calling on our Democrat colleagues to get to work on an all-of-the-above energy strategy. In light of the information and testimonials included in this report, it is all the more disappointing that House Democrats have refused to support a sensible and serious all-of-the-above energy bill. "Last month, I had the privilege of meeting with superintendents of Lexington County schools in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina, and they told me definitively that high energy prices meant they were going to cut back on school activities including fieldtrips, band trips, and sporting events. They talked about how high energy prices would make it more difficult to recruit and retain special needs teachers. These are highly qualified educators who may not live in the same communities they serve and have to commute many miles to work in schools who need their help. The high price of fuel meant Lexington County schools would see anywhere between $15,000 and $100,000 additional yearly expenses. "Last night, we had the opportunity to address these issues and pass an all-of-the-above energy bill that would invest in off-shore and on-shore energy exploration right here at home, renewable energy sources, and conservation. Our bipartisan National Conservation, Environment, and Energy Independence Act (H.R. 6709) meets all of these goals, includes revenue sharing for coastal states, and does not raise electricity bills for Americans through a mandated renewable energy standard. Unfortunately, House Democrats chose to vote for political cover in the form of a hoax energy bill that has no chance of becoming law." A copy of the full report, "Strapped: Students & Schools Pay the Price for Democrats" Failed Energy Policies' can be found here. ###
09.12.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 12, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives about high energy prices. While House Democrats chose to adjourn yesterday for the week, turn off the lights, the microphones, and the cameras all having failed to pass any energy legislation, House Republicans believe Congress should get to work. "The American people are sick and tired of Washington's failure to get to work on the tough issues. My House Republican colleagues and I have made it clear that we are willing to stay and pass an all-of-the-above energy plan. We have crafted a bill that invests in new American energy exploration, alternative and renewable fuel sources, and incentives for conservation. The American people overwhelming support such an approach because they understand that to address this challenge we need all options on the table." ###
09.11.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 11, 2008CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson: ???We must never forget their sacrifice and never fail to honor it today and everyday.??? ??? Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today on the seventh anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. ???Today, we remember the three thousand Americans murdered seven years ago. And while we pause and reflect, we are reminded of the incredible heroism of that day - the selfless commitment of so many helping their neighbor, coworker, or a complete stranger. We have seen that character, courage, and commitment every day since in those who have stood up to protect our nation at home and abroad. ???To our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines and all our military families, we owe you a debt of gratitude we can never fully repay. To our first responders and intelligence officials, your service reminds us that there are many roles to play in protecting American families. ???I am grateful to know that so many Americans are willing to stand on the front lines in defense of liberty. We must never forget their sacrifice and never fail to honor it today and everyday.??? ###
08.25.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 25, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after returning to Washington to speak directly to American families who have gathered on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the consequences of high energy prices. Congressman Wilson shared with those present the issues and concerns he heard during his recent five day, ten county tour of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina where he learned firsthand the effects of rising energy prices as well as the innovative research and development of renewable, cleaner energy resources occurring in our local communities. "American families, schools, and small businesses are struggling under a weakened economy and high energy prices," said Congressman Wilson. "It is unconscionable that House Democrats remain on vacation while there are substantial and vital steps we can take to address this energy crisis. I was privileged to stand with my colleagues today in support of a vote on comprehensive energy legislation that can move this nation forward and relieve the pain at the pump for American families." ###
08.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 15, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after returning to the floor of the House of Representatives to speak on behalf of the constituents of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. "The Speaker of the House and her Democrat leadership need to get off the beach and back in their offices so we can tap into American energy resources, right here at home," said Rep. Wilson. "I and many of my colleagues have been very clear that all we want is a vote. Hold a vote on the all-of-the-above bill to address high energy prices and let the voices of the American people be heard." "There is so much we have in common when it comes to alternative energy resources and conservation incentives. But the American people, House Republicans, and a growing number of Democrats believe we should be using our own oil and natural gas resources first rather than spend $700 billion to buy them from overseas." ###
08.11.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 15, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) **MEDIA ADVISORY** Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) on Monday, August 18, will embark on his seventh annual 5-day district bus tour. Congressman Wilson and his staff will travel throughout South Carolina's Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his efforts in Congress. Please note some changes have been made to the schedule. Monday, August 18 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Lizard's Thicket - 818 Elmwood Avenue, Columbia 8:30 a.m. Tour of Dreher High School - 3319 Millwood Avenue, Columbia 9:45 a.m.Tour of the University of South Carolina - USC Campus, Columbia 11:45 a.m. Meeting with Lexington County School District Administrators - Transportation Facility for Lexington District Two 1:00 p.m. Visit to Columbia Rotary Club - 1125 Rosewood Drive, Columbia 2:45 p.m. Tour of Lexington Extended Care - 815 Old Cherokee Road, Lexington 4:00 p.m. Visit to Irmo Chamber of Commerce - 1248 Lake Murray Drive, Irmo Tuesday, August 19 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Sunset Grill - 1213 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia 8:30 a.m. Tour of Martin Marietta Cayce Quarry - 2125 State Street, Cayce 9:30 a.m. Visit to Credit Union League - 7440 Broad River Road, Columbia 10:45 a.m. Visit to Chapin Chamber and General Information Services - 917 Chapin Road, Chapin 12:15 p.m. Lunch at Shealy's BBQ - 340 E. Columbia Avenue, Batesburg-Leesville 1:45 p.m. Visit to Lexington Town Hall - 111 Maiden Lane, Lexington 4:30 p.m. Visit to Fort Jackson National Cemetery - Columbia Wednesday, August 20 8:30 a.m. Tour of Prysmian - 700 Industrial Drive, Lexington 9:45 a.m. Visit to Wagener Town Hall - 111 Railroad Avenue, Wagener 11:15 a.m. Tour of Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC - Hydrogen Center at the Savannah River Site, Aiken (Closed to Media) 1:00 p.m. Lunch at Winton Inn - 8273 Marlboro Avenue, Barnwell 2:15 p.m. Tour of Allendale County Hospital - Hwy 278 West, Fairfax 4:00 p.m. Tour of ACO Distribution - (Closed to Media) Thursday, August 21 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Blackstone's Cafe - 205 Scott's Street, Beaufort 8:30 a.m. Visit to Beaufort Regional Chamber of Commerce - 1106 Carteret Street, Beaufort 10:00 a.m. Visit to Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island - (Closed to Media) 12:00 p.m. Meeting with Jasper County Port Authority - 3171 Independence Boulevard, Hardeeville 1:45 p.m. Tour of Hampton Regional Medical Center - 595 West Carolina Avenue, Hampton 3:30 p.m. Tour of Vetronix Research - 28 Palmetto Business Park, Hilton Head Friday, August 22 8:00 a.m. Breakfast with Providence Hospital NE - 120 Gateway Corporate Boulevard, Columbia 8:55 a.m. Tour of South University - 9 Science Court, Columbia 9:45 a.m. Visit to Palmetto GBA - 17 Technology Circle, Columbia 11:00 a.m. Tour of Computer Sciences Corporation - 10301 Wilson Boulevard, Blythewood 12:15 p.m. Lunch at Doc's Barbeque and Southern Buffet - 1601 Shop Road, Columbia 1:15 p.m. Tour of Verizon Call Center - Richland Mall, Columbia 2:30 p.m. Tour of Midlands Technical College - 316 South Beltline Boulevard, Columbia 7:00 p.m. The Lexington Sportsarama Games - Airport High School Stadium, West Columbia * Some stops are subject to last-minute scheduling changes. Should a cancellation or time adjustment occur, invited media will be notified. ###
08.01.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 1, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Choose Five Week Vacation Over Energy Relief Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after House Democrats voted to adjourn for a five-week vacation. Congressman Wilson has joined with his fellow Republicans and an overwhelming majority of the American people who support an all-of-the-above, comprehensive energy plan in calling on House Democrats to let their voices be heard. "Today, House Democrats eagerly began their five week vacation. It is deeply troubling to me that the Democrat leadership sees no problem in taking their vacation when so many families in South Carolina cannot afford one because of high gas prices. "House Republicans have introduced legislation, which I proudly cosponsored, that provides for increased domestic exploration, alternative energy innovation, and conservation - a comprehensive strategy that pulls together this nation's immense natural resources and our rapidly advancing technology to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and build a more prosperous country. "Let's have a vote on the Republican comprehensive energy package. Let's show American families that their interests are important enough for this Congress to stay here and lower gas prices." ###
08.01.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 1, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after supporting passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for FY 2009. "Our nation's veterans are the finest America has to offer," said Rep. Wilson. "They have earned not only our recognition and thanks but our support as well. This legislation will help ensure our veterans have access to the highest quality care. I am grateful for the sacrifice of so many military families in South Carolina and around the country. Our freedoms and our way of life would not be possible were it not for the incredible courage and dedication of our veterans." ###
07.30.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 30, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after House Democrats voted 213-212 in favor of beginning their five week vacation after failing to bring to a vote legislation that will lower gas prices and break our dependence on foreign oil. Not one House Republican supported the motion to adjourn. "It is astonishing to think that this Democrat Congress believes it is entitled to a five-week vacation having denied a vote on comprehensive energy legislation while millions of American families struggle with rising energy prices," said Rep. Wilson. "The American people deserve better. They deserve an up or down vote on legislation that will create more American-made energy, invest in renewable resources, and promote conservation. They deserve to have their voices heard." "Real leadership means you address the issues that demand immediate attention not cut-and-run from responsibility. Having refused to allow votes on bipartisan, comprehensive energy legislation and having voted to go home rather than do their job, this Democrat Congress has failed the American people." ###
07.25.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 25, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement responding to today's Washington Post editorial questioning Speaker Nancy Pelosi's refusal to allow a Floor vote to drill for American energy. House Democrats continue to stand in the way of allowing a vote on a comprehensive, all-of-the-above plan to produce more American-made energy for American families. "America is a country rich in energy resources and technology," said Rep. Wilson. "We are at an exciting moment in our history where the technology needed to use our natural resources in an environmentally sound way has arrived. The same innovation that is driving the development of alternative energy resources and helping our nation become more efficient is also revolutionizing how we can extract oil and natural gas from the ground." "We should be investing in American energy and encouraging all of these efforts. If we use American resources and our talents to better ourselves and help America prosper, we will have created a stronger nation for our children. I call on Speaker Pelosi to bring comprehensive energy legislation to the floor immediately and lift the ban on off-shore drilling. The American people deserve this opportunity to have their voices heard." The Washington Post's editorial outlined how Speaker Pelosi has refused to even hold a vote on allowing American energy exploration. Here is the editorial in its entirety: The Washington Post No Drilling, No Vote EDITORIAL: Friday, July 25, 2008 WHY NOT have a vote on offshore drilling? There's a serious debate to be had over whether Congress should lift the ban on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf that has been in place since 1981. Unfortunately, you won't be hearing it in the House of Representatives -- certainly, you won't find lawmakers voting on it -- anytime soon. Instead of dealing with the issue on the merits, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), a staunch opponent of offshore drilling, has simply decreed that she will not allow a drilling vote to take place on the House floor. Why not? "What the president would like to do is to have validation for his failed policy," she said yesterday when asked that very question. "What we're saying is, 'Exhaust other remedies, Mr. President.' . . . It is the economic life of America's families, and to suggest that drilling offshore is going to make a difference to them paycheck to paycheck now is a frivolous contention. The president has even admitted that. So what we're saying is, 'What can we do that is constructive?'" If there is an explanation buried in there about why that makes offshore drilling off-limits for a vote, we missed it. Ms. Pelosi is correct that drilling is no panacea for the nation's energy woes. The short-term effect of lifting the moratorium, if there were any, would be minimal. That doesn't mean the country shouldn't consider expanded drilling as one of many alternatives. There are legitimate concerns about the environmental impact of such drilling -- environmental concerns that, we would note, exist in other regions whose oil Americans are perfectly happy to consume. But have technological improvements made such drilling less risky? Why not have that debate? When they took the majority, House Democrats proclaimed that "bills should generally come to the floor under a procedure that allows open, full and fair debate consisting of a full amendment process that grants the Minority the right to offer its alternatives." Why not on drilling? Meanwhile, the dispute has snarled progress on spending bills for fear of having drilling amendments attached. Citing "the uncertainty in how the oil and gas drilling issue is currently playing out on the Senate floor," Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) called off committee consideration of spending bills on which Republicans were threatening to offer drilling amendments. The result threatens to be the first time since at least 1950 that lawmakers will go home for the August recess without either chamber having passed a single appropriations bill. If drilling opponents really have the better of this argument, why are they so worried about letting it come to a vote? NOTE: Access the article online by clicking here. ###
07.10.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 10, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives, under the Democrat majority leadership, adjourned for another week having failed to take up commonsense legislation to lower the price of gasoline. "Why, when over 70 percent of the American people are demanding we explore for more American oil instead of sending billions of American dollars overseas to buy foreign oil, does the Democrat leadership in the House refuse to act? Why did the House of Representatives adjourn today without doing one thing this week to address rising energy prices? These are important questions, and the American people deserve answers. "With gas prices at a national average of over four dollars per gallon, the American people are feeling the pinch in their family budgets, and they expect their government to have a plan. Right now, only House Republicans are offering a comprehensive strategy to put this nation back on a solid energy foundation. It is an all-of-the-above strategy of exploration, innovation, and conservation. We want to first and foremost end our dependence on foreign oil. We want to invest in alternative energy, and we want to promote conservation. "The only thing standing between moving forward with increasing American energy and the Republican strategy to invest in energy exploration and alternative production is the House Democrat leadership. All we have heard from the other side of the aisle is who should be blamed for high gas prices - no solutions just excuses." ###
07.09.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 9, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) *To View a Video of Congressman Wilson's Floor Speech Click Here* Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. "Mr. Speaker, here are a few facts on energy I would like to share: America currently has an estimated 175 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 1.1 trillion barrels of oil that is off-limits to exploration. In ANWR alone, there is an estimated 10.4 billion barrels of oil. Currently, 85 percent of the Lower 48 Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) energy resources remain under the lock and key of the federal government. Only 6 percent of the 700 million acres of federally owned sub-surface mineral estate has been leased for oil and gas exploration. The estimated federal revenue that would be generated by opening up these lands that are currently off-limits to leasing is upwards of $60 trillion. "Americans support exploring for these resources and breaking America's dependence on foreign oil. "The American people are demanding Congress take action. That is why House Republicans will continue to fight for an all-of-the-above energy plan that will produce more American-made energy while investing in alternative fuels and promoting conservation. "In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th." ###
06.26.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 26, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the United States Supreme Court handed down two important decisions regarding the Death Penalty and Second Amendment Rights. Yesterday, in a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court overturned a law in Louisiana that would allow prosecutors to seek the death penalty for the sexual assault of a child under the age of 12. South Carolina has a similar law allowing for capital punishment in cases where a predator has previously been convicted for sexually assaulting a child. State law may now be overturned. "It is extremely disappointing that five members of the Supreme Court have chosen to override the wishes of the American people and in such a case as this," said Rep. Wilson. "The people of South Carolina through their state representatives, voted to allow the death penalty in these heinous cases under appropriate, narrowly targeted legal circumstances. As a former Member of the South Carolina Senate for 17 years, I know that our legislature reflects the beliefs and values of our community. Yesterday five Justices on the Supreme Court wrongly interjected their value system upon us and undermined the state's authority to decide how to prosecute and punish those who harm our children. This decision shows the importance of appointing strict constructionists who will not second guess decisions made by lawmakers elected by the people who hold them accountable for their actions. " Today, in a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that a ban on handguns in Washington, D.C. is unconstitutional. "With today's decision, the Supreme Court has ended over three decades of unconstitutional prejudice against the citizens of Washington, D.C. While Americans around this nation have been able to lawfully exercise their Second Amendment rights, those living in our nation's capital have seen those rights trampled upon. After the DC gun ban was passed, crime escalated. In South Carolina, certain violent crimes decreased upon the passage of a concealed weapons law. Now that the residents of Washington, D.C. have their constitutional rights restored, families can once again protect themselves and their property. This ruling is a strong example of the need to support the appointment of jurists who will standup for the principles of freedom our forefathers enumerated in the Constitution." Congressman Wilson joined several other members of Congress in support of overturning the handgun ban by singing an amicus curiae brief in favor of repeal. ###
06.20.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 20, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House passed a bipartisan fix to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. "While today's vote is long overdue, I welcome the cooperation by House Democrats to join Republicans in providing our intelligence community the resources they need,"said Rep. Wilson. "The political wrangling and delay tactics perpetrated by House Democrats on these vital FISA reforms was a waste of time and a detriment to our intelligence gathering capabilities. The intent of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act is now and always has been to protect American citizens by monitoring threats in foreign countries. This bill will uphold that intent and it will uphold the civil liberties of American citizens." "The compromise passed today by Republicans and Democrats sends a strong message to the American people that Washington can work together for the common good. But just as importantly, it sends a strong message to our enemies that this nation is serious about defeating the threat of terrorism, and we are committed to bringing every lawful tool we have to bear to protect the American people." ###
06.19.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 19, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (202) 689-4825 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after House passage of an emergency troop funding bill for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. "Our military serve this nation with distinction and honor, and they do so with a dedication to principle not politics. It is for these reasons that I am proud that this evening the politics that had stood in the way of our efforts to pass this troop funding bill were finally put aside by House Democrats for the good of the brave soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines and their families who sacrifice so much for this nation. We owe a debt of gratitude to the troops ??? one we can never fully repay but we must always try to honor. By providing our military with the resources to do their job, we have stood up for the millions of brave Americans who fight for our freedoms each and everyday." ###
06.14.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 14, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today on Flag Day which commemorates the adoption of the United States flag on June 14th, 1777. "Flag Day is a wonderful opportunity for the American people to celebrate the great history of the stars and stripes and the freedoms it symbolizes. At this time, we must also remember and honor the millions of brave Americans who wear the uniform that bears our flag and their tremendous sacrifice for this nation. The lives lost in defense of our freedoms by those who carried our flag into battle are a reminder of the high cost of liberty that we must never take for granted. "From the raising of the flag at Iwo Jima to the homes, businesses, and schools that fly the flag all around this nation, it is a symbol to the world of liberty and decency. On this day, we should remember all that our nation stands for and the men and women who have fought to defend it." ###
06.12.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 12, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today as another week in Congress comes to a close and the House Democrat leadership failed to bring an emergency troop funding bill to the Floor for a vote. "House Democrats continue to stand in the way of vital funding for our troops" said Rep. Wilson. "Their inaction is tantamount to a vote against the wellbeing of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. Our military leadership has clearly stated that they need funding immediately to support the success of our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, pay our military, and operate and maintain our military bases. Yet, Congress under the Democrats'control has yet to pass or even consider a clean funding bill. That is unacceptable." In a recent interview with Roll Call newspaper, Admiral Michael Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said "we need [the supplemental appropriations bill] very badly before the Memorial Day recess. We stop paying soldiers on the 15th of June and we have precious little flexibility with respect to that." "The limited flexibility our military leaders had in regards to funding has run its course," said Rep. Wilson. "The Department of Defense has already made requests to shift over $9.7 billion in funding to cover the shortfalls. Yet, Democrats have only authorized roughly $7.3 billion of this immediate request which shows a lack of urgency on their side to get the job done." "The men and women of the United States military ask only that we give them the support and resources to complete their missions. The delay in troop funding perpetrated by the Democrat majority is no way to honor their courage and commitment." ###
06.05.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 5, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) The American Conservative Union (ACU) recently named Representative Joe Wilson (SC-02) to its "Honor Roll" of members in the 110th Congress by scoring 96% on its ratings for 2007. "As a small government conservative, I believe in the value of lower taxes, more efficient government, and a strong national defense. I respect the power and ingenuity of the American people to do what is best for their families and their community. That is why I will continue to fight for a government that supports the American people and gives them the freedom to achieve the American Dream." "The rating Representative Wilson received reflects consistent support for conservative principles across a broad range of issues," said Larry Hart, ACU's Director of Government Relations. "By comparison, the average score for members of the House for 2007 was 43%. Representative Wilson is someone who grassroots conservatives in South Carolina and across the country will continue to look to for leadership." ACU is America's oldest and largest grassroots conservative organization. For 37 years, its annual ratings have been widely regarded as the "gold standard," the definitive conservative assessment of the federal legislative branch. A complete listing of the ACU ratings for this and past congresses can be found at www.acuratings.org. ###
06.04.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 4, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) *Click Here to View Congressman Wilson's Floor Speech * Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following speech today on the floor of the House of Representatives. According to the American Automobile Association, South Carolina's average retail gas price sits at a record high of $3.79/gallon for regular unleaded. The national average is $3.98/gallon. "Madame Speaker, the American people are fed up with rising energy prices. They are fed up that the leadership here in Washington does not seem to have the will to step forward and make some tough decisions so that we can begin to ease the pain at the pump. "I am proud to be working with many of my colleagues in the House of Representatives to try to bring real relief to the American people. In particular, I am proud to be supporting legislation such as the American Energy Independence and Price Reduction Act that would open up a small part of ANWR for energy production and exploration today and use funds obtained through the sale of land leases to invest in alternative energy sources for tomorrow. "These plans would adhere to the strictest environmental requirements in our nation's history. This type of comprehensive approach is direct; it is timely; it is vital to building a stronger strategic energy portfolio. "The American people demand and deserve action. "In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th." ###
05.22.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 22, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) submitted the following statement today during a hearing held by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs entitled "Rising Oil Prices, Declining National Security." "Thank you, Chairman Berman, for holding this hearing on the rising price of oil and its ramifications on our national security. "When we talk about energy independence we are more often than not talking about energy security. Our national security, for better or for worse, is tied to our energy resources. Dependence on oil from unfriendly nations threatens our strategic interests. It burdens our military which has to power a vast array of military equipment using oil. And, rising energy prices put a strain on our vital transportation sector and on American businesses which directly undermines our economic competitiveness in a growing global market place. "This dialogue on the national security ramifications of oil dependency - in particular foreign oil dependency - is further impetus for this Congress to take proactive steps towards investing in alternative energy sources like nuclear energy, promoting conservation, and recognizing the strategic advantage we gain by investing in energy exploration here at home. I welcome that dialogue, and I look forward to the testimony from our witnesses today. "We need a cooperative and strategic plan to lower oil prices and decrease our dependency on foreign oil. I hope today's hearing will focus on realistic immediate and long-term solutions to this important issue. "Again, I wish to thank Chairman Berman and my fellow committee members for this opportunity." ###
05.21.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 21, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement as House Democrats prepare to pass their Fiscal Year 2009 budget conference report - a blueprint for more spending, more taxes, and no reform. "The Democrat budget is just more of the same from this majority - more taxes, more bloated spending, and no attempt to reform or rein in the rising costs of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security," said Rep. Wilson. "This legislation will raise $683 billion in taxes on more than 115 million Americans. Not only is this the largest tax hike in American history, it is the worst possible idea when the economy is in a slowdown. This budget is an attack upon American families today with tax increases and out-of-control spending. And, it is a letdown to the future generations of this country because it fails to take any steps towards reforming the Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security entitlement programs our children and grandchildren will have to face." ###
05.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 15, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2009. "We need to ensure our military has 21st Century technology and resources required to protect the American people. I am grateful that this legislation includes a variety of different programs that will do just that. I hope as we move forward in this process that the concerns I and others may have with the bill are addressed. "In addition to the funds provided for equipment, the 3.9% increase in servicemember pay is an invaluable component of honoring the sacrifices of armed forces. As we work to update our forces, we should continue to close the gap that exists between the military and civilian sector. "Additionally, our Army needs increased funding so that more equipment can be provided to our states' National Guard and Reserve units. Our Guard and Reserve soldiers have taken on an increasingly active role in our nation's defense overseas since September 11th. However, the proposal by some to take from one account and give to another is counterproductive. We would undermine our strategic advantage in one area even while strengthening it in another. That is unnecessary when we could increase our budget to fund the resetting of the Guard and Reserve. "There are additional components of the legislation that fall short. For example, the majority of the committee chose to cut funding for the European Missile Defense program. This is disappointing in light of assurances by NATO and our allies in the region who have supported this program. I hope that this funding will be reconsidered so we can honor our commitments. "Overall, the baseline budget of our national defense should be increased. In a time of war, the military cannot fight, reset, grow, and modernize with a stagnant budget. Our defense spending to date in the Global War on Terrorism is lower as a percentage of our nation's wealth as compared to past conflicts including the Cold War. We need to continue to reform our budget process to reflect the conflict we are in today and fully prepare our military to fight in any conflicts that may arise in the future." ###
05.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 15, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee agreed yesterday afternoon to include language from his bill H.R. 826, the State Defense Force Improvement Act of 2007, as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2009. Congressman Wilson introduced H.R. 826 last year with fellow South Carolinian Rep. John Spratt as an original cosponsor. "As our National Guard troops are fighting overseas, we must ensure that our states still have the resources and manpower to respond to emergencies here at home," said Rep. Wilson. "That is why I am pleased that the NDAA will include much of the language from the State Defense Force Improvement Act that I introduced last year." "This bill clarifies and authorizes a stronger relationship between the Department of Defense and state defense forces. Moreover, the equipment provisions authorized in the bill would allow states to backfill supply depots for local emergencies including hurricanes, tornadoes, and ice storms that have had a major impact on the people of South Carolina. Our state defense forces constitute the most cost-effective deep reserve force that is dedicated entirely to the needs of our state governors." Background: South Carolina currently has a volunteer, unpaid state guard force of 1,100 troops This amendment to the NDAA: Explicitly recognizes and encourages state defense forces Authorizes the Department of Defense to coordinate and provide training if requested by defense forces Authorizes state defense forces to use DOD property and equipment Allows state defense forces to receive surplus DOD equipment Ensures that the DOD is not responsible for any costs associated with the above provisions ###
05.13.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 13, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) *To View Congressman Wilson's Floor Speech Click Here* Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives today. "Mr. Speaker, it has been 86 days since the Protect America Act expired, and the Democrat leadership refuses to bring a permanent extension to a vote. Our intelligence community has stated unequivocally that our ability to track and spy on potential enemies has been degraded. "The Senate passed a fair and commonsense extension to the Protect America Act months ago, and it has received vocal bipartisan support in the House of Representatives. That is why it is particularly disappointing that the Democrat leadership has failed to bring the bill to the floor. They refuse to do so because they know it will pass. For leadership to deny a vote on such an important piece of legislation because they know it will pass is an insult to the majority in this House who want to defeat terrorists overseas. "With each day, our intelligence community is being told to do their job without the tools and resources we can and should provide for them. This is unacceptable to keep American families at risk. "In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th." ###
05.05.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 5, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after cosponsoring H.R. 5944, the Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention, and Readjustment Through Education Act of 2008. H.R. 5944, introduced by GOP Conference Chairman Adam Putnam (FL-12), makes needed improvements to the educational benefits provided to our military veterans. This legislation builds upon the already existing Montgomery GI Bill benefit program to ensure the update is quick and does not impair the program's effectiveness. "Since the men and women of the Greatest Generation, millions of American veterans have been able to afford a college education thanks to the Montgomery GI Bill. Each time our nation asks our bravest and brightest to sacrifice in defense of our freedoms, we have an obligation to ensure that these educational benefits meet the modern-day needs of our military and their families. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation." The Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention and Readjustment through Education Act provides: An immediate increase in education benefits for active duty personnel to $1,500 a month, and to improve retention, those benefits increase to $2,000 a month after 12 or more years of service. A significantly increased benefit for members of the National Guard and Reserves. The opportunity for service members to transfer their education benefits to dependents. After six years, half of the benefit may be transferred, and after 12 years, 100% may be transferred to a spouse or dependent children. Student loan repayments. Allows servicemembers to use up to $6,000 per year of their Montgomery GI Bill education benefits to repay Federal student loans. A matching program to help more veterans graduate debt-free. Up to an additional $3,000 per year could be paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs in return for the school retiring some or all of the servicemember's debt. Access to Montgomery GI Bill benefits for service academy graduates and Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps officers who continue serving. ###
04.18.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 18, 2008Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today regarding H.R. 1395, the Government Credit Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2007. This legislation introduced by Congressman Wilson would help put an end to the fraudulent use of government credit cards. A Senate companion bill, S. 789, introduced by Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA), has recently been cleared by the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee. "The American people entrust their government with trillions in tax dollars to pay for the everyday needs of the federal government. It is unfortunate that there have been more than a few documented cases of government employees misusing federal credit cards for dubious purchases. It is even more disappointing that the government seems to lack any substantial mechanism to combat this misuse and abuse of taxpayer dollars. "My legislation and the companion bill that has gained support in the Senate send a strong message to the American people that we plan to be good stewards of their taxpayers' dollars. Reports that catalog abuse are helpful in defining the problem. But, we need everyday, internal safeguards as well as appropriate penalties so that we can put a stop to misuse of government funds. We need to restore the American people's trust in their government." Reports on the scope of government credit card abuse have highlighted several cases of gross misuse. These included the rather expensive such as an $8,000 63-inch plasma television that was found unused, unwarranted air travel, and thousands of dollars spent on golf and tennis training at resorts. They have also highlighted the ridiculous such as a beer brewing kit. Key Points of the Government Credit Card Abuse Prevention Act: Provides credit checks for travel card holders and issue restricted cards for those with poor or no credit to reduce the potential for misuse; Maintains a record of each cardholder, which would include single transaction limits and total credit limits so agencies can effectively manage their cardholders; Implements periodic personnel reviews to determine if a cardholder has a position that requires such a card; and, Outlines penalties for fraudulent use of travel and purchase cards including termination of employment and prosecution to the fullest extent of the law. ###
04.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 15, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today following a hearing by the House Armed Services Committee on "Building Partnership Capacity and Development of the Interagency Process." Witnesses for the hearing were Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Michael Mullen. "The brave men and women of our Armed Forces have sacrificed so much for the safety and well-being of American families. They have defeated terrorists overseas, so that we would not have to face them here at home. They have liberated millions of people in Iraq and Afghanistan, and are still fighting to ensure those two nations do not become breeding grounds or safe-havens for violent extremists. "In addition to the immense price paid by our military families, the American people have given their tax dollars to help rebuild the nations of Iraq and Afghanistan. These two countries have been wrecked by decades of war and bad economic policies perpetrated by tyrannical governments. While Americans will continue to do their part, it is time that other nations - nations who have much at stake in a peaceful and stable Iraq and Afghanistan - give more of themselves and their treasure. "While other nations have pledged billions for reconstruction in Iraq, the majority of that funding has yet to be provided. Secretary Rice has promised to continue to press this issue with neighboring nations and other allies. I encourage her to be candid with the leadership of these countries. Now that security has greatly improved in Iraq, it is imperative that those who have pledged to do their part, diplomatically and financially, step forward." ###
04.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 15, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today, April 15th - Tax Day. "Today, millions of Americans will reach deep into their pockets to pay Uncle Sam," said Rep. Wilson. "Hard-working Americans are doing their part despite rising prices at the pump, at the store, and at the hospital." "Unfortunately, House Democrats are doing their part to hit the American taxpayer squarely in the wallet. The budget they recently passed includes $683 billion in tax increases on 116 million Americans, including working families and small business owners. It takes more money out of an uncertain economy. "Republicans cut taxes for all Americans. We all but eliminated the federal tax burden for a family of four making less than $40,000 per year. Unfortunately, the Democrat budget repeals these cuts and raises taxes on all Americans. Imposing new tax burdens will only make next year's Tax Day that much harder. "We should be protecting Americans from the tax and spend machine in Washington and not asking them to fork over more money to subsidize billions of dollars in new wasteful government spending." ###
04.09.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 9, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after hearing a report from General David Petraeus, Commanding General for Multi-National Force - Iraq, and Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker on conditions on the ground in Iraq. "Today's testimonies by General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker underlined several important facts: the Surge has been successful; violence in Iraq has declined tremendously; and, political reconciliation is on the rise. Both individuals noted that much is left to be done. I agree that their assessment should be met with cautious optimism but optimism nonetheless. What their report makes very clear is that our strategy is succeeding but that failure by way of a precipitous withdrawal would have terrible consequences for our national security. "Calls by Democrats to either ignore or flat out deny the progress that has been made does no service to this debate. It simply rehashes old talking points that do not reflect the reality on the ground and stands in the way of a constructive debate over how we move forward. We should have a strong debate, but it should be factual, not ideological and certainly not political in nature. "Ambassador Crocker, General Petraeus, and the men and women of our diplomatic corps and armed forces deserve nothing less than our heartfelt thanks for the tremendous work they do on behalf of American families and the cause of freedom. Patriotic individuals have chosen to stand up and defeat our enemies overseas so we do not face them here at home. I am grateful for their service." ###
03.31.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 31, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after visiting the University of South Carolina and Fort Jackson. Congressman Wilson was visiting as part of a congressional delegation which met with soldiers and drill instructors at the Recruiting and Retention School and basic training units at Fort Jackson as well as the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program at the University of South Carolina. "Each time I have the privilege to meet our soldiers, I am always impressed and grateful for the professionalism of our troops and their leadership. The tremendous work they are doing on behalf of American families shows how important it is that we continue to support those efforts. "The standard of training at Fort Jackson is second to none. The level of instruction and hands-on experience these recruits are required to go through is wide ranging and will prepare them for the tough jobs for which they have so bravely volunteered. At the University of South Carolina, the ROTC program continues to be a shining example of the positive impact this type of leadership training can have on young men and women." ###
03.19.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 19, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement on the fifth anniversary of the Iraq War. "It has been five years since American and coalition forces brought down the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein - a man whose regime had murdered thousands of his own countrymen, threatened nations in the Middle East, and supported terrorist activities both in the region and around the world. The struggle to quell sectarian violence and defeat Al Qaeda in Iraq has been fraught with many roadblocks, but the courage and professionalism of our troops has continued to prevail. "Since coalition forces ended Saddam's stranglehold on their nation, Iraqis have held elections, drafted and ratified a constitution, and today are beginning to make real progress toward the political reconciliation needed to help this young democracy overcome the recent violence and decades of oppression. "Now is the time to express our gratitude to the brave men and women who defend our liberties and assure our troops, the American people, and our allies around the world that America is dedicated to a winning strategy. That is why I have recently introduced H.Con.Res. 315, a resolution that states in no uncertain terms our belief that coalition victory in Iraq is possible. The success of the Surge is undeniable. But, the Democrat majority has made it clear that they plan to stay the course on their strategy for precipitous withdrawal and guaranteed defeat. That is unacceptable." H.Con.Res. 315 reads in its entirety: Supporting the idea that coalition victory in Iraq is possible. Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That the Congress-- supports the idea that the war in Iraq is not lost; recognizes that the overall progress being made on the ground in Iraq is undeniable; recognizes that much of this progress is due to the skill, persistence, and valor of the American service member; recognizes that the decision by the President and our military leadership to provide a surge of troops to implement a new counterinsurgency strategy was the correct course of action and has been successful; and hopes for, and will do all it can to help ensure, coalition victory there as soon as possible. Wilson's resolution currently has nearly 100 cosponsors including the entire Republican House Leadership: Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) Deputy Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA) Republican Conference Chairman Adam Putnam (R-FL) Republican Conference Vice-Chair Kay Granger (R-TX) Republican Conference Secretary John Carter (R-TX) Republican Policy Committee Chairman Thad McCotter (R-MI) Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Duncan Hunter (R-CA) Middle East Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Pence (R-IN) U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), a 7-year Prisoner of War and decorated Vietnam hero. ###
03.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 17, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a former real estate attorney, issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 5565, a bill to provide a $15,000 tax credit to individuals purchasing a single-family home. "The decline in the housing market has had a direct and powerful impact on the overall health of our economy," said Rep. Wilson. "The rise in foreclosures coupled with a shrinking demand for new homes, has done damage to American economic confidence. This tax credit would give a much needed boost to the housing market while stimulating greater investment and put the overall economy back on sound footing." Background on H.R. 5565: This is a one-time tax credit spread out over a three year period. The tax credit is for eligible homes purchased between February 29, 2008 and March 1, 2009 The tax credit applies to: New homes whose construction permit is issued and construction began on or before September 1, 2007 A foreclosed home A home facing foreclosure ###
03.13.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 13, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after House Democrats passed H.Con.Res. 312, a bloated and wasteful budget resolution. "This Democrat Budget is nothing more than a continuation of the woeful tax and spend policies we have come to expect from this majority," said Rep. Wilson. "The American people deserve better than a government that takes more of their hard-earned money to pay for an out-of-control and wasteful bureaucracy. The record $683 billion dollars in tax increases this budget will impose on everyday Americans is an irresponsible burden on those who are already feeling the pinch from credit card debt, rising gas prices, and increased food and health care costs." 'Despite the rhetoric we hear from the other side of the aisle, this budget fails to provide any sort of entitlement or earmark reform to get the nation back on a strong fiscal footing. I am proud to have joined some of my colleagues including House Republican Leader John Boehner in leading by example to implement a self-imposed moratorium on earmarks. Congress will never be able to fix our large entitlement spending problems if we cannot muster the courage to first cut back on the wasteful pork projects that strain our budget and drain the confidence of the American people." NOTE: House Republicans submitted an amendment to H.Con.Res. 312 which would have scrapped the high tax, high spend Democrat budget and replaced it with a commonsense, fiscally responsible plan focused on the needs and not the wallets of the American people. The House Republican budget provides a balanced budget by 2012 without raising taxes; imposes a one-year moratorium on congressional earmarks; provides $1 billion more than the Democrat budget for Veterans healthcare to meet the needs of our troops; and, provides necessary reforms to Medicare and Medicaid to avoid a financial crisis. ###
03.11.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 11, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced today that he will not seek earmark requests in any Fiscal Year 2009 appropriations bills. "The American people are fed up with a Washington that fails to respect the taxpayer's wallet," said Wilson. "There remains no single set of standards to which all members of Congress abide by when requesting funding for local projects. This has led to a process that is broken and wasteful. Therefore, I see no choice but to enact an immediate one-year moratorium on all earmark requests from my office. I am proud to stand with many of my colleagues in supporting this call for a moratorium and ultimately the establishment of a truly transparent and accountable system that provides a set standard for everyone in Congress to follow, where all earmarks are publicly disclosed to the American people." NOTE: Last year, Congressman Wilson publically disclosed all earmark requests made in Fiscal Year 2008 to his constituents. This year, he has cosponsored H.Con.Res. 263, which would create a Joint Select Committee on Earmark Reform, provide a report to Congress on the practices of earmarks, and calls for a moratorium on earmarks until the report is presented to Congress. ###
02.19.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 19, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement today after hearing reports that Fidel Castro would resign as president of Cuba and head of the Cuban military. "For almost fifty years, Fidel Castro has ruled with an iron-fist as a communist dictator of the Cuban people. He has repressed their freedoms and stunted their economy. With reports that he may in fact resign as president, there is a window of opportunity for the Cuban people to begin building a free and democratic society that respects the rights of its people." "However, if Castro decides to simply replace his repressive rule with that of another, the Cuban people will remain subject to the ills of tyranny. That is unacceptable. Instead, the Cuban government should release all political prisoners immediately and begin working with the international community to do all we can to bring democracy and freedom to the Cuban people." ###
02.11.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 11, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after hearing of the passing of Representative Tom Lantos (CA-12), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Throughout his life, Congressman Lantos fought for liberty. As a young man opposed to the spread of Nazi fascism in Hungary and during his twenty-seven years in Congress, he was a leader for human rights and democracy around the world. He correctly identified himself as the most optimistic member of Congress, and I will always cherish his warm welcome to the Capitol of the Dalai Lama of Tibet last year as a champion of freedom. "Congressman Lantos was a man of the highest integrity which is reflected in the immense respect I and the rest of his colleagues had for him. As a fellow member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I am grateful to have known and worked with Chairman Lantos. At this time, my thoughts and prayers are with his wife Annette, their two daughters, and all his family and friends." ###
02.08.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 8, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) delivered the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday morning condemning the actions taken by the City of Berkeley, California to impede and slander Marine Corps recruiting efforts. "Madame Speaker, the City of Berkeley, California, recently disgraced itself by referring to brave Marines with slander when the city council voted to tell the Marine Corps to close its recruiting station. As a veteran, as the son-in-law of a veteran, and as the father of four sons in the military, I know firsthand of the education and opportunities provided by military service while promoting freedom. "In response to Berkeley, Congressman John Campbell has introduced legislation that would remove $2 million in secret earmarks for the City of Berkeley and instead send the money to the Marines. While I believe wholeheartedly in free speech, we owe respect to the very people who are sacrificing so much to defend our freedoms. I invite the Berkeley City Council to visit Beaufort, South Carolina, home of Parris Island, the Naval Hospital, and the Marine Corps Air Station to see how our patriotic community supports the brave men and women who serve as proud Marines. "In conclusion, God bless our troops and the United States Marine Corps, and we will never forget September the 11th." ###
01.28.2008	EMBARGOED UNTIL CONCLUSION OF STATE OF THE UNION January 28, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement this evening in response to President Bush's State of the Union Address. "Tonight, President Bush outlined a strong agenda for the upcoming year. He made clear that our nation faces many challenges, and that we must address these difficulties in a bipartisan manner. "As our troops continue to serve bravely overseas, Congress must not legislate a defeat in Iraq or Afghanistan and ignore the progress we have seen. The remarkable success on the ground in Iraq should be a clear sign that short-term political motives, like a precipitous withdrawal, is not only foolish but has very real, dangerous, and long-term consequences. The sacrifices our brave men and women in uniform have made and continue to make to protect American families is the primary concern of this President and should be the number one concern of this Congress. "On the domestic front, American families are facing rising prices at the pump and limited access to affordable health care. The President made it clear that he supports solutions that can garner bipartisan support and are grounded in a dedication to free market principles. That means less not more government interference. "Between wasteful pork spending and the runaway costs of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, future generations face a bill they will not be able to pay. It is incumbent upon Congress to make the tough decisions now and not kick these problems further down the road. I was pleased that President Bush reiterated his support for the type of sound, principled earmark reforms Republicans in Congress continue to champion. "Americans deserve honest and open leadership. I am proud to stand with President Bush in voicing my support for accountability in Washington and with optimism for the great potential our nation has to meet the challenges of our time." ###
01.25.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 25, 2008 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 689-4825 (Cell) Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after bonus depreciation language was included in the economic stimulus package agreed to by Congressional leadership and the White House. Congressman Wilson introduced legislation last year and in the 109th Congress to extend the bonus depreciation provisions included in the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. "As someone who has fought for and seen the positive impact of bonus depreciation, I am proud that we will have the opportunity to put it back into the market place," said Wilson. "This type of incentive will encourage American companies to invest in their own businesses and in our economy. By choosing to grow their companies on our soil and in our markets they will create more jobs for the hardworking Americans who are feeling the pinch of the economic slowdown." "The best way to stimulate our economy and to weather this current storm is to build on the principles that have made our economy the envy of the world. That means lower taxes, less government regulation, and economic incentives for American businesses. We must create an environment that will keep American jobs and American investment here at home." ###
01.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 17, 2008 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today encouraging Congressional leadership and President George W. Bush to include the Bonus Depreciation Extension Act of 2007 (H.R. 827) as part of an economic stimulus package. Introduced by Congressman Wilson at the beginning of last year, this bill provides a 50% depreciation deduction in the first year for qualifying machinery and equipment purchased by businesses. "In 2003, I stood at the White House with President Bush when he signed into law the "Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003". This legislation included a provision I had introduced to provide businesses with a 50% bonus depreciation on certain machinery and equipment. This increase in bonus depreciation contributed to the productivity of American businesses, a boost in job creation, and a steady rise in the growth of the economy over the last five years. "Unfortunately, those provisions expired and the current economic slow-down means that businesses are looking for greater incentives to invest in the economy and create new jobs. My legislation, once again, provides just such an incentive, and it has a proven track record of stimulating economic growth. "The American economy has seen an unprecedented rate of growth over the last few years thanks to the hard work and ingenuity of the American people and pro-growth Republican policies. We should build on that success by helping businesses invest in their own growth and create more jobs for hardworking Americans." ###
12.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 27, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Statement on the Death of Benazir Bhutto Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after hearing of the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. “I am deeply troubled and saddened by the death of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto,” said Wilson. “This terrible act is a chilling reminder of the violent attacks in the Global War on Terrorism that took the lives of moderate leaders including President Anwar Sadat of Egypt in 1981 by terrorists who evolved into al Qaeda. President Pervez Musharraf himself has been subject to at least three assassination attempts by terrorists. Such attempts by extremists to undermine and destabilize the advancement of democracy and peace must not be allowed to succeed.” “I had the privilege of meeting Ms. Bhutto on November 30th in Islamabad at her home. We discussed her fond memories of speaking for the Lexington Medical Center Foundation several years ago. I witnessed her dedication to the people of Pakistan, her determination to stop terrorism, and her commitment to the tenants of democracy. My deepest sympathy is with her family and the people of Pakistan.” ###
12.19.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 19, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Supports Troops, Opposes Massive Spending Bill Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after he supported an amendment to the Democrat Omnibus Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2764) which will provide $70 billion in funding for our soldiers fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. “While our men and women in uniform continue to serve in harm’s way to protect American families, some in Washington have tried to obstruct needed funding and resources for our troops,” said Wilson. “As we see substantial gains on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan, I am grateful that the sacrifices of our servicemen and women will be honored by this critical funding. I encourage my colleagues to not play politics with future funding for our troops or try to pile future spending packages onto their backs while they are defending our freedom around the world.” “Though I am grateful for the troop funding, the process under which the massive omnibus spending package was considered was as short-sighted as the bill is long. It failed to provide for proper scrutiny and a cost-benefit analysis where members would have the opportunity to rightfully debate funding levels particularly in regards to such important issues as border security. This Majority chose to include regulatory roadblocks that could prevent the construction of a border fence. “Honest debate was sharply curtailed or all out abandoned by the fact that these appropriations bills were considered as one giant package. That is counter to the promises of openness and transparency the Majority made to the American people and it is abusive to the trust of the American taxpayer. After months of wasteful investigations, political posturing, and continuing resolutions, the majority finally accomplished a primary responsibility of Congress - passing a budget and funding it.” ###
12.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 12, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Passage of Defense Authorization Bill Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, by a vote of 370 to 49 (Roll Call 1151). Congressman Wilson supported the final report. “The defense of this nation is our primary responsibility, and the brave men and women who serve in uniform deserve a Congress that is as committed to those efforts. I am pleased that we were able to craft legislation that will serve the needs of our military. “With so many National Guard soldiers fighting on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan, I am grateful that the Guard will be receiving its due recognition in this bill. Under the National Guard Empowerment Act included in this legislation, Congress has authorized a fourth star for the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and mandated that at least one deputy of the Northern Command will be an officer of the National Guard. “To better protect our soldiers from roadside bombs and other deadly tactics in Iraq and Afghanistan, this conference report will include $17.6 billion for mine resistant ambush protected (MRAP) vehicles that have already proven successful on the battlefield. “Thanks to Republican action, language in this conference report confirms that the aim of Congress is not to leave behind a failed Iraqi state where safe havens for terrorists would threaten American families. Our military should be able to count on our unwavering support for the fight in which they are engaged. By declaring with one voice that we are invested in success in Iraq, we will send a message to our enemies and our allies that America understands its commitments and the serious nature of our engagements.” ###
11.15.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 14, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Passage of Head Start Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives approved the Conference Report on H.R. 1429, the Improving Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007, by a vote of 381 to 36. Congressman Wilson, a conferee on the Head Start reauthorization, joined many of his colleagues in supporting the conference report. “Head Start is an important program that has the potential to help raise the level of early education for thousands of American children,” said Wilson. “However, there were necessary improvements that needed to be made to this program. I am pleased that many of those issues have been addressed in this conference report and that we will soon send this important legislation to the President’s desk for his signature.” “By raising teacher qualifications, we are ensuring that a greater number of Head Start teachers are fully prepared and versed in early education. This concentration on childhood development will help foster Head Start programs that are better focused on the fundamental skills of language, reading, and mathematics. “As with any government program, it is vital that we take full advantage of limited resources and personnel by establishing a good governance structure. I am reassured by the parental involvement provisions that have been included in this reauthorization. No one has a better understanding of the needs of their children than parents, and their involvement is imperative if we are to establish a program that can reach its full potential.” ###
11.08.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 8, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Calls on Democrats to Send Stand-Alone Veterans Appropriations Bill to the President Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after Senate Republicans were successful last night in splitting the Labor-HHS-Education and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bills. House Democrats had previously tried to pass the two bills as one giant spending package. “House Democrats have already wasted time and needlessly delayed crucial funding for our veterans by playing political games,” said Wilson. “I hope the House Democrat leadership will take a cue from their Senate colleagues and send the President a stand-alone Veterans bill he has already agreed to sign.” “The American people are tired of Congressional leaders who try to game the system to pass pork-laden spending bills. By using the Veterans funding bill as a political tool to push through other legislation, Democrats have tried to advance their budget-busting spending priorities on the backs of our military and our veterans. That is unacceptable. “On this coming Veterans Day, let’s send a message to the brave men and women who have sacrificed so much for this country and for the cause of freedom around the world. Let’s get them the funding they deserve.” Note: Congressman Wilson has joined many of his Republican colleagues in co-sponsoring H.R. 4104, a Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations conference agreement introduced by Congressman Roger Wicker (MS-01) yesterday that would send the Veterans spending bill to the President as a stand-alone bill. ###
10.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 25, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Democrats Propose Record Tax HikeJust More of the Same from this Tax and Spend Majority - Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement today after Ways & Means Chairman Charlie Rangel (D-NY) introduced legislation to raise taxes on Americans by over $1 trillion in order to “pay” for the repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax. “With record tax revenues, it is comical that Democrats still seem to believe that Washington has a revenue problem,” said Wilson. “However, with the billions in spending this majority has proposed, it is no surprise they are looking for new ways to tax the American people.” “This trillion dollar tax hike is the Democrats’ way to avoid making tough, fiscally responsible decisions. The American people expect better. We should be looking for ways to reduce the cost of bureaucracy and wastefulness, so that American families will not have to continue to foot the bill for bloated government spending. Only Democrats would see the logic in replacing one tax with another. Chairman Rangel’s proposal is all about taxes not taxpayers.” ###
10.18.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 18, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Introduces Bill to Protect Port Royal Sound - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after introducing H.R. 3883, legislation directing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to give priority consideration to Port Royal Sound under the EPA National Estuary Program. The EPA recognizes estuaries around the country that are in need of special protections. “Port Royal Sound is an environmental treasure for the people of South Carolina and holds economic and military importance for the State and the country,” said Wilson. “We should do all we can to protect this estuary now before future environmental damage or deterioration make it more costly and difficult.” “In the Lowcountry, where residents rely heavily on tourism and the fishing industry, Port Royal Sound continues to attract investment and residential growth while enhancing the character of the South Carolina coast. With the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort, the Parris Island Marine Recruit Depot, and the Naval Hospital Beaufort all located along Port Royal Sound, it is imperative that we ensure these facilities are protected by caring for and respecting the integrity of the sound.” Background: Port Royal Sound is located between Hilton Head Island to the south and Port Royal Island, Saint Helena Island, Parris Island to the North. The National Estuary Program currently consists of 28 programs.###
09.26.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 26, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Popcorn Act Is a Rush to Regulate - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2693, the “Popcorn Workers Lung Disease Prevention Act.” The final legislation did not include an amendment offered by Representative Wilson that would have ensured the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) made its final rule regarding diacetyl based on sound science. “We must do all we can to ensure the safety and well-being of American workers,” said Wilson. “I am disappointed that the bill passed today by the House of Representatives does a disservice to our workforce and to the regulatory function of OSHA. We have made a mistake in our rush to regulate, and, fundamentally, that is a flawed approach.” “I believe my colleagues are sincere in wanting to discover what is harming workers in and around microwave popcorn manufacturing facilities, and I share their concerns for the safety of American workers. However, insufficient scientific evidence exists to prove a direct link between diacetyl and impaired lung function. My amendment would have allowed OSHA to provide a rule to protect workers, but they would do so using scientific evidence. “The Popcorn Workers Lung Disease Prevention Act does not accomplish its intended goal. It regulates diacetyl and requires a standard to be set based on little or no available science.” Wilson Amendment to H.R. 2693: Would have required that the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) conclude that there is sufficient data to support a recommended exposure limit before OSHA establishes a final rule an exposure limit. Would have provided for the same swift action to protect workers by establishing an interim final rule which would provide guidance to manufacturers to take immediate steps to limit exposure through the use of engineering improvements, ventilation, and other strategies to protect workers. ###
09.20.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 20, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson: We Are Leading the Fight for Greater Fiscal Responsibility - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today after he joined many of his colleagues in signing a petition which would force a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to apply earmark reforms to tax bills and authorization bills. “The American people demand and deserve a transparent and open process whenever government spends their hard-earned taxpayer dollars,” said Wilson. “By making sure that all earmarks receive equal scrutiny no matter what type of legislation they are a part of, we will take another step toward reining in federal spending.” “Early this year, Republicans led a successful fight to require members to attach their names to any earmark they request and to provide for an open debate on those requests. This ended the majority’s plan to simply airdrop spending requests into bills at the eleventh hour. Once again, we are leading the fight for greater fiscal responsibility. I hope that Democrats will join us in standing up for the American taxpayer by supporting this petition and adopting these changes.” ###
09.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 10, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Statement on the Anniversary of 9/11 and Supporting Our Troops Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the upcoming anniversary of September 11th and the need to remain committed to supporting our troops and their mission. “Madam Speaker, I rise today to thank the brave men and women of our armed forces, our local first responders, and our intelligence community for the incredible work they do to protect our nation and stop the enemy overseas so we will not have to face them here at home again. “On the upcoming anniversary of September 11th, we must take this moment to reflect on the terrible tragedy that occurred six years ago causing our response to this Global War on Terrorism. We must maintain our resolve against Bin Laden who has declared this struggle the “Third World War” with Iraq and Afghanistan as the central front. “Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman wrote in today’s Wall Street Journal, ’in Iraq we are fighting and defeating the same terrorist network that attacked us on 9/11.’ We will succeed by remaining dedicated to promoting the safety of American families by denying the extremists safe havens. And, we are grateful to our servicemembers professionally led by General David Petraeus who work day and night to defend our freedom. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
09.07.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 7, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson: Immigration Bill Would Protect Americans and American Sovereignty Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) released the following statement today after cosponsoring the Charlie Norwood “Clear Law Enforcement for Criminal Alien Removal (CLEAR) Act” introduced by Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn. “Americans are waiting for action and commonsense solutions to the problem of illegal immigration,” said Wilson. “This bill provides some necessary improvements to our current immigration laws that will help local and federal law enforcement work together toward the common goal of protecting our communities.” “It is incredibly disappointing that barriers remain within our law enforcement communities, which undermine our ability to arrest, track, and deport illegal immigrants - in other words, enforce the law. With the Charlie Norwood CLEAR Act, we will be able to protect Americans and American sovereignty. The late Congressman Norwood understood the dangers of ignoring this issue, and I am honored to join my colleagues in carrying on this effort, which he began in the 108th Congress.” Background on the Charlie Norwood Clear Law Enforcement for Criminal Alien Removal (CLEAR) Act: Clarifies the authority of local law enforcement to enforce federal immigration laws; Breaks down barriers in information sharing between federal, state, and local; Establishes requirements for removing and deporting illegal aliens; Increases federal resources for use by local law enforcement.###
08.23.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 23, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) REMINDER: Wilson Announces 2007 District Bus Tour - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) on Monday, August 27, will embark on his sixth annual 5-day district bus tour. Congressman Wilson and his staff will travel throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his efforts in Congress. Please note some changes have been made to the schedule. Monday, August 27 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Lizard’s Thicket - 402 Beltline Boulevard, Columbia 8:30 a.m. Tour of USC School of Public Health - 921 Assembly St., Columbia 9:45 a.m. Tour of South Carolina Oncology Associates - 160 Stoneridge Dr., Columbia 10:45 a.m. Tour of USC Innovista 11:45 a.m. Visit to Columbia Chamber of Commerce - (Closed to Media) 12:45 p.m. Speech to Columbia Rotary Club - Seawell’s, 1125 Rosewood Dr., Columbia 2:30 p.m. Tour of Verizon Wireless Call Center - Richland Mall, 3400 Forest Dr., Columbia 3:45 p.m. Tour of Columbia International University - 7435 Monticello Rd., Columbia 4:45 p.m. Visit to Fairfield Electric Cooperative - 924 Langford Rd., Blythewood Tuesday, August 28 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Sunset Grill - 1213 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia 8:00 a.m. Visit to West Metro Chamber Breakfast - 1006 12th Street, Cayce 8:45 a.m. Tour of UPS Ground Systems - 1782 Old Dunbar Rd., West Columbia 9:45 a.m. Tour of Nucor Steel - 200 Whetstone Road, Swansea 11:00 a.m. Tour of Pelion High School - 600 Lydia Drive, Pelion 12:00 p.m. Lunch at Shealy’s BBQ - 340 E. Columbia Avenue, Batesburg 1:00 p.m. Visit to Union Switch and Signal - 645 Russell Street, Batesburg 2:00 p.m. Tour of US Food Service - (Closed to Media) 3:00 p.m. Visit to Lexington Town Hall - 111 Maiden Lane, Lexington 4:00 p.m. Visit to Irmo Chamber of Commerce - 1248 Lake Murray Blvd., Irmo 4:45 p.m. Tour of FB Johnston Graphics - (Closed to Media) Wednesday, August 29 8:30 a.m. Visit to Wagener Town Hall - 111 Railroad Avenue, Wagener 9:45 a.m. Tour of Hydrogen Center at Savannah River Site - (Closed to Media) 11:15 a.m. Tour of Energy Solutions - (Closed to Media) 12:15 p.m. Visit to Winton Inn - 8273 Marlboro Avenue, Barnwell 1:30 p.m. Tour of International Apparel - (Closed to Media) 2:30 p.m. Tour of Grant Forest Products - 9918 Buford’s Bridge Road, Fairfax 4:15 p.m. Tour of Okonite - 2276 Rowesville Road, Orangeburg Thursday, August 30 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Blackstone’s Caf? - 205 Scott’s Road, Beaufort 8:30 a.m. Visit to Beaufort Chamber of Commerce - 116 Carteret Street, Beaufort 9:30 a.m. Tour of Beaufort Memorial Hospital - 955 Ribaut Road, Beaufort 10:45 a.m. Visit to Ridgeland Town Hall - 1 Town Square, Ridgeland 11:30 a.m. Lunch at Hardeeville Town Hall - 205 East Main Street, Hardeeville 1:30 p.m. Tour of Hampton Regional Medical Center - 595 West Carolina Ave., Hampton 3:00 p.m. Visit to Sun City - (Closed to Media) 4:30 p.m. Visit to Coastal Carolina Medical Center - 1000 Medical Center Drive, Hardeeville Friday, August 31 9:30 a.m. Tour of CMC Steel - 310 New State Road, Cayce 10:30 a.m. Tour of Time Warner Cable - 3347 Platt Springs Road, West Columbia 11:15 a.m. Tour of Solectron - (Closed to Media) 12:15 p.m. Lunch at Doc's Barbeque and Southern Buffet - 1601 Shop Road, Columbia 1:30 p.m. Tour of USC Medical Center - 6439 Garners Ferry Road, Columbia 2:30 p.m. Tour of Wm. Jennings Bryan Dorn VA Medical Center - 6439 Garners Ferry Road, Columbia 3:45 p.m. Tour of Lamson & Sessions - 1091 Carolina Pines Dr., Blythewood * Some stops are subject to last-minute scheduling changes. Should a cancellation or time adjustment occur, invited media will be notified. ###
08.14.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 14, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Announces Grant for the Beaufort Police Department - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced that the City of Beaufort Police Department has been awarded $19,043 through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). “The members of the Beaufort Police Department under the leadership of Chief Jeff Dowling are hardworking and professional public servants. They protect our community and ensure that we can live, work, and play in a safe environment. The funding provided through the U.S. Department of Justice will help enhance the police department’s technological capabilities.” The U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program provides funding to local governments to help address a community’s law enforcement needs. ###
08.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 13, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Announces Grant for the Sawyerdale Volunteer Fire Department Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced that the Sawyerdale Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded $203,538 through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. “These funds will help the Sawyerdale’s volunteer fire fighters better protect the citizens of Sawyerdale and Orangeburg County. Under the leadership of Chief Lester Foster, the fire department will be better equipped and prepared to respond to the needs of our community.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program provides funding to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations to enhance their first-responder capabilities. These grants are awarded through a competitive application process. ###
08.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 4, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) U.S. and India Come Closer to Nuclear Agreement Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, issued the following statement today regarding the agreement between the United States and India on peaceful nuclear energy which will be sent to Congress for final approval. “I am encouraged by the progress that has been made in securing this agreement. The United States should embrace the opportunity to work with our ally India to ensure the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. As we move forward, we should address any and all concerns to ensure the final agreement strengthens our global partnership and addresses any potential risk regarding nuclear proliferation. “We have faced many hurdles in our attempts to make this agreement a reality. Some in Congress chose to oppose the initial legislation that made it possible to share nuclear technology with India. Nevertheless, Congress was able to find common ground on this issue. I remain a staunch supporter of cultivating this relationship, and I hope that critics will not oppose this agreement or attempt to impede the further development of a strong relationship with India. “I want to thank Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Under Secretary Nicholas Burns and all the esteemed members of the Indian government who have worked tirelessly to bring this agreement to the forefront. This relationship will serve to better unite our two nations in pursuit of a safe and sound nuclear policy. It will strengthen our national security, improve our nonproliferation efforts, and create more American jobs.” ###
08.03.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 3, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Republicans Fight for American Taxpayers - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement today regarding actions taken by the Democrats to overrule a vote on the House floor and give taxpayer dollars to illegal aliens. “Last night, I joined over 160 Republicans in protesting an undemocratic effort by the majority to overrule a vote that would have kept American taxpayer dollars out of the hands of illegal aliens. Despite the fact that the vote was a clearly marked victory, it was instead declared as having failed to pass. “The vote supported by the Republicans would have sent the agricultural funding bill back to the committee so it could be amended to bar illegal aliens from receiving any federal money in the legislation. Just the day before, the Democrat leadership extended taxpayer paid health insurance to illegal aliens. Republicans wanted to put a stop to this practice. “All nations have immigrants and border entry laws which should be enforced. To willfully extend benefits like health care and welfare to illegal immigrants is incorrect and a gross misuse of taxpayer dollars. It limits our citizens’ access to benefits, and it rewards people who by their presence are lawbreakers. “The success of the vote referred the bill back to the committee, so that it could be amended properly. Any subsequent vote that was taken regarding the agricultural funding bill was out of order and should not have been held. Therefore, with all votes under proper order having been completed, our unprecedented response was to stage a walk out of the chamber. “The actions taken by the majority declared that vote totals did not matter. This makes voting irrelevant until order is restored. “This insult to the American people of failing to address the issue of illegal aliens must stop. Republicans are relentlessly standing firm for our security, our sovereignty, and the American taxpayers.” ###
08.02.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 2, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Applauds the Construction of MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility in South Carolina Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding the news that the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) began construction on the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina. The MOX project is in accordance with an agreement between the United States and Russia to dispose of unnecessary weapons-grade plutonium. This facility will turn plutonium into energy-producing nuclear fuel. “This new facility is an important step in America’s efforts to dispose of unwanted weapons-grade plutonium in a responsible manner,” said Wilson. “The South Carolina and Georgia delegations have fought hard to get this facility the funding it needs and the support it deserves. I am pleased that so many remain committed to making this project a reality, and I look forward to monitoring its progress.” “The agreement reached between the United States and Russia is a testament to a new era of nuclear relations between our two countries. As a nation committed to ending the proliferation of nuclear arms, our MOX facility will turn a tool of war into an instrument of peaceful diplomacy and sound environmental policy. “The construction of this new facility means more than just a commitment to cleaning up our supply of excess plutonium. It will bring new jobs to South Carolina and provide a readily available supply of nuclear fuel to help meet our energy needs. There is no reason, in a time of increased demand, that we should let a vital energy source sit dormant in the ground. “I want to thank my colleagues in the South Carolina and Georgia delegations who have worked tirelessly to bring the MOX facility to the Savannah River Site.” ###
07.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERemarks as PreparedJuly 27, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Statement on First Female Indian President Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), co-chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans, today delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives. “Madame Speaker, this week, history was made in India; Mrs. Pratibha Devisingh Patil was elected President. Beginning July 25th, she became the first woman to serve as head of state, now serving as India’s 12th President. “Mrs. Patil was born in 1934 in the western state of Maharashtra and has led a long political career. Joining the Congress Party in the early 1960s, she spent over two decades in the state legislature. She then went on to participate in national politics and served in both the lower and upper chambers of India’s national parliament. In 2004, Mrs. Patil became the first woman governor of Rajasthan. Congratulations to President Patil and best wishes for future success. “As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the India Caucus, this news is especially important to me. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and President George Bush have developed a strategic partnership between India and America. Friendship between the world’s largest democracy and the world’s oldest democracy has never been better. The future is bright for both India and America.” “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September the 11th.” ###
07.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJuly 11, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Applauds Announcements of Lower Budget Deficit, Increase in JobsPro-Growth Republican Policies are Working Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), today issued the following statement in response to recently released reports on the reduced deficit and increase in jobs. “The deficit reduction is further proof that Republican policies are working and as a result, America’s economy continues to grow. The President and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) announced the new figures in the midyear fiscal review. Originally projected to be $244 billion, the OMB states the deficit is down to $205 billion. This represents the lowest deficit since 2002. The Associated Press reports that the drop can be credited to ’impressive revenue growth from the healthy economy.’ “Last week, the government announced that 132,000 new jobs were created in June, and the unemployment rate remained at the low rate of 4.5 percent, below the average of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. More than 2 million jobs have been created in the last 12 months, and 8.2 million jobs have been created since tax relief was initiated in June 2003. This has led to the fastest unemployment decline in nearly a decade. “There is no question that Republican pro-growth initiatives have benefited American families. Republicans remain committed to fiscal responsibility, and we will continue to oppose attempts to raise taxes and create entitlement programs. I urge my colleagues to make these tax cuts permanent so hard-working Americans, not the federal government, can continue to decide how to spend their money.” ###
06.29.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJune 29, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Co-sponsors Republican Immigration bill that focuses on “Security First” Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) co-sponsored the “Secure Borders FIRST Act of 2007,” introduced by Representatives Peter King (R-NY) and Lamar Smith (R-TX). The primary objective is to secure our border by focusing on simple principles. This legislation will give the Department of Homeland Security the tools necessary to gain operational control of our borders. In addition, H.R. __ will enforce our current immigration and workforce laws, mandate detention of those attempting to cross the border illegally, and refuse to give amnesty to illegal aliens. The bill also establishes English as our national language. “It is crucial that we first protect our citizens by securing our borders. We then need to enforce the laws already on the books. To be effective, a simple verification system must be created so employers can be confident they are hiring legal workers.” The bill will modify the current H-2A visa program, for temporary agricultural workers, to make it easier to facilitate the hiring process for farmers. It also has several provisions to ensure workers do not overstay their visas, such as prohibiting them from bringing their families to America and withholding a portion of their wages in escrow until they return home. “It is very important to the agricultural industry that we have an efficient visa system that will allow workers to help farmers at critical times. We also must make certain that these workers do not stay longer than their visa allows.” ###
06.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJune 12, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Democrats' Hidden Earmarks Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding Democrat attempts to decrease transparency in the earmark process: ???This week, Democrat Leaders will begin pushing their appropriations bills through the House without proper analysis or consideration. ???Less than a year ago, then-House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi proclaimed that her caucus was committed to restoring integrity to Congress. Specifically, she stated Democrats would ??????bring full accountability and transparency to all earmarks, those in authorization bills as well as those in appropriations bill.??? ???Yet today, House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey has turned his back on such promises, branding Republican attempts to hold Democrats accountable as ???demagoguery.??? ???Last year, Republicans passed legislation to identify all earmarks by the sponsoring Member???s name and allow Members to challenge individual earmarks on the House floor. ???Despite their promise to run the ???most open and honest Congress in history,??? it appears the Democrat-controlled House becomes more closed and secretive everyday.??? ###
06.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJune 12, 2007 CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Applauds Passage of Child Labor Bill Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2637, the “Child Labor Protection Act of 2007.” This bill increases penalties for child labor law violations. Wilson is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “This measure is a bipartisan effort to protect our children in the workforce. While children under the age of 18 are permitted to work under United States labor law, certain rules govern the actions they may or may not undertake. Under the bill we passed today, companies will receive stiffer monetary penalties should a violation of these laws result in the injury or death of a child in the workplace. “I appreciate the work of Chairman George Miller and Ranking Member Buck McKeon on this issue. I am grateful for President Bush’s support, which has proved critical to the bill’s passage. “I am pleased the House came together to pass this bill and ensure the safety of our nation’s children. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to quickly consider the measure.” ###
05.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 25, 2007CONTACT: Ryan Murphy(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 689-4825 (Cell) Wilson Announces New VA Clinic in Aiken - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced the Department of Veterans’ Affairs will open a new community-based clinic in Aiken. A clinic is also planned for the Spartanburg area. “This clinic will enhance the quality of life of South Carolina veterans, addressing their healthcare needs and expanding accessibility to available services. I am pleased the VA has chosen Aiken in the Second Congressional District as the site for this new facility,” said Wilson. The new facilities, called community-based outpatient clinics, or CBOCs, will become operational in 2007 and 2008. Local VA officials will keep communities and their veterans informed of milestones in the creation of the new CBOCs. “VA is committed to providing world-class health care to the men and women who have served this nation,” VA Secretary Jim Nicholson said. “These new clinics will bring VA’s top-notch care closer to the veterans who have earned it.” ###
05.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 24, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Votes to Support Troops Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today voted in favor of legislation to fund our soldiers’ missions in the Global War on Terrorism: “After weeks of political showdowns, I am pleased Congress is finally sending a bill to President Bush that will provide our troops with the funding they so desperately need to continue their missions. Our military has already begun to feel the effects of funding restraint. I am hopeful this bill will right the course and enable Secretary Gates to run a fully-functioning Department of Defense. “I remain disappointed the lives of our soldiers and the viability of our efforts in the Global War on Terrorism were endangered in hopes of scoring political points.” ###
05.16.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 16, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Democrats Refuse to Support Victory in Iraq Deny House the Right to Vote on Wilson Amendment Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Armed Services and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today released the following statement regarding the Democrat-controlled Rules Committee’s decision to deny the House a vote on supporting victory in Iraq: “I submitted an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act simply stating it is the sense of Congress that victory in Iraq is possible as long as national security policy is not undermined by Congressional micromanagement; the efforts of General Petraeus are not subverted; and the members of the Armed Forces are given all resources they need to accomplish their missions. “The Rules Committee accepted 50 amendments to the authorization bill, yet its Democrat members apparently felt it unnecessary that Members of Congress go on record as believing in victory or not. “Given recent proclamations by leaders of their caucus that the war is lost, I would think Congressional Democrats would embrace the opportunity to show their support for victory and our troops in Iraq.” ###
05.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 10, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Praises British Prime Minister Tony Blair Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding British Prime Minister Tony Blair’s announcement that he will resign as Prime Minister effective June 27. “In the very week we welcomed Queen Elizabeth II to the United States to commemorate 400 years of English settlement in North America, we recognize a Prime Minister who has promoted the deep relationship our countries share. “Prime Minister Blair has been a strong partner and faithful supporter of the United States. Britain is America’s staunchest ally in the Global War on Terrorism, and we have Tony Blair to thank. “Prime Minister Blair leaves behind a legacy of which the British people can be proud. Acting courageously for his country’s safety and well-being, Tony Blair is truly a man of remarkable character and boldness.” ###
05.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 10, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson to Stand with Military LeadersWill Oppose Democrat Attempts to Undermine War Effort Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Armed Services and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today released the following statement regarding Democrats’ continued attempts to undermine our efforts in the Global War on Terrorism and precipitously withdraw our troops from Iraq: “Democrat leaders are again playing politics with national security. The Iraq surrender bill we will consider this evening is a ploy to entice anti-war Democrats to support the new war funding bill. “Moreover, the war funding bill, which will only fund our troops for an additional 60 days, undercuts the efforts of our military at the most crucial of times. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates made clear the impact on the military should full funding not be approved. Specifically, he stated such a move would cause him to ’shut down significant elements of the Department of Defense.’ “I am repeatedly disappointed that Democrat leaders in Congress refuse to stand with our troops in support of victory.” ###
05.08.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 8, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Urges Skelton to Resist Political PloyCalls on Chairman to Consider Clean Defense Authorization Bill In response to recent news reports suggesting some Democrats may seek to include Iraq withdrawal language in the National Defense Authorization Act, Republican members of the House Armed Services Committee sent a letter to Committee Chairman Ike Skelton urging him to resist any such attempts. Please find the text of the letter below. May 7, 2007 Representative Ike SkeltonCommittee on Armed Service2120 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Skelton: Recent press articles have indicated that some of our colleagues within the House of Representatives may attempt to include contentious Iraq-related language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2008. Doing so would increase the risk of either a failed vote on the House floor or a veto by the Commander in Chief. Knowing that each committee member fully supports the interests and well-being of our troops, such a result would be inconsistent with the long-standing principles of the Committee on Armed Services. Therefore, we urge you to resist any attempts to include any such language in the NDAA. Such matters should be deliberately addressed by this committee, in a separate venue, per regular order absent any special rules. An issue, that is as important as the Iraq war, deserves open debate, discussion, and analysis by this body prior to implementing any major changes to our military’s capabilities and missions. We appreciate your personal attention to the matter and look forward to continuing our bipartisan work on such vital policy concerns. Very truly yours, Duncan HunterJim SaxtonThelma DrakeTerry EverettRoscoe BartlettJohn McHughMac ThornberryRob BishopBuck McKeonKen CalvertRobin HayesTom ColeTodd AkinRandy ForbesJo Ann DavisJohn KlineMike RogersTrent FranksJoe WilsonMike ConawayJeff MillerFrank LoBiondoGeoff DavisPhil GingreyMichael TurnerCathy McMorris Rodgers ###
05.03.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 3, 2007 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today opposed H.R. 1592, a bill that would categorize victims of violent crimes based on gender, sexual orientation, and race, among others, and levy harsher penalties against their attackers based on those criteria. "Law-abiding citizens oppose crimes against all persons. The law should not distinguish between victims or levy higher penalties based on a criminal???s supposed motive. Our legal system was founded on the principle that justice is blind. It is our duty to uphold this standard. "Furthermore, certain provisions of this bill would inhibit the free practice of religion and compromise First Amendment rights. For these reasons, I could not support this legislation."###
05.02.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 2, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Votes to Uphold Veto Calls on Democrats to Stop Playing Politics Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today voted to support President Bush’s veto of the Democrat Iraq Supplemental bill. The veto was upheld by a 222 - 203 vote. A two-thirds majority is needed to override a presidential veto. Wilson released the following statement: “Democrat leaders yesterday staged a ceremony to send their defeatist supplemental bill to President Bush. As Democrats coalesced around their proposal of surrender, our troops in Baghdad waited yet another day for critical funding. “The sad irony is that for all of their pomp and circumstance, Democrat leaders knew this bill would never see the light of day. As promised, President Bush vetoed the legislation last night. “The clock has struck midnight for Democrats in Congress. The time for political grandstanding has come to an end. I am hopeful we can now get down to the business of providing for our troops as they fight to protect American families.” ###
05.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 1, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on McTeer Bridge Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding the J. E. McTeer Bridge closure in Beaufort, South Carolina: “I am aware of the problems Beaufort County residents are experiencing due to the closure of McTeer Bridge. I appreciate Governor Mark Sanford’s response, and I look forward to working with Senators DeMint and Graham to rectify the situation as soon as possible. “I have contacted the U.S. Coast Guard and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to seek their help and guidance. I am hopeful normalcy will soon resume for Beaufort County residents and commuters.” ###
04.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 25, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson on Pelosi’s Busy Schedule Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today released the following statement regarding media reports that Speaker Nancy Pelosi will skip a bipartisan Iraq briefing by General David Petraeus: “General Petraeus is honorably and competently leading our men and women on the battlefield. He is overseeing our day-to-day operations in Iraq and is uniquely positioned to report on the progress of the new Iraq strategy. “Yet, while Speaker Pelosi was able to jet-set around the globe to meet with Syrian leaders, she finds it inconvenient to meet with the U.S. commander in Iraq during his brief visit to Washington. “As the House prepares to vote on the Democrat withdrawal proposal, it is insulting and disrespectful that the Speaker of the House cannot find time to meet with the man leading our troops into combat.” ###
04.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 25, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Votes for Victory in Iraq Rejects Democrats call for Early Withdrawal Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, tonight voted in support of our troops in Iraq and their mission to bring stability to the region: “As our troops on the battlefield seek to stabilize Iraq, win the Global War on Terrorism, and protect American families, Democrats in Congress are obsessed with retreat and defeat. “Reason dictates that announcing one’s battle plans to the enemy only emboldens extremism and encourages future attacks. Unfortunately, under Democrat leadership, reason has been forsaken in favor of political opportunism. “Once President Bush vetoes this legislation as he has promised, I am hopeful we can send a clean war supplemental bill to his desk and get our men and women the funding they so desperately need.” ###
04.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 24, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on New Democrat Withdrawal Plan Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today released the following statement regarding the Democrats’ new plan to withdraw troops from Iraq and concede defeat: “The Democrat supplemental bill ignores the concerns of military commanders on the ground, the voice of the American people, and the safety of our troops on the battlefield. “While Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid decries the war as ’lost’ and Congressman John Murtha proclaims it is Congress’ ’job’ to micromanage the war’s execution, our men and women in combat are left without critical funding to carry out their missions. “Despite President Bush’s pledge to veto any legislation setting withdrawal dates, Democrats refuse to put forward a clean supplemental bill to provide our troops with the funding they need. On the contrary, Democrat leaders have now moved up their withdrawal date. “The effects of such irresponsibility are real: our troops’ safety is jeopardized, their mission compromised, and the protection of American families endangered.” ###
04.21.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 21, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Blue Angels Crash Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), today released the following statement after a Navy Blue Angels aircraft crashed during an air show in Beaufort, South Carolina: “I am deeply saddened by this horrible accident. I have contacted the Department of the Navy and will stay in communication with Navy officials as information concerning the crash becomes available. “I am closely monitoring the situation, and my thoughts and prayers are with families of all affected and the entire Beaufort community.” ###
03.29.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 29, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Mourns Passing of Extraordinary South Carolinian Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today extends his heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends, and loved ones of Gene McKay. "South Carolina has lost a giant in broadcasting with the death of Eugene Klemick, who we all knew as the legendary Gene McKay. "Gene had a keen insight which produced an instant humorous wit with profound political beliefs and a great love of America. He was a devoted family man and patriot who helped Midlands residents begin each day with cheer. He was a proud Polish-American from Chicago who became beloved in South Carolina. "As an admirer and friend, our family extends our sympathy to Roni, Katherine, his grandchildren, extraordinary coworkers, and countless friends." ###
03.29.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 29, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Supports Fiscal Responsibility, Spending Restraint Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the conservative Republican Study Committee, today opposed the Democrat FY 2008 budget proposal, offered by Budget Chairman John Spratt (SC-05) on behalf of House Democrats: “The budget proposal today approved by House Democrats will raid the pocketbooks of American taxpayers, stifle our growing economy, and decrease average American families’ quality of life. “While claiming their proposal balances the budget, Democrats fail to acknowledge it actually represents the largest tax increase in American history - nearly $400 billion. In my home of South Carolina, nearly 1.5 million taxpayers will face an average tax increase of more than $2,400. “Democrats should not balance the budget on the backs of American workers. Our thriving economy is a direct result of Republicans’ responsible fiscal policies. Should the Democrat budget proposal be enacted, it is middle-class Americans who will suffer.” ###
03.28.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 28, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Injured Troops Deserve Best Care Possible Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today voted to ensure America’s wounded troops receive the best medical care possible. H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warriors Assistance Act of 2007, passed with a unanimous vote of 426 - 0. “Our men and women in the US Armed Forces deserve the finest medical care we can provide. I was greatly concerned when learning of the dire living conditions our nation’s wounded veterans have been made to endure at Walter Reed Medical Center. “While Walter Reed is renowned as a world-class facility, recent management neglected to provide adequate care. I am pleased Congress has come together to correct this situation and ensure our military medical system remains the best in the world.” ###
03.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 27, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Employee Classification Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), ranking Republican of the House Committee on Education and Labor’s Workforce Protections Subcommittee, today released the following statement after the Subcommittee’s hearing on worker classification: “Our Subcommittee today heard from concerned employers regarding laws governing worker classifications. Some assert employees are intentionally being misclassified as ’independent contractors’ to circumvent taxes and benefits otherwise paid to full employees. “Employee misclassification is an injustice to workers and competing employers. Before concluding employers are purposefully thwarting the system, the process by which employee classification is determined should be examined. “With multiple and contradicting ’tests’ used to establish worker classification, it is probable the system - not employer malice - is to blame. By simplifying the laws regulating classification, fewer instances of misclassification would occur, workers would be better protected, and employers could be confident they are adhering to the law.” A sample of tests used to determine if a worker is an “employee” or an “independent contractor” includes: ? A ten-factor common law “right to control” test, which is often used by courts to determine employee status in various types of cases, including employment discrimination and benefit cases, tax cases, and tort liability cases; ? A six-factor analysis of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), in which the U.S. Department of Labor uses an “economic realities test” to determine coverage under, and compliance with, the requirements of the FLSA; and ? An Internal Revenue Service (IRS) test, which focuses on the relationship between the worker and the business. Under the IRS test, all evidence of control and independence in the employer-worker relationship is considered. The facts that provide this evidence fall into three categories: behavioral control, financial control, and the type of relationship itself. The IRS also may use a “Twenty Factor Test” to determine whether an individual is an employee or independent contractor. ###
03.23.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 23, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Opposes Democrat Withdrawal Plan Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus and member of the House Armed Services Committee, today voted against the Democrat plan to withdraw from Iraq. Wilson released the following statement: “As our troops fighting in the Global War on Terrorism continue to risk their lives for our safety, I am repeatedly disappointed by the actions of House Democrats. Their plan for withdrawal, included in the emergency supplemental bill, dictates management of the war regardless of the situation on the ground. “If we learned anything from the Vietnam War it is that wars are not won in the halls of Congress. On the contrary, movement of US troops must be determined by commanders on the ground - not politicians in Washington. “The outcome of the Iraq war will determine the fate of our nation. Future generations will hail the bravery or condemn the cowardice of our leaders. We must endure, and we must achieve victory. “Unfortunately, Republicans and those in the Democrat Party who understand what is at stake were outdone by the arm-twisting of the House Democrat leadership. I am thankful that President Bush has pledged to veto the bill.” ###
03.21.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 21, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Condemns Democrats’ Budget Proposal Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the conservative Republican Study Committee, today issued the following statement in response to Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt’s (SC-05) FY 2008 budget proposal, offered on behalf of House Democrats: “Democrats are as predictable as the sun: it continues to rise in the East and they continue to tax-and-spend. “The Democratic budget released today proposes the largest tax increase in American history - $392.5 billion. “Republicans believe fiscal restraint and pro-growth economic policies will lead to budget surpluses. Democrats believe out of control government spending should be subsidized with the hard-earned money of American taxpayers. “Unfortunately, the Democratic budget continues to squeeze taxpayers’ pocketbooks without tightening the belt of big government. Such reckless policies will surely impede our growing economy.” ###
03.09.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 9, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Handgun Ruling is “Shot in the Arm” Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), longtime member of the National Rifle Association, today applauded the ruling by a federal appeals court striking down the District of Columbia’s handgun ban: “Today’s decision by the DC Court of Appeals is a shot in the arm for Second Amendment advocates. For too long DC residents have been denied the fundamental right to protect themselves and their families. “This is truly a victory for law-abiding, gun-owning citizens.” ###
03.08.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 8, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Democratic Proposal is Recipe for Defeat Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, today released the following statement after Democratic leaders put forth a plan setting a timetable for US troop withdrawal from Iraq: “This measure is a poorly disguised wolf in sheep’s clothing. Draped in the cover of an emergency supplemental bill, this proposal will snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. “Movement of US troops must be determined by commanders on the ground - not politicians in Washington. “As Republicans continue to advocate on behalf of our troops’ success, victory in the Global War on Terrorism, and the protection of American families, I hope moderate Democrats will stand up for the troops and join us in opposing this reckless legislation.” ###
03.07.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 7, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Introduces Credit Card Abuse Prevention Act Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today introduced the “Government Credit Card Abuse Prevention Act.” This bill seeks to reform the government credit card program used in federal agencies for purchase and travel purposes. Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA) introduced a companion measure in the Senate. Wilson and Grassley introduced similar legislation in the 109th Congress. “I am pleased to once again join with Senator Grassley in combating cases of widespread government abuse and working to reform the program. During the past several years, rampant purchasing abuse has been uncovered. Such instances range from employees using government credit cards to buy jewelry, designer leather goods, alcohol, and concert tickets. Such blatant exploitation cannot be tolerated. “The bill Senator Grassley and I today introduced will require penalties for abuse when it occurs, mandate classes on proper use of the cards, require audits to be performed regularly, and make sure every employee undergoes a standard credit check before they are issued a card. “American taxpayers will not allow continued fraudulent behavior. The program must be reformed so another dollar is not wasted.” ###
03.05.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMarch 5, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson and Brown Applaud Passage of Francis Marion Act Congressmen Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Henry Brown (SC-01) tonight released the following statements after House passage of H.R. 497, the “Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act of 2007.” The legislation authorizes the Marion Park Project, a committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, to establish a commemorative work on Federal land in the District of Columbia to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion. The bill overwhelmingly passed by a 390 - 0 vote. “I am humbled by my colleagues’ support in recognizing General Marion’s contributions to our country’s independence. General Marion was a true American hero, and his recognition in our nation’s capital is a tribute to every South Carolinian. I look forward to working with the Senate to ensure passage of this significant legislation as the first step toward erecting a statue in the General’s honor.” - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) “General Francis Marion is an important part of the history of South Carolina and the national forest bearing his name is located within my Congressional District. His contributions to the success of the American Revolution merit this recognition in Washington. I am committed to work with the Senate toward passage of this bill, not only for my constituents, but for all South Carolinians.” - Congressman Henry Brown (SC-01) ###
03.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERemarks as PreparedMarch 1, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Democrat Card Check Bill Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, today delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the Democrat proposal to strip workers of their secret ballot rights: “Madame Speaker, I rise today in support of Ranking Member Buck McKeon’s alternative to the so-called ’Employee Free Choice Act.’ Mr. McKeon’s substitute, originally championed by the late Congressman Charlie Norwood, guarantees employees the right to hold secret ballot elections when deciding whether to form a union and prohibits the implementation of a coercive card check authorization. “Just as American voters are free to elect their public officials in secrecy, so should American workers be free to vote for or against union representation. While no one would approve of exposing voters to public ridicule or intimidation at the voting booth, this is exactly what proponents of the Democrat Card Check bill are seeking to force upon American workers. Several of our colleagues wrote to Mexican officials in 2001 urging the sanctity of secret ballot elections be upheld. Specifically, they penned, ’We feel that the secret ballot is absolutely necessary in order to ensure workers are not intimidated into voting for a union they may otherwise not choose.’ “Evidence suggests that under card check agreements, employees are likely to be coerced or misled, often being falsely told the forms are non-binding ’statements of interest,’ requests for an election, or even benefit forms or administrative paperwork. The McKeon alternative will ensure workers are not left vulnerable to this type of arm-twisting. “A poll will be released today by the Coalition for a Democratic Workplace demonstrating that 87 percent of Americans believe workers should have the right to a secret ballot. In fact, 79 percent oppose the ill-named ’Employee Free Choice Act.’ “I urge my colleagues to join with me in supporting the wishes of the majority of Americans and voting in favor of Ranking Member McKeon’s alternative. I yield the balance of my time.” ###
02.28.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 28, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Announces Co-Chair of Victory in Iraq Caucus Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced Congressman Jeff Miller (FL-01) as co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus. Wilson originally formed the Caucus in 2005 with then-Congressman Mark Green (WI-08). Green did not seek re-election to the 110th Congress. “I have the great pleasure of serving with Congressman Miller on the Armed Services Committee and am honored he is joining me as co-chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus. I have the highest regard for Jeff as a colleague and a friend. I am confident that together we can trumpet the achievements of our troops in Iraq, work to ensure their victory in the Global War on Terrorism, and rally our colleagues to the cause,” stated Wilson. “I want to thank my good friend Congressman Wilson for his unwavering support of our troops and for our military. He is a true patriot, and it is my honor to stand with him in support of victory in Iraq. Joe understands that the best way to assist our troops in theater is to give them the resources they need and the support from home they deserve. There is no greater mistake Congress can make than to repeat the blunders of the Viet Nam era Congress and systematically defund our troops in Iraq. Our men and women in uniform deserve better, and I look forward to working with Congressman Wilson to make sure that is what they get,” said Miller. The mission of the Victory in Iraq Caucus is to honor the men and women of the US Armed Forces and promote their success in the Global War on Terrorism. The Caucus recognizes and appreciates the importance of debate surrounding national security policy. The Caucus welcomes debate among its members regarding the best way forward in Iraq, noting all agree on the outcome: there is no end but victory. ###
02.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 13, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Victory in Iraq Caucus Members Respond to Democratic Iraq Resolution Victory in Iraq Caucus Members today released the following statements regarding the Democratic resolution opposing President Bush’s plan to send additional troops to Baghdad: “It is unfortunate that Democrats continue to play politics with the most important issue of our day. Defeat in Iraq would have catastrophic consequences for the United States and the world. Yet, instead of working to advance our mission in Iraq and promote victory, Democrats are content to grandstand on the floor of the House, oppose President Bush’s efforts, and offer no substantive alternatives.” - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Chair, Victory in Iraq Caucus “These meaningless nonbinding resolutions are a distraction; this is just a political stunt by the Democrats that will not bring us any closer to ending the war. It only serves to weaken the morale of our fighting men and women and allows our enemy to claim victory.” - Congressman John Carter (TX-31) “As Stuart Mill said, ’War is an ugly thing, but not the ugliest of things. The decayed and degraded state of moral and patriotic feeling which thinks that nothing is worth war is much worse.’ In Iraq, the only thing worse than staying, changing our approach, losing American lives, and persevering through suicide bombings and IED’s would be to retreat by a date certain leaving our troops and our nation in a more dangerous world. It may be unpopular, but I believe that the reason our enemies have not attacked the United States since 9/11 is that they do not want us united. They much prefer dissent and division. After all, ’a nation divided cannot stand.’ Proverbs 28:2 says, ’when a man is in rebellion, it has many rulers.’” - Congressman Zach Wamp (TN-03) “How can the majority party in Congress fund something that it believes is against U.S. interests? I am not sure how any member of either chamber can look the family of a young man serving in Iraq in the eye and tell them, ’we don’t think your son’s mission in Iraq is in the interest of the United States, regardless, we are going to send him there and fund it. Senator Kerry once asked, ’How do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake,’ yet if the Democrat majority believes that the plan in Iraq is not in U.S. interests, that is exactly what they are asking of our servicemen and women. “If the majority party in Congress believes that the mission in Iraq - as offered by the Commander-in-Chief and General Petraeus - is not in the interest of our nation, then they have the moral obligation to introduce legislation to end or change that mission. They owe that to the men and women in our armed forces and their families. They owe that to their constituents. They owe that to every American.” - Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) “As some of you may remember, on February 12, 1973, the first wave of the longest held Prisoners of War left Hanoi. I was among them. Words can not fully describe the unspeakable damage of the anti-American efforts against the war back home to the guys on the ground. I promised myself many things I would do when I returned home safely to my family - and one was that I would fight to ensure America never lets down our troops in harms way again. The Democrat resolution to deny success in Iraq is the first step for them to cut funding for our troops in harm’s way. “We are elected to protect our men and women in uniform, just as they protect our freedom everyday. As long as we deploy men and women across the globe, we should never, ever leave a member of our military in harm’s way without support.” - Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) “This non-binding resolution does nothing to either win the war or end the war. It does nothing more than encourage our enemies and discourage our brave men and women who are in Iraq to finish their job.” - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) “In a time of war our citizens and those defending our freedoms deserve leadership, not politics. This non-binding resolution does little more than undermine the war on terror, demoralize our troops, and embolden the enemy. The President put forth a plan for victory that understands the mistakes of the past and sets benchmarks to measure Iraqi involvement and success. Congress should allow time for the plan to take hold, not put forth a resolution that is clearly a first step in a policy of retreat and defeat.” - Congressman Gresham Barrett (SC-03) “What this resolution shows the American people is that the Democrats, yet again, for all of their rhetoric have no plan and no alternative to fight Islamic extremism. This is a critical time for us in Iraq and this resolution does noting but embolden our enemies and send a message to our troops that their government is weak-kneed in its support of their mission.” - Congressman Bill Shuster (PA-09) “The Democrats non-binding resolution is nothing more than a political ploy, rather than a venue for substantive debate on the way forward in Iraq. This rhetoric is dangerous, and lends the impression that we do not support the efforts of our troops as they put their lives on the line for our freedom. The consequences of failure in Iraq are monumental, and we cannot risk defeat by the Islamic extremists that seek to destroy us. This resolution is merely a stunt that holds no water and does nothing but damage the morale of our troops and embolden the enemy that we are fighting.” - Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) ###
02.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERemarks as PreparedFebruary 13, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Iraq Resolution Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, tonight delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our men and women serving in the United States Armed Forces and in opposition of H.Con.Res. 63, a resolution that claims to support the troops but opposes reinforcements. To truly support our troops, we must provide the equipment and sufficient personnel requested by their commander, General David Petraeus. “I believe that we must triumph in the Global War on Terrorism, that victory in Iraq is the only option, and that America’s survival is at stake. My convictions are deeply derived from personal experience and historical perspective. My concerns have been developed as a member of the Armed Services Committee, through which I have visited Iraq six times, as a 31-year veteran of the Army Reserves and Army Guard, and as the proud parent of an Iraq veteran. “Less than a year after the war in Iraq began, my eldest son, Captain Alan Wilson, was deployed across Iraq where he served honorably for one year. He has been a trusted military advisor to me regarding life on the front lines in Iraq. “Alan today continues to serve in the South Carolina Army National Guard. In addition to Alan, my younger three sons are also in the military. My wife Roxanne and I appreciate their dedication to protecting American families. The decision to support continued efforts in Iraq is not one I made lightly. In the end, however, it is the only viable solution. Retreat is not an option. Defeat is not an option. There is no end but victory. “I was truly transformed on September 11th, and I live with its ramifications everyday. I sincerely believe we are faced with fighting the terrorists overseas today or we will face them in the streets of America tomorrow. “The attacks of September 11th were not isolated, random events. Our enemy is highly intelligent, well-financed, and committed to the destruction of our freedoms. “The concept that America’s retreat in Iraq will bring an end to sectarian violence and terrorist activity in the region ignores history. Premature retreat will embolden the enemy and make us more vulnerable to attacks. We have seen it happen before. Withdrawals from Beirut and Mogadishu led to the 1993 World Trade Center attack, the 1998 embassy bombings across Africa, the 2000 bombing of the USS Cole, and ultimately September 11, 2001. “Al-Qaeda has openly stated Iraq is the central front in the war on terror. Osama bin Laden himself has said, ’The issue is big and the misfortune is momentous. The most important and serious issue today for the whole world is this Third World WaràI say to you that the war will be won either by us or by you. If it’s the former, loss and disgrace will be your lot for all eternity, and, Allah be praised, this is the way the wind is blowing. If it is the latter, you should read the history (books). We are a nation that does not remain silent over injustice, and we seek blood vengeance all life long. Not (many) days and nights will pass before we take blood vengeance, like we did on 9/11.’ “We ignore bin Laden’s words to the peril of American families. “All of this is not to say that Members of Congress do not have an obligation to question foreign policy. As elected public officials, it is our duty to do so. If by conscience one disagrees with our direction, he or she has a responsibility to put forth an alternative plan. “An alternative plan, however, is not what we are today debating. Instead, the Democratic leadership has put aside more than 36 hours of debate for a resolution that provides no substantive solutions. “Our men and women in uniform deserve better. Their families deserve better. These men and women deserve to know that America supports them, that Congress will provide requested equipment and personnel, and that we are all committed to their victory. “There is no magic bullet, no cure-all pill. But the fact remains that we must endure. The stakes are too high, the consequences of defeat too catastrophic. As men and women elected to represent our constituencies and provide for their well-being, it is our responsibility to look out for the safety of American families. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
02.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 13, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Passing of Charlie Norwood Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement after learning of the death of Congressman Charlie Norwood (GA-10). “Upon my election five years ago, two of the first people to offer guidance to me were Charlie and Gloria Norwood. As a member of Congress from an adjoining district, I learned firsthand of Charlie’s dedication to the public and his love of America. I join with my colleagues in mourning his passing and sending my prayers to his family, staff, and constituents. “May God bless the Norwood family at this time.” ###
02.07.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 7, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Victory in Iraq Caucus Members Rebuke Plan to Undercut War Effort Victory in Iraq Caucus Members today responded to Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Murtha’s reported plan to “fence money” for the war effort. As reported by CQ Today: “Murthaàsaid he is considering a recommendation to the full committee that it redirect the money to equipment instead of additional troops for the surge. ’We’re going to fence money if we have to,’ Murtha said.” “Members of Congress certainly have a responsibility to debate war policy. Tying the Pentagon’s hands in the middle of battle, however, is not a viable strategy. “President Bush is Commander-in-Chief. He has indicated his intention to move forward with troop reinforcements in an effort to stabilize Baghdad. Refusing to fund this mission not only undermines U.S. national security but also endangers our men and women on the battlefield. This approach will cut funding for troops on the ground, as the reinforcements will be in place by the time the supplemental is enacted. “Should Congressman Murtha make such a recommendation, we urge the House Democratic leadership to dismiss it outright.” The above statement was released by Reps. Joe Wilson (R-SC-02), John Carter (R-TX-31), Jeff Miller (R-FL-01), Phil Gingrey (R-GA-11), Sam Graves (R-MO-06), Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), Steve King (R-IA-05), Gresham Barrett (R-SC-03) and Sam Johnson (R-TX-03). ###
01.31.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 31, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Joins Anti-Terrorism Caucus Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) this week joined the newly formed Anti-Terrorism Caucus, a bipartisan group to educate Members of Congress about the threat of terrorism at home and abroad. Vice Chair of the Republican Conference Kay Granger (R-TX), along with Representatives Sue Myrick (R-NC), Bud Cramer (D-AL), and Ben Chandler (D-KY), founded the Caucus to provide Members with current information regarding terrorist threats, their fundamentalist ideology, and the strategies and tactics they employ. The group is currently 68 members strong. “If we are to protect our nation from future attacks, we must understand the mindset of those seeking our destruction. Members of Congress must make decisions everyday that impact the direction of our country. It is imperative we have current, practical, and accurate information. “I commend Vice Chairwoman Granger for recognizing the need for a bipartisan, educational organization to keep Members informed and foster cooperation between parties on the most important issue of our day,” stated Wilson. Caucus leaders plan to hold monthly meetings featuring terrorism and counter-terrorism experts who will brief Members on current and evolving terrorist threats in the United States and around the world. ###
01.23.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 23, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Reacts to State of the Union Address Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) tonight released the following statement regarding President Bush’s State of the Union Address: “President Bush tonight unveiled his plans for the future of our nation. While Washington has experienced a power shift, the President serves the entire country - not one party. Thus, I am hopeful Congress can work together to implement the best of his ideas for the betterment of the American people. “I appreciate and firmly support President Bush’s resolve to win the Global War on Terrorism. As he stressed, success in Iraq is imperative to our security here at home. I am encouraged by recent strides of the Iraqi government. The quicker Iraqi Security Forces are trained, the quicker our men and women can come home. “I am encouraged the President is continuing to advocate for alternative energy sources. Decreasing our dependence on foreign oil is good for our economy and our national security. I look forward to examining the President’s proposed tax reform, which has the potential to make healthcare more accessible and affordable. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to move forward on the President’s agenda and produce real reforms for the American people.” ###
01.22.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 22, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Supports Increased Oversight of President’s Iraq Strategy Endorses Republican Efforts to Establish Select Committee for Oversight Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today endorsed a plan put forward by Republican Leaders for identifying benchmarks for success in Iraq and establishing a select committee to oversee the implementation of said benchmarks. Wilson released the following statement: “President Bush has put forward a new strategy for victory in Iraq. Now more than ever, it is time for Democrats and Republicans to come together to ensure this strategy is a success. “I applaud John Boehner’s leadership and foresight on this issue. It is critical that we succeed in Iraq. Congressional oversight is a key component in holding all parties accountable and ensuring progress. “I urge Speaker Pelosi to agree to this proposal and quickly move to establish the bipartisan select committee recommended by Leader Boehner.” ###
01.18.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 18, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Cosponsors Johnson-Cantor Bill to Protect American Troops Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today cosponsored the Johnson-Cantor legislation to oppose the interruption or restriction of funding for American troops in combat zones. “I am a 31-year veteran of the South Carolina Army National Guard, and I have four sons in the military - the oldest of whom served for a year in Iraq. I understand the emotional stress families feel when loved ones are deployed in a theater of war. I also remember the comfort I took in knowing my son had experienced commanders, superior training, and state-of-the-art equipment. “As Members of Congress with different backgrounds and different constituencies, we may disagree about the best way to proceed in Iraq; however, our troops’ safety should not be a topic for debate. President Bush is our Commander in Chief. He has committed our forces, and it is the responsibility of Congress to ensure these men and women receive the best resources possible for fulfilling their mission. “Honest discussion regarding the way forward in Iraq is certainly acceptable - in fact, it’s our duty as Americans and elected public servants. Political grandstanding in lieu of offering real solutions, however, is irresponsible and insulting to our men and women in uniform who have put themselves in harm’s way to defend our freedoms. “I appreciate Congressman Johnson and Deputy Whip Cantor’s efforts to protect our soldiers, and I am proud to cosponsor this bill,” Wilson stated. ###
01.18.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 18, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Named Ranking Member of Subcommittee on Workforce Protections Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, today was named Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections. “It is an honor to serve under the leadership of Chairman George Miller and Ranking Member Buck McKeon. I appreciate Ranking Member McKeon entrusting to me the leadership of the Workforce Protections Subcommittee. “I look forward to working with Subcommittee Chairwoman Lynn Woolsey as we address the working conditions of America’s labor force,” Wilson stated. “The health and safety of our nation’s workers is one of our highest priorities, and Congressman Wilson has long been a strong and reliable voice on their behalf,” said Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon. “There is a delicate balance between the responsibilities of government, employers, and workers, and I know that Congressman Wilson will be a thoughtful and steady leader on the critical issues before his subcommittee.” ###
01.16.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 16, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Reintroduces Legislation to Memorialize Brigadier General Francis Marion With the support of the entire South Carolina delegation, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today reintroduced the “Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act.” The legislation authorizes the Marion Park Project, a committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, to establish a commemorative work on Federal land in the District of Columbia to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion. “Brigadier General Francis Marion well represented the state of South Carolina and our fledgling nation with his brave service in the Revolutionary War. As a South Carolinian, I am proud his legacy has been honored with a memorial park in Washington, D.C. Yet, I feel strongly that a statue of the ’Swamp Fox’ should be erected on its premises. Passage of this bill is a crucial first step in making this dream a reality. “I would specifically like to thank Ken Driggers and Nancy Stone-Collum of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation. Additionally, I would like to thank the South Carolina Humanities Council for supporting John McCabe, the man who originally had the vision to honor the ’Swamp Fox.’ John created the Francis Marion Park Project to assist with fundraising and planning once this bill is enacted. The National Park Service also deserves recognition for their guidance through this important process.” The “Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act” was originally passed by the House of Representatives in the 109th Congress. ###
01.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 12, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Introduces Adoption Tax Credit Legislation Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, today reintroduced the “Adoption Tax Relief Guarantee Act of 2007.” This bill seeks to make permanent the $10,000 child adoption tax credit, which is set to expire in 2010. “As the father of an adopted son, I know all too well the challenges and rewards adoption brings. “The adoption process can be mentally and physically exhausting. Families should not be overwhelmed with financial burdens as well. We should offer incentives - not penalties - to those making this commitment. “I am proud to sponsor this bill, which will ensure tax relief currently in place for adoptive parents becomes permanent. This legislation is necessary to promote adoption and foster the creation of happy homes.” The “Adoption Tax Relief Guarantee Act of 2007” was introduced with 33 original cosponsors, including Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel. ###
01.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 12, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) DEMOCRATS’ 100 HOUR PLAN Wilson Supports Seniors’ Access to Prescription Drugs Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement on H.R. 4, the “Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007”: “When a government program is not working, we have an obligation to fix it. This is not the case, however, with Medicare Prescription Part D. In fact, Part D is working well. “Just yesterday, the Medicare Prescription Education Network released a study showing that 80 percent of seniors enrolled in Medicare Part D are satisfied with their coverage. That is an unprecedented satisfaction rate for such an important program. I am particularly pleased that more than 176,000 South Carolinians are enjoying the benefits of Part D. “Moreover, government involvement would likely limit access to medications and restrict the development of new treatments. “As USA Today recently editorialized: ’The public would be best served if the new Congress conducts in-depth oversight to gather the facts, rather than rushing through legislation within 100 hours to fix something that isn't necessarily broken.’ “I urge my colleagues to protect Part D and vote against H.R. 4.” ###
01.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 11, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) DEMOCRATS’ 100 HOUR PLAN Wilson Supports Sanctity of Life Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding H.R. 3, the “Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007”: “The bill we are today considering disregards our inalienable right to life as well as recent medical breakthroughs. Just this week, Wake Forest and Harvard Medical Schools released a new study highlighting the potential of amniotic stem cells for research purposes. In fact, these stem cells were said to hold ’much the same promise’ as embryonic stem cells. “Unfortunately, Democrats are choosing to run roughshod over the legislative process and force through an irresponsible piece of legislation. Were we given the opportunity to examine these new findings in committee and hear scientific testimony, I am confident we could forge a compromise that progresses medical research while protecting unborn embryos.” ###
01.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 10, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) DEMOCRATS’ 100 HOUR PLAN Wilson Supports Republican Alternative to Democrats’ Irresponsible Minimum Wage Increase Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, today released the following statement regarding Democrats’ irresponsible minimum wage increase. “Circumventing market forces to mandate an arbitrary federal minimum wage increase is bad economic policy. If it is to be done, however, we must offer protections for America’s small businesses. Refusing to do so will ultimately hurt the very workers it intends to help. “When the minimum wage is increased, costs on small businesses increase as well. As a result, business owners will be forced to cut entry-level jobs and hire fewer workers to avoid incurring additional expenses. Republicans are seeking to provide relief for these businesses by offering alternative healthcare plans and tax incentives. “Unfortunately, House Democratic leadership has shunned the proposal supported by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, President Bush, and House Republicans. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support the Republican alternative, which will ensure businesses receive the protections they need and our economy continues to thrive.” ###
01.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 10, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Prosecution of Border Patrol Agents Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today joined Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and House Republicans in calling for Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez to allow Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean to remain free on bond pending appeal. Wilson released the following statement: “At a time when our borders are being assaulted by those seeking to illegally enter our country, the prosecution of these men directly undermines America’s ability to protect herself. “Our border agents risk their lives daily to uphold our immigration laws and defend our borders. If the conviction of Ramos and Compean is an indication of how our government will repay them, we can be certain good men and women will soon flee the ranks of border patrol service. “I urge Attorney General Gonzalez to allow these men to go free on bail while the appeals process is underway. We must stand with our nation’s heroes - not the criminals who disregard our laws.” Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were guarding the Mexican border near El Paso on February 17, 2005, when they intercepted a van carrying 743 pounds of marijuana. When the van’s driver attempted to escape into Mexico, the agents fired upon him. Following this exchange, the Justice Department sent investigators into Mexico, tracked down the drug smuggler, and offered him immunity in exchange for his testimony against Ramos and Compean. ###
01.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 10, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Reacts to President Bush’s Iraq Speech Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) tonight released the following statement after President George W. Bush addressed the nation on the path forward in Iraq: “Victory in Iraq is our only option. President Bush tonight laid out his plan for realizing victory and pledged United States’ support - contingent upon the Iraqis’ commitment to step-up their efforts toward achieving stability. “This plan will require more of our brave soldiers to join with Iraqi Security Forces to quell the violence in Baghdad. “Last week, I joined with House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Duncan Hunter and 26 other House Republicans in encouraging the President to move more Iraqi forces into Baghdad. I was pleased to hear this is exactly what will happen. Through combat experience, Iraqi forces will mature and will more quickly assume full control of Iraq’s security.” ###
01.09.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 9, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) DEMOCRATS’ 100 HOUR PLAN Wilson Votes to Protect National Security Programs Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding the passage of H.R. 1, “Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007”: “The security of our nation should not be politicized, thus I had hoped to support this bill. After review, however, I found certain provisions quite troubling. Since the Minority was not given the opportunity to vet the legislation in committee or propose amendments, no adjustments could be made to its final form. “Republicans attempted to strip the most troubling of provisions - language suggesting a critical national security program be authorized by the United Nations. “Unfortunately, when this effort failed, I could not support the overall bill.” ###
01.09.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 9, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) DEMOCRATS’ 100 HOUR PLAN Wilson Statement on “Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007” Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding Democrats’ proposal to implement the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations: “When the 9/11 Commission issued its report detailing recommendations for protecting our nation from future terrorist attacks, the Republican-led House went to work. Since that time, 39 of the 41 recommendations have been enacted - largely over the objections of House Democrats. “Despite the fact that the remaining two recommendations were deemed to be ill-advised, Democrats recklessly proclaimed they would enact all initiatives if elected to the Majority. Now that the time has come, Democrats agree with Republicans, and they will not seek to implement these recommendations. “Our national security is too important an issue to be politicized. Democrats must be held accountable for political grandstanding.” Despite campaigning on the promise to “pass all the recommendations made by the bipartisan and independent 9/11 Commission,” Democrats opposed the same recommendations under a Republican-led House: 152 Democrats voted against the REAL ID Act; 162 Democrats voted against the Military Commissions Act; 125 Democrats voted against the 9/11 Recommendations Implementation Act; and 120 Democrats voted against the Homeland Security Act of 2002. ###
01.08.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 8, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Announces New District Staffers Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced the addition of two staffers to the Second Congressional District’s Midlands and Lowcountry offices. “I am pleased to welcome three new members onto the Second Congressional District’s team. I have worked with both of them in different capacities, and I am confident they will be great resources for constituents,” Wilson said. Allen Aimar will replace Ted Felder as special assistant in the Lowcountry. A native of Beaufort County, Aimar served for four years in the United States Army and spent eight months in Baghdad, Iraq. Upon graduating from the University of Washington in Seattle, Aimar returned to South Carolina and joined the Joe Wilson For Congress Re-Election Campaign. Preston Grisham has joined the Midlands office as special assistant after managing the Joe Wilson For Congress Re-Election Campaign. Grisham is a native of Charleston and graduated from the University of South Carolina. He previously served as Assistant Director of Regional Development in the University’s Development office. ###
01.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 4, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Democrats Say One Thing, Do Another Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement regarding the Democrats’ first 100 hours: “The old adage ’Hope springs eternal’ is one of my favorites. As Democrats prepare for their first 100 hours of legislative rule, it appears my hopes for fair and open governance will be quelled. “When Congressman John Boehner campaigned for Majority Leader last year, he pledged to make the legislative process more open and always guarantee the Minority the right to offer substitute amendments. As Leader Boehner noted, offering choice allows the public to decide which proposals they favor. “Unfortunately, the public will not have the opportunity to hear Republican alternatives to Democratic proposals during the first weeks of the 110th Congress. It is my hope this move is not indicative of the coming two years. After all, when the first 100 hours come to a close, eternal hope remains.” ###
01.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 4, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Supports Proposal to Protect Families’ Pocketbooks Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today supported Republican efforts to protect American families from tax increases. Wilson released the following statement regarding the proposal: “For the past several years, our economy has seen unprecedented growth. Following the 2003 tax cuts, more than 7 million payroll jobs have been created. Just yesterday, the Dow Industrial Average reached a new all-time high. “The robust state of our economy is a direct result of Republican efforts to keep taxes low and decrease government spending. I was pleased to vote today in favor of a motion to prohibit Democrats from frivolously raising American workers’ taxes. “American families and businesses should not starve for Washington’s gluttony.” Under Republican rules, a three-fifths supermajority was needed to enact tax hikes. The motion to commit was intended to prevent a Democratic Rules Committee from repealing this barrier. ###
01.03.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 3, 2007 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Minority Bill of Rights Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today joined House Republicans in calling for Speaker Nancy Pelosi to uphold a proposal she crafted in 2004 that will allow the Minority Party to fully participate in the legislative process. Wilson released the following statement: “After trumpeting minority rights for the past 12 years, Nancy Pelosi has an opportunity to promote her own proposals. Democrats should not thrust a liberal agenda on the American people by blocking Republican participation in the legislative process. In my legislative career, I have served in the Minority and the Majority, and I know the process can be open. “I urge Speaker Pelosi to extend the same rights to Republicans she fought for when in the Minority.” The Minority Bill of Rights ensures the 110th Congress will move forward by encouraging honest, open legislative debate instead of stifling the voices of the minority party Among other measures, the resolution says: ò Bills should normally be considered under a procedure that allows open, full, and fair debate consisting of a full amendment process that grants all members the right to offer amendments or substitutes; ò Bills should only come to the Floor after full hearings, open subcommittee and committee markups; ò Members should be allowed a full 24 hours to examine bills and conference reports before they come to the floor; and ò Rules governing debate must be reported before 10 p.m. for a bill to be considered the next day. ###
12.29.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 29, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Execution of Saddam Hussein COLUMBIA - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) tonight released the following statement after the execution of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein: “The execution of Saddam Hussein is justice for the Iraqi people. During a visit to ancient Babylon, I saw the killing fields of Saddam - fields where women and infants were bused to open pits, mercilessly murdered, and anonymously buried. “Saddam should always be condemned as a dictator who harbored and supported terrorists and used chemical weapons to murder his own people. “Iraq should use this milestone to promote a stable civil society that assists world peace.” ###
12.28.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 28, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Unveils Agenda for 110th Congress Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today unveiled his legislative agenda for the 110th session of Congress. Wilson held three press conferences throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional District to announce these priorities. “As the 110th Congress gets underway, the safety and security of South Carolina families remain my top priorities. I look forward to working with our new Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and my Congressional colleagues to map the best path forward in Iraq and keep our homeland free from attack. “While remaining diligently focused on a strong foreign policy, several domestic issues will also command attention. As a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, I will be involved in reauthorizing the No Child Left Behind Act and advocating for Association Health Plans. “As we have seen in recent months, low-tax, pro-growth initiatives stimulate the economy and create more jobs. Thus, I remain committed to permanently extending the 2003 tax cuts and supporting responsible fiscal policies.” Wilson’s Agenda for the 110th Congress National Security - remain on the offense in the Global War on Terrorism; accelerate training of Iraqi Security Forces Education Policy - reauthorize Higher Education Act and No Child Left Behind Economy - continue to advocate for pro-growth, fiscally responsible policies Healthcare - push for Association Health Plans; continue successful implementation of Medicare Part D ###
12.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 27, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Passing of President Gerald Ford COLUMBIA - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement on the passing of President Gerald Ford: “Today our nation mourns the passing of her 38th President. In an unprecedented time of political crisis and division, President Gerald Ford assumed power and unified the nation. “He was a man of character who brought trust back to the White House. He should always be appreciated for bringing people together and helping us to understand that we have more similarities than differences. “My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Betty and their family.” ###
12.21.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 21, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Presents Congressional Fire Services Awards Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today presented Congressional Fire Services Institute Certificates to twenty-four outstanding emergency service personnel at the Columbia Fire Department. “Our first responders and emergency service personnel put their lives at risk everyday for their fellow men. These individuals should be commended for their dedication to their jobs, their families, and their communities. “Columbia is well-served by these twenty-four men and the knowledge and experience they bring to the department here,” Wilson stated. Engineer Timothy D. Allen, Chief of Training William A. Axson, Captain Frank E. Baughman, Engineer Charles K. Boone, Captain Thomas C. Brown, Captain Ronald F. Davis, Jr., Senior Firefighter Michael A. DeNicola, Captain Arnold P. Dowey, Senior Firefighter Steven Fields, Captain Mark O. George, Engineer Ken A. Gypin, Battalion Chief James E. Helms, Jr., Engineer Robert C. Joyner, Senior Firefighter Matthew K. Lam, Senior Firefighter Adam B. Lostetter, Firefighter Chad E. Peebles, Captain Robert C. Rabon, Captain Brian K. Raines, Engineer James A. Smith, Captain Brannon K. Taylor, Engineer Philip L. Thompson, Engineer William P. Truesdale, Jr., Engineer Stephen R. Turner, and Senior Firefighter Bryan E. Wingard each received a Congressional Fire Services award. The Congressional Fire Services Institute's Certificate Program is an opportunity to recognize members of the fire and emergency services and fire departments for performing services to their community. Certificates can be requested for community service, heroism, length of service, and in memorial. ###
12.18.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 18, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Secretary of Defense Robert Gates Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement following the swearing-in of Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. “Secretary Gates has a long history of service to our country. Having served in the CIA and the National Security Council, Mr. Gates is well informed of the threats our nation faces. “As we seek to move forward in Iraq, I am confident Secretary Gates will bring a new perspective to the Administration. I look forward to working with him.” ###
12.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 13, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Announces Grant for Hardeeville Fire & Rescue Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced that Hardeeville Fire and Rescue has been awarded $43,406 through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. “With Jasper County’s continued growth, it is imperative our fire and rescue personnel have the means to adequately respond in a time of emergency. These funds will ensure Hardeeville Fire and Rescue remains well equipped and prepared to protect the Hardeeville community,” Wilson said. Fire Chief John Ekaitis said the funds will be used to purchase self-contained breathing apparatuses, protective clothing, pagers, and radios. “We’re very excited about it. It’s an honor to receive this grant,” Ekaitis stated. ###
12.08.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 8, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: US-India Nuclear Deal Good for All Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, today released the following statement regarding final passage of the US-India nuclear agreement. The bill, officially named the “Henry J. Hyde United States and India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act of 2006,” passed by an overwhelming majority of 330-59. The counterpart legislation is currently pending in the Senate. “I am pleased we have taken the last step toward solidifying a civil nuclear agreement with India. This bill is vital to continuing a prosperous relationship between our countries and moving our non-proliferation efforts forward. “While it appeared for sometime this agreement would not come to fruition, the dedication of Chairman Henry Hyde, Ranking Member Tom Lantos, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, and Chairman Richard Lugar made its passage possible. “I look forward to President Bush signing the bill into law so we may strengthen relations with our Indian allies.” ###
11.29.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 29, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Presents Congressional Fire Services Awards Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) on Monday presented Congressional Fire Services Institute Certificates to eight outstanding emergency service personnel at Fort Jackson’s Emergency Services Center. “Our first responders and emergency service personnel put their lives at risk everyday for their fellow men. These individuals should be commended for their dedication to their jobs, their families, and their communities. “Fort Jackson is well-served by these eight men and the knowledge and experience they bring to the Emergency Services Center,” Wilson stated. Thomas Collier, Edward Doyle, Vernon Grant, Drill Sergeant David Marcus, Robert Nichols, Robert Ormsby, Larry Robinson, and Theodore Simon each received a Congressional Fire Services award. The Congressional Fire Services Institute's Certificate Program is an opportunity to recognize members of the fire and emergency services and fire departments for performing services to their community. Certificates can be requested for community service, heroism, length of service, and in memorial. ###
11.17.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 17, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Praises Senate Passage of US-India Nuclear Deal Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, today released the following statement regarding Senate passage of the US-India nuclear agreement: “After months of delays and deliberations, I am pleased the Senate yesterday overwhelmingly approved the US-India nuclear agreement. Passage of this bill is vital to continuing a prosperous relationship with India and moving our non-proliferation efforts forward. “Majority Leader Bill Frist and Chairman Richard Lugar are to be commended for their commitment to this legislation. They worked tirelessly to ensure this agreement was passed before the Senate adjourned for the year. “I am hopeful the House and Senate can reconcile our differences in a timely manner and send this bill to President Bush.” ###
11.17.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 17, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Bids Farewell to Longtime Chief of Staff Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced that his Chief of Staff Eric Dell will soon be completing his tenure and preparing to enter the private sector. “Eric and I have worked together for the past fourteen years. More than a business partner and an employee, Eric is a friend. His counsel and leadership in the office will be greatly missed, but I will always appreciate his service to constituents. “Eric leaves behind a competent staff, and I am confident the transition will be smooth. I look forward to continuing to work on behalf of South Carolina’s Second Congressional District with an able and committed team,” Wilson stated. Dell expressed his appreciation for Wilson and his gratitude for the people of South Carolina: “It is an honor to have served Congressman Wilson and the citizens of the Second District for the past five years. I have the utmost respect for Congressman Wilson and his dedication to public service.” Dell hails from Ridgeland, South Carolina, and is the son of Wayne and Ouida Dell. He received a B.A. and J.D. from the University of South Carolina. He previously served as an intern to U.S. Senator Strom Thurmond, managed the reelection campaigns of the late U.S. Congressman Floyd D. Spence, and served as campaign manager for Wilson’s 2001 special election. He also served as Wilson’s Chief of Staff in the South Carolina State Senate. Dell is personable and experienced and is well regarded in South Carolina political circles. Dino Teppara, currently Legislative Director, will replace Dell as Chief of Staff and Counsel. Micki Work, currently Senior Legislative Assistant, will replace Teppara as Legislative Director. Legislative Correspondent Melissa Chandler will move into a Legislative Assistant position. Scheduler George Harper will replace Chandler. Paul Callahan, Kim Olive, Amber McDaniel, and Tia Williams will remain in their current positions. ###
11.16.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 16, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson to Push for SquadronsWill Work to Bring Unit to MCAS - Beaufort Congressman Joe Wilson today announced that he will work to secure squadrons currently stationed at Naval Air Station (NAS) - Oceana, Virginia Beach, Virginia, for the Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) - Beaufort. The Department of Defense earlier this year announced it would realign Oceana due to encroachment. “MCAS - Beaufort is the best positioned base on the East coast to receive Oceana’s Strike Fighter Hornet planes. Beaufort has ample capacity and is already home to Hornets, thus increasing training and servicing efficiency,” Wilson stated. The Beaufort Regional Chamber of Commerce’s Military Affairs Committee is working with Wilson’s office to secure the squadrons for MCAS - Beaufort. Committee Chair John Payne stated, “The Beaufort area community understands the importance of the military to our economic prosperity. Furthermore, we understand what military service means to America and would welcome these squadrons with open arms.” Virginia Beach was previously warned that growth and development around the base must be addressed. Last year, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission determined that the city had not sufficiently stopped the encroachment; therefore, the squadrons would be relocated. Cecil Field in Jacksonville, Florida, was under consideration for the squadrons, but local officials have targeted the facility for economic development projects and discouraged the relocation. Additionally, Floridians recently voted down a ballot initiative to reopen Cecil Field. ###
11.10.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 10, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Announces Fort Jackson as Site for Future National Cemetery Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced that Fort Jackson has been selected as the location for South Carolina’s new national veterans’ cemetery. The Department of Veterans Affairs Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs William Tuerk joined Congressman Wilson for the announcement. “The selection of Fort Jackson for the new national cemetery is wonderful news for all South Carolina veterans. The men and women who have honorably served our country deserve a final resting place close to their family and friends. This cemetery will ensure South Carolina is able to serve the needs of its entire veterans’ population. “I am pleased the VA has approved the site location and we can now move forward with the next phase in making this cemetery a reality.” History of Fort Jackson Site Selection: In March 2003, Congressman Jim Gerlach introduced H.R. 1516, the “National Cemetery Expansion Act of 2003.” Congressman Wilson was a cosponsor of this bill. This legislation directed the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish six new veterans’ cemeteries, one of which was to be located in Greenville/Columbia, South Carolina. H.R. 1516 was passed in the House on July 21, 2003, by a 408 - 0 vote. On October 10, 2003, the Senate passed the bill by Unanimous Consent. President Bush signed H.R. 1516 into law on November 11, 2003. On February 21 and March 6, 2006, Congressman Wilson wrote the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs in support of Fort Jackson as the site location for the national cemetery. Wilson invited the Under Secretary to tour the site and meet with local veterans. Fort Jackson was selected as the “most favorable” of three possible sites in March. In July, Under Secretary Tuerk visited Columbia to tour Fort Jackson. In October, Secretary James Nicholson signed the paperwork designating Fort Jackson as the official location for South Carolina’s new cemetery. ###
11.03.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 3, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Touts New Job Numbers Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, today made the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor’s report that 92,000 jobs were created in October: “Day after day and month after month, American families continue to benefit from Republican’s responsible economic policies - despite Democratic refusal to acknowledge our economy’s strength and the mainstream media’s continual failure to report its growth. “Republicans are committed to maintaining a low-tax, pro-growth environment that will foster job creation and wage growth. Democrats, on the other hand, have publicly stated they will raise taxes on families and small businesses. “American workers will not be fooled. They rejected Democrats’ tax-and-spend ways years ago and continue to oppose them today.” Additional October Economic Statistics ? Revisions show an extra 139,000 payroll jobs were added in August and September ? The unemployment rate dropped to 4.4% - the lowest rate in 5 ? years ? More than 6.8 million payroll jobs have been added in the past 3 years ###
10.31.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 31, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Joins with Fellow House Republicans in Condemning John Kerry’s Remarks Republican Members call for immediate apology Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today joined with fellow House Republicans in condemning Senator John Kerry’s disparaging remarks about U.S. troops. Wilson and his colleagues wrote Kerry a letter demanding an immediate apology. “As a 31-year veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces and the father of four sons actively serving in the military, I am appalled by Senator Kerry’s remarks directed at our soldiers. Instead of praising our men and women in uniform as brave patriots who daily risk their lives in defense of our freedoms, Senator Kerry dismissed them as educational delinquents. “Senator Kerry’s true character is revealed in these few words. He is no longer hiding his utter contempt for our military and our Commander-in-Chief. That he sees himself fit to lead our nation is a mockery to all who have served and defended her.” **Text of letter follows ** Senator John Kerry304 Russell Senate BuildingWashington, DC 20510 Dear Senator Kerry: We are writing to express our outrage over your recent disrespectful and condescending comments concerning our brave troops in Iraq. We demand that you offer a clear and simple apology, without caveat or explanation, to America’s finest. In case you don’t remember, you told a recent campaign audience, “You know education, if you make the most of it and you study hard and you do your homework and you make an effort to be smart, you can do well. If you don’t, you get stuck in Iraq.” We don’t know how many of our soldiers you have met, but they are the best and brightest that our nation has to offer and unlike you, Senator, they do not believe they are “stuck in Iraq.” Senator Kerry, it is bad enough that you disparage their mission at every chance you get, that you ignore any signs of progress or hope, that like the mainstream media you focus only on the bad news and ignore the good news that American troops and their Iraqi allies are bringing to Iraqi families every day, and that you offer no alternatives and no plan for victory in Iraq or in the larger War on Terror. Sadly, this seems to have become a pattern: blame America first and disparage the men and women who serve so bravely in our defense. We hope you will quickly and clearly apologize and in the future think about those who are in danger, so far away, so that we may remain free to exercise the freedoms here that they are bringing to millions of people over there. ###
10.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 26, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on New Jersey Supreme Court Ruling on Same-Sex Marriage Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement on yesterday’s ruling by the New Jersey Supreme Court on same-sex marriage: “This ruling is yet another example of activist judges run amuck and reaffirms why we so badly need the Federal Marriage Amendment. House Republicans in recent years have attempted to protect the sanctity of marriage by passing such legislation. Our efforts have been repeatedly thwarted by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and her cohorts. “Fortunately for South Carolinians, we do not have to abide by Mrs. Pelosi’s San Francisco ’values.’ We can take matters into our own hands. “Voters this November will have the opportunity to vote on an amendment to the state constitution that would define marriage as between one man and one woman. Passage of this amendment will prevent liberal judges from imposing their will upon us.” Federal Marriage Amendment Roll Call Votes H.J. Res. 106 - September 30, 2004; 227 - 186 (158 Democrats opposing) H.J. Res. 88 - July 18, 2006; 236 - 187 (159 Democrats opposing) ###
10.19.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 19, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Booming Economy Democrats cannot deny growth Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, today released the following statement after the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at an all-time high of 12,011: “Following yesterday’s showing of trading above 12,000 for the first time in history, the Dow today closed at another all-time high. While Democrats continue to bemoan Republican economic policies, American families are reaping the benefits. Earning higher wages and burdened with fewer taxes, American workers are thriving. “Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Charles Rangel recently stated that ’When [he] become[s] chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, we [Democrats] will have power over the entire tax system, Social Security system, pension system, Medicare and all international trade.’ “Given the Democrats’ tax-and-spend record, I cannot think of anything more frightening for the American people and their pocketbooks.” ###
10.18.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 18, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Our Economy is Surging Dow Hits 12,000 Mark Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, today released the following statement after the Dow Jones Industrial Average reached an all-time high of 12,000: “This morning, the U.S. stock market hit its highest ever trading mark. A surging market affects all Americans, whether directly or indirectly. A healthy economy creates jobs, fights inflation, drives down prices, and increases the quality of life nationwide. “Former President Bill Clinton’s slogan ’It’s the Economy, Stupid’ resonated with American families during his presidential campaign. Unfortunately, Mr. Clinton’s own party has failed Economics 101. “Republicans are committed to cutting taxes and decreasing government spending to ensure our growing economy continues to thrive. Capitol Hill Democrats, in contrast, will raise taxes on American families and drive down the stock market, thereby choking the life of our economy.” Capitol Hill Democrats on Taxes and Spending Charles Rangel, House Committee on Ways and Means ranking member: When asked what tax cuts he would consider allowing to expire, Rangel replied, “[E]verything has to be on the table.” “I’m not picking and choosing ... which of the president’s tax cuts at this time should be renewed.” Asked whether tax increases across the income spectrum would be considered, he replied, “No question about it.” - Congress Daily PM, September 26, 2006 Senator Hillary Clinton, presumed Democratic presidential frontrunner: “We’re saying that for America to get back on track, we’re probably going to cut that [tax cuts] short and not give it to you. We’re going to take things away from you on behalf of the common good.” - Associated Press, June 29, 2004 Nancy Pelosi, House Minority Leader: Asked if a Democrat-controlled House would raise taxes, Pelosi replied, “Well, you put everything on the table and you decide what are the priorities for the American people.” - NBC’s Meet the Press, May 7, 2006 ###
10.17.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 17, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Applauds Presidential Signing of Military Commissions Act Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after President George W. Bush signed into law the ’Military Commissions Act’: “With the signing of the ’Military Commissions Act,’ our nation is now better equipped to combat terrorist threats and bring justice to our enemies. This law will maintain our interrogation program and provide an avenue for trying suspected terrorists. In addition, it offers the men and women conducting interrogations the clarification they need to continue their jobs. “The importance of upholding strenuous interrogation methods cannot be stressed enough. The effectiveness of such programs - from the capture of 9/11 mastermind KSM to the foiling of numerous terrorist plots - has been proven time and time again. “Despite this overwhelming evidence, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and her caucus continue to block legislation strengthening national security. Instead of working to protect America from future terrorist attacks, Democrats are pandering to the ultra-liberal wing of their party.” ###
10.11.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 11, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Numbers Don’t Lie Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, today touted the success of Republican economic policies after the Bush Administration announced its revised deficit forecast. As announced today, the Fiscal Year 2006 budget deficit was $248 billion - drastically below the original forecast of $423 billion. The deficit has now been cut in half three years earlier than President Bush originally promised. “While Democrats continue to chatter about ’failed economic policies,’ our robust economy continues to produce results that fly in their faces. Republicans’ responsible fiscal initiatives have reduced the tax burden on working families, created a business-friendly environment, and set the stage for the record revenue growth of Fiscal Years 2005 and 2006.” Additional Deficit Statistics The FY2006 budget deficit was $248 billion/1.9 percent Of GDP - 0.4 percent below the 40-year average of 2.3 percent of GDP; President Bush’s goal of cutting the deficit in half by FY2009 from its FY2004 projected peak of $521 billion has been reached and surpassed three years ahead of time; and FY2005 revenues were 14.5 percent higher than the previous year and at $2.153 trillion were the largest in history. This year's revenues of $2.407 trillion were an 11.8 percent increase from FY2005. ###
10.11.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 11, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Condemns Democrat Subversion of Missile Defense Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on International Relations, today made the following statement regarding North Korea’s rogue nuclear program and Democrats’ efforts to delay America’s defense systems: “The possibility of a nuclear North Korea has become a reality. Kim Jong Il continues to defy the international community and has blatantly threatened ’physical’ measures should the United States impose punitive sanctions. “While Republicans in Congress are committed to protecting America and ensuring we are prepared to adequately deal with the threat of nuclear attacks, the Democrats’ record does not match their rhetoric. “Earlier this week, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi stated that a nuclear North Korea ’should be a first priority concern of the world.’ Ironically, Pelosi does not believe America should be prepared to defend itself against such a ’concern.’ Just three short years ago, Pelosi asserted the United States did not need a ’multi-billion-dollar national missile defense.’ “My mentor and predecessor, the late Congressman Floyd Spence, in the late 1990s led a Congressional crusade on behalf of missile defense funding. The Augusta Chronicle hailed his efforts as ’Paul Revere-type warnings.’ Fortunately for colonial Americans, Revere’s warnings of the encroaching Britains were heeded. Unfortunately for us, Congressman Spence’s have yet to be.” ###
10.06.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 6, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Hails Continued Economic Growth Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, today made the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor’s report that 51,000 jobs were created in September: “Today’s jobs report is more good news for American families. Gas prices have fallen dramatically. The stock market has reached all-time record highs. Wages are up and Americans are investing more money in their local economies. “With 51,000 jobs added to the workforce last month, September marked the 37th consecutive month of job growth. These numbers speak for themselves: American families are directly benefiting from Republican pro-growth policies.” Additional September Economic Statistics Revisions show an extra 60,000 payroll jobs were added in August The unemployment rate dropped to 4.6% in September More than 6.6 million payroll jobs have been added in the past 3 years, up from the previous estimate of 5.7 million According to Household Survey Data, 144.9 million Americans are employed, an all-time high ###
09.29.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 29, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Calls on Senate Democrats to Stop Obstruction Time is Running out for US-India Nuclear Deal Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, today released the following statement regarding the Senate’s delay in considering the US-India nuclear agreement: “I continue to be amazed by Democrat double-talk. Earlier this week, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid insisted that Republican in-fighting was the cause for delay on consideration of the US-India nuclear agreement. The fact is that Democrats have obstructed passage of this crucial agreement every step of the way. Prior to Republican-led passage in the House, Democrats made a last-ditch effort to defeat the measure. Led by Senator Reid, Senate Democrats are using the same tactics to eviscerate this important bill. “Sadly for the people of India, Democrats’ political maneuvering could prove costly. If not approved this weekend, Senate Republican leaders will have an opportunity to bring up the measure in a lame-duck session. If Democrats continue their obstructionist ways, implementation of this agreement will be pushed to 2007. “It is no wonder that more Indian Americans are finding a friend in the Republican Party as they continue to be alienated by Democrats.” History of Democrat Obstructionism on US-India Nuclear Agreement Obstruction by House Democrats: A number of House Democrats cosigned a letter to Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi expressing their concerns and opposition to this legislation; Five Democrats introduced so-called “poison pill” amendments, which if adopted, would make the legislation unacceptable to the Indian government, during mark-up in the International Relations Committee. All five amendments failed; Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced H. Con. Res. 318, which expresses opposition to the legislation. This bill was cosponsored by 21 Democrats; Congressman Markey wrote an op-ed, published in Roll Call on April 24, entitled “India Deal Is a Nonproliferation Loss”; Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) opposed the agreement in a commentary published in The San Francisco Chronicle on July 25 - the day before House passage of the bill - entitled “Exception should not be the rule for India nuclear deal”; 110 Democrats opposed H. Res. 947, the rule to bring up consideration of H.R. 5682, the “United States and India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act of 2006”; H.Amdt. 1194 and H.Amdt. 1195, two “poison pill” amendments, received the support of 129 and 146 Democrats, respectively; and 169 Democrats supported a motion to recommit the bill back to committee. Obstruction by Senate Democrats: No Senate Democrats cosponsored S. 2429, the original Senate version of the agreement; Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) introduced a “poison pill” amendment intended to kill the bill during mark-up in the Foreign Relations Committee. The amendment failed; Former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) wrote in opposition to the U.S.-India nuclear agreement in a May 24 op-ed in The Wall Street Journal entitled “Nuclear Pig in a Poke” and, finally, Former Democrat President Jimmy Carter penned an op-ed on March 29 against the legislation in The Washington Post entitled “A Dangerous Deal With India.” ###
09.28.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 28, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Announces Grant for the Center for Fathers and Families Promotes Responsible Fatherhood Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today announced the South Carolina Center for Fathers and Families has been awarded nearly $450,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Wilson visited the Center during his August district bus tour. “I have visited with fathers involved in this program and have heard first-hand the difference the Center for Fathers and Families has made in their lives. Through peer support groups and encouragement from mentors and directors, these men have become responsible fathers and citizens. “I am pleased the Department of Health and Human Services recognizes the impact the Center is having on the Columbia community and has seen fit to provide funds for its growth and continuation.” ###
09.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 27, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Hails Passage of Military Commissions Act Will Preserve CIA Interrogation Program and Protect American Troops Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement upon passage of H.R. 6166, the Military Commissions Act. The bill passed by a vote of 253 - 168. “After thorough discussion and negotiations, I am pleased the House, Senate, and the White House reached a workable compromise on the interrogation and prosecution of illegal enemy combatants. The overwhelming nature by which this bill was passed illustrates its importance in protecting American families and winning the Global War on Terrorism. “We cannot forget that these terrorists seek to rob us of our freedoms. They have declared war on the United States and the entire modern world. “While the United States never has and never will condone torture, the use of strenuous interrogation methods is imperative in gathering intelligence to protect our homeland. Concrete evidence proves that such methods produced intelligence leading to the capture of KSM - the mastermind of 9/11. Consequently, KSM supplied interrogators with information about planned attacks. For these reasons, I support the continued use of strenuous interrogation. “With the clarification of Common Article 3, we are providing our men and women with the guidance they need to appropriately do their jobs. By defining impermissible actions, we can make certain that information gathered during interrogation can be used to prosecute terrorists and bring them to justice.” ###
09.22.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 22, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Cosponsors Resolution Condemning Chavez Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on International Relations, today cosponsored H.Res. 1033, a resolution condemning Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez’s remarks before the United Nations General Assembly. “According to Chavez, President Bush is ’the devil,’ and the United States is a nation of elitists who exploit weaker people around the world. Ironically, these proclamations were made on U.S. soil in front of the United Nations General Assembly. “While we cannot keep this madman from entering our country, we do not have to tolerate his inflammatory and degrading remarks. It is disgraceful that he used the UN stage to levy personal attacks on our Commander-in-Chief and exploit Venezuela’s membership in the UN. “As the United States stands with democracies around the world, we will stand with Venezuela. I hope the Venezuelan people will soon turn from Chavez’ rule and wholeheartedly embrace democracy.” ###
09.21.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 21, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Congress is Working to Combat Illegal Immigration Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement upon House passage of border security legislation: “Following passage of the ’Secure Fence Act’ last week, House Republicans continue to move forward with our promise to secure the borders. The three bills passed today address such critical issues as ending ’catch and release,’ reaffirming the authority of local law enforcement to voluntarily enforce immigration laws, and expediting the deportation of alien criminals and gang members. “Senate Democrats are finding the Reid-Kennedy amnesty plan is a non-starter with the American public. As a result, they considered the ’Secure Fence Act’ this week, and I encourage my Senate colleagues to quickly approve it and the remaining House border security package. “House Republicans listened and are acting. Now it’s time for the Senate to follow suit.” House border security legislation includes the following: ò H.R. 4830, the “Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006” - Unanimously passed by a vote of 422 - 0, this bill enacts criminal penalties for individuals who knowingly construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. ò H.R. 6094, the “Community Protection Act of 2006” - Overwhelmingly passed by a vote of 328 - 95, this bill ensures that dangerous illegal immigrants who cannot be deported will not be released into society; expedites the removal of alien criminals; and toughens laws regarding detention and deportation of alien gang members. ò H.R. 6095, the “Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006” - Passed in the House by a vote of 277 - 140, this bill reaffirms the inherent authority of state and local law enforcement to voluntarily enforce immigration laws; increases the prosecution of alien smugglers by authorizing an increase in the number of attorneys prosecuting alien smuggling cases and establishing uniform guidelines for the prosecution of alien smugglers; and imposes “catch and return” versus “catch and release.” ###
09.21.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 21, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Republican House Members: Iraqi Government Continues Making Great Strides The Iraqi province of Dhi Qar today became the second province turned over to full Iraqi control. In response, Republican House Members released the following statement: “With Dhi Qar today assuming full responsibility for its law enforcement and civil operations, the Iraqis are continuing to prove they are capable of securing their own country. “Dhi Qar is now the second of eighteen provinces to achieve independent status. In the weeks and months ahead, Coalition forces will continue working to ready other provinces for this transition. Soon, the world will see a fully functioning democracy in Iraq, and America and the world will be safer for it.” The following statement was released by Reps. Joe Wilson (SC-02), Kay Granger (TX-12), Pete Sessions (TX-32), Mike Conaway (TX-11), Michael McCaul (TX-10), Henry Brown (SC-01), Tom Cole (OK-04), Virginia Foxx (NC-05), Scott Garrett (NJ-05), Sam Graves (MO-06), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18), Adam Putnam (FL-12), Todd Akin (MO-02) and Gresham Barrett (SC-03). ###
09.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 15, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Praises President’s Commitment to Winning the Global War on Terrorism ’The interrogation of terrorists is vital in our efforts.’ Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Service Committee, today issued the following statement regarding President Bush’s efforts to clarify Article 3 of the Geneva Convention as it relates to terrorist interrogation. Congressman Wilson served 31 years in the Army National Guard, 28 of which he served as Staff Judge Advocate. “The interrogation of terrorists is vital in our efforts to win the Global War on Terrorism. The CIA program has produced intelligence that has foiled terrorist plots and saved countless lives. KSM - the Mastermind of 9/11 - was arrested as a result of information garnered from the program. “I am most concerned about protecting our men and women who execute the program. If we do not establish the boundaries, someone else will. We do not want to leave our men and women vulnerable to prosecution under a vague international law. “The President is properly approaching this issue, and I am pleased the House Armed Services Committee this week approved the ’Military Commissions Act.’ I am hopeful the Senate and the House will soon reach a compromise.” ###
09.14.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 14, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Praises Passage of the “Secure Fence Act”House Republicans Committed to Moving Forward on Border Security Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 6061, the “Secure Fence Act.” The bill passed by a vote of 283-138. “During the August district work period, I hosted three town hall meetings to examine the issues of illegal immigration and border security. My colleagues held border security field hearings around the country. Now that we are back in Washington, I am pleased Majority Leader John Boehner and the Republican leadership are proving their commitment to moving forward on this vital issue. “With passage of the ’Secure Fence Act,’ House Republicans are taking the first of several steps toward addressing illegal immigration. “Senate Democrats are offering amnesty when Americans want security. It is time we act to curtail the flow of illegal immigration, and we must begin at the border.” The “Secure Fence Act” will strengthen operational control of all borders and ports through additional fencing and surveillance. Specifically the bill: Authorizes more than 700 miles of two-layered reinforced fencing along the southwest border; Mandates that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) maintain operational control over the entire border through a “virtual fence” that deploys cameras, ground sensors, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), and integrated surveillance technology; Requires DHS to provide necessary authority to border personnel to disable fleeing vehicles; and Requires DHS to assess vulnerabilities on the northern border. Later today, Republican leaders are expected to unveil additional border security measures to be considered in the coming weeks. ###
09.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 13, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: We Will Never Forget September 11th Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today issued the following statement upon passage of H.Res. 994, a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives on the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attacks launched against the United States on September 11, 2001. The resolution passed by a vote of 395-22-1. “On September 11, 2001, we were brought face to face with an elusive and dangerous enemy. As the world watched, America responded to these heinous attacks with a united front. We could no longer pretend that our oceans protected us from evil. We were determined to find the terrorists and bring them to justice. We would leave no rock unturned. “While the face of America was strong, the hearts of Americans were heavy. Nearly 3,000 people lost their lives that fateful day. The families of those who lost loved ones continue to grieve, and America grieves with them. “Five years later, we must maintain our resolve to defeat extremism worldwide and protect American families here at home.” ###
09.11.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 11, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Remembers Fifth Anniversary of 9/11 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released the following statement remembering the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against the United States: “Five years ago, we experienced a tragedy unparalleled in our nation’s history. We were suddenly made aware of our vulnerability to a new and dangerous enemy. Without warning, our way of life and the freedoms we cherish were under attack. “Charity poured from the hearts of every American and from allies around the world. Fire fighters and law enforcement personnel heroically put their lives at risk to save their countrymen. Democrats and Republicans alike stood on the steps of the U.S. Capitol building and sang ’God Bless America.’ We were united in the resolve to defeat those who terrorized us. “We remember today - as we do everyday - the families of those who lost loved ones and our men and women in uniform who are bravely fighting to protect us. May God bless them.” ###
09.07.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 7, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Republican House Members Applaud Progress of Iraqi Government Republican House Members today applauded the continued progress of the Iraqi government on its path to full independence. Iraq today assumed full control of the Iraqi armed forces, putting the prime minister in direct control of the military. “Today’s transfer of the Iraqi military to direct Iraqi government control is a major step toward Iraq’s full independence. Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is committed to achieving a stable democratic society in Iraq. A competent military is essential for success. “With two thirds of the Iraqi Army's combat units in the lead, we are encouraged that Iraqi Security Forces are assuming more responsibility for the security of their country. As these brave Iraqis continue to take the lead against those who seek to deprive their countrymen of the rights they have fought to secure, we will continue to stand with them. “Success in Iraq is vital to world stability and security in the United States. Today’s transfer is one step further to achieving victory in Iraq.” The following statement was released by Reps. Joe Wilson (SC-02), Kay Granger (TX-12), Randy Kuhl (NY-29), Doc Hastings (WA-04), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), Sam Graves (MO-06), Henry Brown (SC-01), Steve King (IA-05), Virginia Foxx (NC-05), John Carter (TX-31), Michael Burgess (TX-26), Gresham Barrett (SC-03), Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Ander Crenshaw (FL-04), Mike Conaway (TX-11), Mike Pence (IN-06), Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18). ###
09.05.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 5, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Commends President’s Commitment to Winning the War on Terror Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on International Relations, today commended President George W. Bush for his continued commitment to winning the War on Terror and protecting American families. President Bush today released his updated National Strategy For Combating Terrorism (NSCT). “In the face of continuing terrorist threats and hostilities toward the Western way of life, President Bush remains committed to staying the course and protecting American families. President Bush believes, as do I, that we must face the enemy abroad so we do not face them on our homeland. “President Bush today laid out the United States’ strategy for defeating al-Qaeda and making the world safe for democracy. I share the President’s belief that the advancement of freedom and democracy is the key to eradicating extremism. “While some disagree with the President and would choose instead to pacify this brutal enemy, I believe the majority of Americans understand the importance of maintaining our resolve to defeating terrorism.” ###
09.01.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 1, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson: Economy Remains Strong Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, today made the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor’s report that 128,000 jobs were created in August: “Today’s jobs report reiterates what I saw last month while traveling throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional District: our economy remains strong. Due to Republicans’ responsible fiscal policies, workers are keeping more of their money. In turn, they are investing more money in their local economies. “The unemployment rate dipped to 4.7% - one of the lowest points since 2001. Yet just this week, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi stated, ’Our economy is moving in the wrong direction, and President Bush and the Republicans in Congress are woefully out of touch with this fact.’ “I suppose Mrs. Pelosi and her Democratic cohorts would be happy if fewer people were added to the workforce and more Americans were unemployed. Fortunately for American workers, they’re not the ones setting economic policy.” ###
08.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 15, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Announces 2006 District Bus Tour Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) on Monday, August 21, will embark on his annual 5-day district bus tour. Congressman Wilson and his staff will travel throughout South Carolina’s Second Congressional District to visit with constituents, discuss their concerns, and share news of his efforts in Congress. Monday, August 21 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Sunset Grill - 1214 Sunset Boulevard, West Columbia9 a.m. Tour of Francis Mack Primary School - 161 Gaston Street, Gaston10 a.m. Visit to Sugarbaker’s Corner Caf? - 290 S. Monmouth Avenue, Swansea10:45 a.m. Visit to Wagener Town Hall - 111 Railroad Avenue, West, Wagener11:30 a.m. Tour of Rawls Family Farm - 824 Fairview Road, Pelion12:30 p.m. Lunch at Shealy’s BBQ House - 340 East Columbia Avenue, Batesburg1:45 p.m. Visit to Lexington Town Hall - 111 Maiden Lane, Lexington2:30 p.m. Visit to Irmo Chamber of Commerce - 1246 Lake Murray Boulevard, Irmo3:30 p.m. Visit to Chapin Chamber of Commerce - 302 Columbia Avenue, Chapin5 p.m. Tour of Lexington Medical Center - 811 West Main Street, Lexington Tuesday, August 22 7:30 a.m. Breakfast at Lizard’s Thicket - 818 Elmwood Avenue, Columbia8:30 a.m. Visit at Keenen Development Associates - 1301 Gervais Street, Suite 803, Columbia9:20 a.m. Reach Out and Read - Moncrief Hospital, 4500 Stuart Street - Fort Jackson10 a.m. Tour of DOD Polygraph Institute - 7540 Pickens Avenue, Fort Jackson11 a.m. Speech to SCORE - Fort Jackson Officers Club1:30 p.m. Tour of Harvest Hope Food Bank - 2220 Shop Road, Columbia3 p.m. Tour of Center for Fathers and Families - 1821 Hampton Street, Columbia Wednesday, August 23 9 a.m. Visit to North Town Hall - 9305 North Road, North10:30 a.m. Tour of Milliken & Company - 955 Jackson Street, Barnwell12 p.m. Visit to Collum Lumber Mill - 1723 Barnwell Highway, Allendale1:15 p.m. Tour of Le Creuset - 114 Bob Gifford Boulevard, Early Branch2:30 p.m. Visit to Orangeburg Community Development Corporation - Orangeburg County Chamber of Commerce,155 Riverside Drive, Orangeburg3:45 p.m. Tour of Alaglass Pools - 165 Sweet Bay Road, St. Matthews Thursday, August 24 7:15 a.m. Meeting with Beaufort Regional Chamber Minority Advisory Council - Blackstone’s of Beaufort, 205 Scott Street, Beaufort8:30 a.m. Tour of Hunting Island State Park - 2555 Sea Island Parkway, Hunting Island10 a.m. Jumpstart’s Read for the Record - Shell Point Elementary, 81 Savannah Highway, Beaufort10:45 a.m. Visit to Beaufort Memorial Hospital - 955 Ribaut Road, Beaufort12 p.m. Lunch at Jasper’s Porch - 100 James Taylor Drive, Ridgeland1:30 p.m. Tour of Bluffton High School - 12 H. E. McCracken Circle, Bluffton2:30 p.m. Visit to Site of the future Technical College of the Lowcountry - Highway 278 across from Sun City, Hardeeville3:15 p.m. Tour of Site for future Traditions Community of Hardeeville - Highway 278 near I-95 Exit 8, Hardeeville4 p.m. Environmental Boat Tour of the May River - 110 Calhoun Street, Bluffton Friday, August 25 7:30 a.m. Tour of Hilton Head Christian Academy - 55 Gardner Drive, Hilton Head Island9 a.m. Meeting with DHEC Pandemic Flu EMT Officials - Hilton Head Island Regional Medical Center, 25 Hospital Center Boulevard, Hilton Head Island10:30 a.m. Tour of American Hospitality Academy - 1 Corpus Christie, 118 Executive Center, Hilton Head Island12 p.m. Tour of Daufuskie Island Resort - 421 Squire Pope Road, Hilton Head Island ###
08.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 15, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Commends India on 59th Year of Independence Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), former Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, today congratulated India on the anniversary of its 59th year of independence: “India has come a long way since 1947. In the face of domestic and international threats, India has stood with the United States as a strong democratic ally. Such a position is not popular in India’s region of the world, and the United States understands and respects that. “From such triumphs as House passage of the ’US-India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act’ to such tragedies as July’s terror attacks, Indians have experienced many highs and lows in recent months. Yet, even in the face of danger, India has been unwavering in its commitment to freedom. “The United States is proud to call India a friend and will continue to stand with India in the years to come.” ###
08.10.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 10, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Statement on Foiled Terror Plot Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities, today made the following statement regarding the foiled terror plot in Great Britain. British officials have arrested 21 people who planned to use liquid explosives to target airplanes flying between Great Britain and the United States. “Since 9/11, the United States has worked hand-in-hand with our allies around the world to protect our homeland and defeat terrorism abroad. Today’s announcement that British officials disrupted a planned attack and have arrested 21 people in connection with the plot is evidence that our efforts are working. “The Global War on Terror is real. As we move forward in the days ahead, we must maintain our resolve to win the War and protect American families.” ###
08.08.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 8, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 420-9493 (Cell) Victory in Iraq Caucus Members Applaud Advancement of Iraqi Forces The 4th Iraqi Army Division (IAD) today assumed the lead for security operations in its area of responsibility from the 101st Airborne Division. Victory in Iraq Caucus Members made the following statements: “Just last week, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani announced that Iraqi forces would assume security operations for the entire country by the end of this year. Today, the 4th IAD became the fifth of 10 Iraqi Army units to take on this responsibility. Make no mistake - this transfer is a result of increased capability and proven successes on the part of the Iraqis.” *The 4th IAD recently led a 10-day operation in which they detained 154 terror suspects and seized a large weapons cache.* (Source: The U.S. Department of Defense) -- Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus “The development of the Iraqi Security Force is a critical component to stabilizing Iraq’s democratic government, our victory in the region and will lead to further U.S. troop reduction,” said Congressman Bill Shuster, a member of the Armed Services Committee who traveled to the region to visit with troops and hear from our military commanders on the ground. “Assuming control from the 101st Airborne keeps us moving in the right direction toward victory.” -- Congressman Bill Shuster (PA-09) “The 101st Airborne Division and the Fort Campbell community, which I represent in Congress, can mark an enormous achievement today. America is grateful for their hard work and dedication to this mission. Each development like this is proof that a transition of security responsibilities is progressing.” -- Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) “This is an important milestone for a sovereign Iraq. Iraqis need to be responsible for protecting their country, and they are making progress toward achieving security self-reliance.” -- Congressman Sam Graves (MO-06) ###
08.08.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAugust 8, 2006 CONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) Wilson Praises Continued Advancement of Iraqi Forces The 4th Iraqi Army Division (IAD) today assumed control of security operations in its area of responsibility from the 101st Airborne Division. Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, made the following statement: “Just last week, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani announced that Iraqi forces would assume security operations for the entire country by the end of this year. Today, the 4th IAD became the fifth of 10 Iraqi Army units to take on this responsibility. “The rapid advancement of Iraqi Security Forces is undeniable. Iraqis are now controlling roughly half of their country. By leading operations in major cities such as Tikrit and Samarra, the Iraqis are proving their ability and desire to defend themselves. “The 101st Airborne Division has served the United States proudly. We are forever indebted to the work they have done to protect American families and advance U.S. interests abroad.” Additional Facts on Advancement of Iraqi Forces(Source: The White House) ò There are approximately 275,000 trained Iraqi security personnel. ò In July, the al-Muthanna province became the first of Iraq’s 18 provinces to be given responsibility of its own security and governmental responsibilities. ò Iraqi Security Forces currently in the lead:o 5 Iraqi Army Divisionso 25 Iraqi Army Brigadeso 85 Iraqi Army Battalionso 2 Iraqi National Police Battalions ###
08.04.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) August 4, 2006 Wilson Praises Continued Economic Growth Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today made the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor’s report that 113,000 jobs were created in July: “Today’s jobs report is more good news for American families. While 113,000 people were added to the workforce last month, House Republicans were busy ensuring these workers keep more of their hard-earned money. “With passage of such legislation as the ’Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act,’ ’Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act,’ and the ’Pension Protection Act,’ Americans can rest easy knowing that Republicans in Congress are fighting for them. “Through our responsible fiscal policies and commitment to lower taxes, families throughout America can enjoy the fruits of their labor.” ###
07.31.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) July 31, 2006 Wilson: America is on Our Side PLANO - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) today joined Chairman Sam Johnson and members of the House Education and Workforce Subcommittee on Employer - Employee Relations for a field hearing in Plano, Texas. Wilson made the following opening remarks: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank Chairman Sam Johnson for conducting today’s hearing. Our discussion will center on a key issue in the debate surrounding illegal immigration: employee verification systems and employer enforcement. “The House border security bill incorporates stringent measures for verifying and complying with employee eligibility. Such provisions are sadly absent from the Reid-Kennedy Senate bill. “For example, employers are currently required to inspect employees’ government-issued identification and require them to complete an I-9 form attesting to their work eligibility. In addition to these requirements, employers may choose to screen employees through the Basic Pilot Program, which electronically verifies employees’ work eligibility through the Social Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security. “While both the House border security bill and the Reid-Kennedy bill make participation in the Basic Pilot Program mandatory, the House bill requires employers to ensure that ALL of their employees are legally able to work in the United States. In contrast, the Reid-Kennedy bill only extends the requirement to employees hired AFTER the bill’s enactment. Mr. Chairman, this defies logic. Employers should be held accountable for ALL of their employees - not just those hired after an arbitrary date. “In conclusion, I believe strongly that as House Republicans take our case to the American people in August with such hearings as we are conducting today, we will hear the same response: the American people are on our side! “We are at a crossroads today in the United States. We can choose to effectively address our growing illegal immigration problem or we can turn a blind eye. “As we continue to debate this issue, I hope Democrats in Congress will realize what the average American already understands: We cannot address illegal immigration without addressing border security.” ###
07.29.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) July 29, 2006 Wilson Applauds Passage of the “Pension Protection Act” The House of Representatives last night approved H.R. 4, the “Pension Protection Act,” by an overwhelming vote of 279-131. Congressman Joe Wilson, a member of the House Committee on Education & the Workforce, made the following statement: “Passage of the ’Pension Protection Act’ is a major win for American families and taxpayers. For too long, workers and retirees have faced uncertainty about the status of their pensions. They can now rest easy knowing their years of hard work will not be in vain. “Additionally, CAFTA rule of origin changes included in the bill offer further protections for textile workers while ensuring American companies continue to compete in the global economy. I appreciate the Bush Administration’s work with Congress in bringing about these important safeguards.” The “Pension Protection Act” ensures the federal government is not left with the bill when private companies default on their pensions, thus negatively affecting workers and taxpayers. This legislation establishes new funding requirements to ensure employers adequately and consistently fund their pensions, gives workers meaningful information about the financial status of their benefits, and protects taxpayers from a possible multi-billion dollar bailout of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). ###
07.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 420-9493 (Cell) July 26, 2006 WILSON APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF US-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION PROMOTION ACT The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 5682, the “United States and India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act of 2006.” The bill passed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 359 - 68. Congressman Joe Wilson, past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, made the following statement: “Today we approved a monumental piece of legislation that will strengthen our non-proliferation efforts, increase national security and create jobs. This is an issue I have worked on for some time and is very near to my heart. Chairman Henry Hyde, Ranking Member Tom Lantos and other members of the International Relations Committee are to be commended for crafting a well-balanced piece of legislation. “While working on this bill, we encountered resistance from some who did not want this agreement to come to fruition. Thankfully, we were able to overcome their obstructionist efforts and approve this critical measure. “Passage of this agreement holds countless economic benefits for the United States. Secretary Condoleezza Rice has noted that as many as 5,000 direct jobs and 15,000 indirect jobs could be created as a result of this agreement. In addition, India will be better positioned to compete in the global economy, and trade between our countries will continue to grow.” Congressman Wilson serves on the House Committee on International Relations and is past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. ###
07.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) July 27, 2006 Wilson to Participate in Immigration Enforcement, Employment Verification Field Hearing“America is on Our Side” Congressman Joe Wilson on Monday will join Chairman Sam Johnson and members of the House Education and Workforce Subcommittee on Employer - Employee Relations for a field hearing in Plano, Texas. This hearing will address a key issue in the debate surrounding illegal immigration: employee verification systems and employer enforcement. Congressman Wilson today made the following statement regarding the upcoming hearing: “The House border security bill incorporates stringent measures for verifying and complying with employee eligibility. Such provisions are sadly absent from the Reid-Kennedy Senate bill. “Throughout August, we will take our case to the American public. With various field hearings, we will differentiate our border-first approach from the Reid-Kennedy amnesty plan. “Chairman Ed Royce held two such hearings in July. Mr. Speaker, the response was overwhelming - the American people are on our side! “As we continue to debate this issue, I hope Senate Democrats will realize what the average American already understands: We cannot address illegal immigration without addressing border security.” ###
07.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive(202) 225-2452 (Office)(202) 420-9493 (Cell) July 27, 2006 House Adopts Rule for Health Information Technology Promotion ActWilson Amendment to Strike Cost Transparency Provision Included The House of Representatives today adopted the rule providing for consideration of H.R. 4157, the Health Information Technology Promotion Act of 2006. Congressman Joe Wilson’s amendment to strike language requiring hospitals to report the range of private contractual negotiated rates for inpatient services was included. “I am pleased the Rules Committee recognized the irrelevance and imprudence of the ’price transparency’ provision and ultimately decided to remove it from the underlying bill. The provision’s misguided approach to pricing transparency was not a market solution - in fact, it verged on price fixing.” Wilson’s amendment was self-executing, meaning it was automatically added to the underlying bill without a separate vote. ###
07.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive (202) 225-2452 (Office) (202) 420-9493 (Cell) July 26, 2006 WILSON COMMENDS SERVICE OF IRAQI PRIME MINISTER AL-MALIKI - Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki today addressed a joint session of Congress regarding the progress being made in Iraq and the work ahead. Congressman Joe Wilson, Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, made the following statement: “Just three and one-half years ago, Iraq was controlled by a brutal dictator who killed an average of 300 people a day. Iraq has now been liberated, and a fledgling democracy has taken root. The Iraqi people - in the face of terrorist threats - turned out in droves to ratify a constitution and elect their representatives. Today, we were honored to hear from the democratically elected leader of Iraq, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. “The Prime Minister’s address was one of hope and progress. The training of Iraqi Security Forces is advancing rapidly. The parliamentary cabinet has been completed. Iraq has become a civil society. “Having visited Iraq six times, I have witnessed first-hand the progress being made and am proud of the work Prime Minister al-Maliki is doing. While there is still a long road ahead, the United States will continue to stand with the Iraqi people in order to protect American families.” ###
07.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Kim Olive (202) 226-8260 (Office) July 24, 2006 WILSON APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF FRANCIS MARION MEMORIAL ACT The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 5057, the “Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act.” The bill passed by a voice vote. Congressman Joe Wilson made the following statement: “Brigadier General Francis Marion represented the state of South Carolina and our fledgling nation well with his brave service in the Revolutionary War. As a South Carolinian, I am proud his legacy has been honored with a memorial park in Washington, D.C. Yet, I feel strongly that a statue of the ’Swamp Fox’ should be erected on its premises. Passage of this bill is a crucial first step in making this dream a reality. “I would specifically like to thank Ken Driggers and Nancy Stone-Collum of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, which serves as a conduit for the fundraising part of this process. Additionally, I would like to thank the South Carolina Humanities Council for supporting John McCabe, the man who originally had the vision to honor the ’Swamp Fox.’ John created the Francis Marion Park Project to assist in the fundraising and planning efforts, and I cannot be more pleased with the progress that has taken place. Also, the National Park Service deserves recognition for their guidance through this important process. “The entire South Carolina delegation, as well as Chairman Richard Pombo, have leant their support to this project. As such, I am confident our efforts will be successful.” The “Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act” authorizes the Marion Park Project a committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation to establish a commemorative work on federal land in the District of Columbia to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion. ###
07.11.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) July 11, 2006 Wilson Condemns Terror Attacks in India Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, strongly condemned a series of terror attacks at train stations in India: “While terrorists claim to pursue a lofty purpose, their cowardly attacks against civilians demonstrate that they are monsters motivated by evil and the destruction of life. By targeting innocent travelers in India, these mass murderers have reminded the world of their inhumanity and the importance of defeating terrorism throughout the globe. “Today, our hearts and prayers are with the Indian people. Just as they stood with us on September 11th, we are standing with them on July 11th and each day forward as our two nations continue to fight terrorism and protect our freedoms.” ###
07.10.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) July 10, 2006 Wilson Delivers Speech on Status of U.S.-India Relations Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) was the keynote speaker at a panel event hosted by the Heritage Foundation regarding the status of U.S.-India relations. He made the following remarks: “On July 18, 2005, I was honored to stand on the South Lawn of the White House with hundreds of Indian Americans during the historic welcoming ceremony for Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh during his official state visit. Prime Minister Singh eloquently expressed that the American people and the people of India have much in common. He noted that ’we share a common commitment to democracy, freedom, human rights, pluralism and rule of law. We face common challenges that threaten our way of life and values that both our countries hold dear.’ “On that same day, President Bush and Prime Minister Singh issued a joint statement, which outlined a dramatic, bold initiative to truly cement a strategic partnership between the U.S. and India. The relevant part of that statement read: President Bush conveyed his appreciation to the Prime Minister over India’s strong commitment to preventing WMD proliferation and stated that as a responsible state with advanced nuclear technology, India should acquire the same benefits and advantages as other such states. The President told the Prime Minister that he will work to achieve full civil nuclear energy cooperation with India as it realizes its goals of promoting nuclear power and achieving energy security. The President would also seek agreement from Congress to adjust U.S. laws and policies, and the United States will work with friends and allies to adjust international regimes to enable full civil nuclear energy cooperation and trade with India. “This bold move would set in motion a series of events that now leaves Congress on the verge of passing legislation to fulfill President Bush’s promise made early in 2005 to ’help India become a major world power in the twenty-first century.’ “After President Bush’s announcement that the U.S. wanted to provide nuclear fuel and technology to India within the context of full civilian nuclear cooperation, hearings were held in the House International Relations Committee and Senate Foreign Relations Committee throughout the fall of 2005 and into the spring of 2006. “While some were opposed to the agreement, I supported it for several reasons. India has had nuclear weapons for nearly thirty years, and it is simply unrealistic to expect they would voluntarily disarm and sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, which would be the only way for them to receive civilian nuclear technology. “While India did not sign the NPT, it followed the spirit of the agreement by carefully protecting its nuclear technology and amassed a stellar record of non-proliferation during the past three decades. "As President Bush noted on July 18, 2005, ’since enacting economic reforms in the early ’90s, India has become an emerging economic power.’ India’s rising economic growth has placed enormous strains on its domestic energy production. More nuclear power will enable India to consistently meets its energy needs, burn less fossil fuels, and allow India to maximize its economic potential. “Lastly, this agreement brings India’s civilian nuclear sector under international inspection through the IAEA. Two-thirds of India’s civilian reactors will come under safeguards. “There are some who have criticized the deal in both India and the U.S. Some in the non-proliferation community believe we are weakening non-proliferation with this agreement. I disagree. We must make a distinction between countries that signed the NPT such as North Korea and Iran and then subsequently failed to uphold their commitment to the NPT, as compared to India, which has followed the spirit of the NPT although it was not a signatory. “There are some in India who believe the agreement cedes too much authority over India’s nuclear programs to the international community. I disagree. Existing laws ensure civilian technology is not used by India for its nuclear weapons program. Further, India maintains its autonomy while a majority of its civilian reactors comes under international inspection. “To the critics of the agreement, I believe that Secretary Rice and the Indian negotiators came up with the right balance to move U.S.-India relations to the next level with this agreement. “Recently, the House International Relations Committee successfully marked-up H.R. 5682 by a bipartisan vote of 37-5. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee marked-up Chairman Lugar’s bill by a vote of 16-2. In both committees, amendments were introduced to weaken the agreement, but were defeated by wide, bipartisan margins. “The House bill clearly spells out steps the Administration must make to certify India is meeting its obligations under the agreement. It provides for detailed reporting requirements to Congress, allowing us to have oversight of progress being made under the agreement. “The main provisions of the bill provide for Presidential authority to waive portions of Sections 123, 128 and 129 of the Atomic Energy Act, which is necessary for the U.S. to provide India with civilian nuclear technology. India must support the Fissile Material Production Cutoff Treaty (FMCT) and prevent the spread of enrichment and reprocessing technology to other nations. India must approve a credible plan to separate its civil and military nuclear facilities, and the Nuclear Suppliers Group must amend its guidelines to allow nuclear exports to India. While the President could ask for yearly waivers from Congress, making a permanent change to U.S. law signifies to India, just how much importance President Bush and Republicans in Congress place on transforming U.S.-India ties to one of a global partnership. “In April 2005, when President George W. Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with Indian External Affairs Minister Natwar Singh, Secretary Rice stated, ’It is important that the U.S.-India relationship continues to grow as we recognize the growing importance of India as a global factor.’ I believe this comprehensive bill will implement this vision President Bush has for U.S.-India ties. “The March 2nd, 2006, editorial in the Post and Courier of Charleston, South Carolina, noted after President Bush’s successful visit to India, “The embrace of India, after decades of strained relations, follows a five-year personal courtship by President Bush. It ranks as one of the president’s most important diplomatic achievements.” “To conclude, I support the U.S.-India civilian nuclear agreement and will do everything possible to ensure its passage in Congress.” ###
07.07.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) July 7, 2006 Wilson Slams Another Round of Pelosi’s Economic Pessimism After the U.S. Department of Labor reported that 121,000 American jobs were created in June, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi’s (CA-08) pessimistic statement about American job growth: “After 75,000 American jobs were created in May, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi proclaimed this job growth was proof that our economy was moving in the wrong direction. After learning that an additional 121,000 American jobs were created last month, she said today ’President Bush just doesn’t get it’ and promised that House Democrats have a new direction for America. “While her opinion of economic growth is absurd, at least her message about the Democratic agenda is brutally honest. If Democrats were in the majority, America would be taken in a new direction that our country simply cannot afford. Instead of benefiting from new job opportunities, American families would pay higher taxes. Instead of watching their paychecks increase, American families would witness their hard-earned money fuel Democrats’ massive spending sprees. “As Democrats continue to plot their direction, House Republicans will remain committed to reducing taxes to ensure that the American economy continues to surge ahead at a record pace.” The American Economy Remains Strong: Since 2004, The U.S. Has Created About Twice The Number Of Jobs As The Rest Of The G-7 Countries Combined. Employment Increased In 48 States Over The Past 12 Months Ending In May. Nonfarm payroll employment increased in 33 states in May. Real GDP Grew At An Annual Rate Of 5.6 Percent For The First Quarter Of This Year. Productivity Increased At A Strong Annual Rate Of 3.7 Percent In The First Quarter. Productivity growth during the past five years has been at the fastest rate in nearly four decades. Real Hourly Compensation Rose At A 3.2 Percent Annual Rate In The First Quarter. Real Consumer Spending Increased At An Annual Rate Of 5.1 Percent In The First Quarter. Industrial Production Increased 4.3 Percent Over The Past 12 Months. ###
06.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 27, 2006 Wilson Praises Progress of U.S.-India Nuclear ProposalHouse IR Committee Passes “U.S.-India Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act” After the House International Relations Committee overwhelmingly passed the “U.S.-India Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act of 2006” (H.R. 5682), Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement: “Since March, Chairman Henry Hyde, Congressman Tom Lantos, and other members of the House International Relations Committee have worked tirelessly to achieve a well-balanced piece of legislation that moves the proposed U.S.-India nuclear agreement forward. By passing H.R. 5682 out of Committee today, we have made steady progress on a critical agreement with India that will improve our nonproliferation efforts, create more American jobs, and strengthen our national security.” H.R. 5682 exempts a proposed nuclear agreement for cooperation with India from certain requirements of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. The legislation would grant the President a series of waivers that would allow him to negotiate and submit to Congress for approval an agreement for civil nuclear cooperation with India. Before he can exercise this authority, the President must issue a series of determinations that India has met certain requirements, such as negotiation of a safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). This bill also requires continuing consultation with Congress and a number of reports to ensure that Congress is fully informed of the ongoing negotiation and implementation of the agreement. Congressman Joe Wilson serves on the House International Relations Committee and is Past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. ###
06.22.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 22, 2006 Wilson: “Americans Should Not Be Penalized for Providing for Their Families’ Futures” 156 Democrats Oppose Reducing Death Tax Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act of 2006” (H.R. 5638) by a 269 to 156 vote: “Whether they invest their hard-earned money or build businesses in their communities, millions of Americans work for years to ensure that they are able to leave a valuable inheritance to their families. After already taxing this income at least once, the federal government should not have the opportunity to levy another expensive tax upon the American people at death. “While I was not surprised, I was extremely disappointed that 156 Democrats demonstrated their strong support for the ’death tax.’ Since when should the American people be penalized for providing for their families’ futures? By acting to permanently reform this unfair tax, House Republicans are working to ensure that people throughout our country will continue to strive for the American dream.” The Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act of 2006, reunifies the estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes and increases the estate and gift tax exemption to $5 million per person. In addition, married couples can carry-over any unused part of their spouse’s $5 million exemption. For estates between $5 million and $25 million, the rate of tax will be the same as the capital gains tax rate. On estates valued at more than $25 million, the top marginal rate of tax will be double the capital gains tax rate. ###
06.21.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 21, 2006 House Resources Committee Passes Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the House Resources Committee passed the “Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act” (H.R. 5057). “We are now one step closer to seeing Brigadier General Francis Marion’s statue grace the grounds of Marion Park in Washington, D.C. I appreciate Chairman Pombo’s assistance with this important project and am hopeful the entire House of Representatives will soon pass this bill.” said Wilson. The Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act authorizes the Marion Park Project, a committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation to establish a commemorative work on federal land in the District of Columbia to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion. All members of the South Carolina delegation have signed on as cosponsors of this legislation. From Start to Finish: Honoring Brigadier General Francis Marion: Site Selection: After Congress passes H.R. 5057, the National Park Service and National Capitol Memorial Advisory Committee will conduct a study to determine the best location for the statue. After their study is complete, they will announce a primary and secondary site. Congressman Wilson is working to ensure that Marion Park (located at the intersection of E Street and South Carolina Avenue) is the primary site. The National Park Service will submit a final report to the National Capitol Planning Commission and the State Historic Preservation Office for approval. Monument Design: The Marion Park Project will select a designer for the statue and choose a design concept. The National Park Service will approve the design and submit it to the National Capitol Planning Commission and Commission of Fine Arts to make necessary modifications and approve the final design. Fundraising: After the Marion Park Project completes its fundraising efforts, it will submit the approved drawings and specifications with cost estimates for project creation and construction and evidence of funds existing to the National Park Service. The Secretary of Interior will grant the final approval of the statue. Installation: The National Park Service will issue a construction permit on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior. The Marion Park Project will begin construction and maintenance of the Memorial. After the Memorial is dedicated, it will be transferred to the National Park Service for management with maintenance and preservation plans. ###
06.16.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 16, 2006 Victory in Iraq Co-Chairs Praise Passage of Global War on Terror Resolution Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Congressman Mark Green (WI-08) praised passage of H.Res.861, a resolution declaring that the United States will prevail in the Global War on Terror: "We did not choose to enter the Global War on Terrorism, but we are choosing to win this fight. We cannot allow the challenges we face on battlefields abroad to erase our memory of the horrors of terrorism at home. Today's resolution clearly states that America will prevail in this war and will not accept artificial timelines that undermine our mission for victory. As President Bush and brave U.S. troops continue to protect American families, they should feel confident that Congress strongly supports their efforts." said Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02). “Our nation is engaged in a global war on terrorism - one that continues to test the will and resolve of the American people. Despite the pain and tragedy we have suffered in this costly campaign, America, and the world, are safer places because of our efforts. The vast majority of the people of Iraq and Afghanistan have embraced democracy and their new freedoms. They’re optimistic about the future of their countries, and, with the help of our courageous men and women in uniform, continue to forge ahead in creating a safer, more peaceful society for their citizens. There’s no question enormous challenges lie ahead, but we cannot dispute all the extraordinary accomplishments America and our coalition partners have made in the war on terror. This resolution recognizes those accomplishments, and renews our commitment to finishing the job.” said Congressman Mark Green (WI-08). ###
06.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 15, 2006 Wilson Praises Political Progress in Iraq Today, members of the U.S. House of Representatives debated H.Res. 861, a resolution declaring that the United States will prevail in the Global War on Terror. Congressman Joe Wilson, Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, made the following statement regarding political progress in Iraq: “In only three years, the world has watched the nation of Iraq transform from a brutal dictatorship into a promising democracy. Saddam’s torture chambers and mass graves have been replaced with democracy’s voting booths and legislative referendums. “Today, Iraqi citizens are working tirelessly to secure their freedoms. By participating in the election of a Transitional Assembly in January 2005, the drafting and approval of the Constitution by October 2005, and the national elections in December 2005, they have demonstrated that they refuse to allow terrorists to determine the fate of their country. Last month, Iraqis achieved another historic victory when they announced their new unity government. “U.S. troops, Coalition forces, and Iraqi citizens continue to face challenges in establishing a civil society in Iraq, but they are proving that their strong resolve will overpower the terrorists’ agenda of evil.” Political Progress in Iraq(Source: Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq) Increased Participation: Participation in many Sunni areas increased from as little as 25% in the January ’05 election to 75% in the December ’05 election. Public Confidence: 62% of Iraqis have confidence that the government can improve the situation in Iraq. That support is spread broadly across the country. Right Direction: 61% of Iraqis believe that the National Government is leading the country in the right direction. Free Press: Participation in the political process is also reflected in the continued growth of a free and open press, a hallmark of a free and democratic society. In March there were 268 independent newspapers, 114 commercial radio stations, and 54 commercial TV stations. Politics, Not Violence: 78% of Iraqis believe that “violence is never acceptable, even if the government does not meet my expectations.” Insurgency working against Iraqis: While Iraqi confidence in the new government is growing, 96% of Iraqis polled said that the insurgents are not working in the best interests of the Iraqi people. ###
06.14.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 14, 2006 Wilson Highlights Counterterrorism Operations in Iraq As Members of the U.S. House of Representatives prepare to debate a resolution regarding the Global War on Terror, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, highlighted counterterrorism operations in Iraq: “Throughout the past three years, U.S. troops have built an elaborate counterterrorism network that has enabled Coalition forces to capture or kill hundreds of terrorists in Iraq. Their skill, persistence, and dedication are saving the lives of countless Iraqi citizens and American families. “Last Wednesday evening, the safe house of terrorist Abu Mussab al-Zarqawi became the final destination of two five-hundred pound bombs dropped by a single U.S. F-16 C aircraft. Although this tremendous military achievement occurred within moments, it was actually the result of a coordinated counterterrorism operation involving U.S. troops, Iraqi Security Forces, Coalition troops, and Iraqi citizens. “In the wake of this historic event, Congress must continue to support our troops to ensure that they sharpen their intelligence capabilities on the battlefields of Iraq instead of the streets of America.” ###
06.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 13, 2006 Wilson Highlights Progress of Iraqi Security Forces As Members of the U.S. House of Representatives prepare to debate a resolution regarding the Global War on Terror, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, highlighted the increasing warfighting capacity of the Iraqi Security Forces (ISF): “In three years, U.S. and Coalition troops have transformed hundreds of thousands of courageous Iraqi volunteers into over 263,400 battle-tested troops of the Iraqi Security Forces. Today, the Iraqi Army now controls 30,000 square miles of territory, an area roughly the size of my home state of South Carolina. Nearly two-thirds of combat operations are now conducted by Iraqis alone or jointly with Coalition forces. “Day by day, Iraqis are defeating terrorists and gaining control over their country. Last week, the world witnessed an extraordinary sign of success after Iraqi troops and U.S. Forces successfully targeted and killed Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi, the most-wanted terrorist in Iraq. As Iraqi Security Forces continue to improve their ability to secure their country, they will play an even larger role in stopping terrorists who seek to destroy the lives of families in both Iraq and the United States. “Progress in Iraq is helping to ensure security in America, and we must remain committed to completing this critical mission.” Iraqi Security Forces Gain Ground(Source: “Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq”) ò There are more than 263,400 trained and equipped Iraqi Security Forces. ò The Army is now at 86% of its authorized end strength. ò There are 111 Iraqi Army and Special Operations battalions are conducting counter-insurgency operations. ò 71 of those battalions are in the lead. ò 57 Iraqi Army battalions now control their own battle space. ò The Iraqi Army controls 30,000 square miles of territory, an area roughly the size of South Carolina (approx 32,000 sq. miles). ò In April, 64% of combat operations were ISF or combined ISF / CF operations. (1518 ISF or ISF / CF operations at the company level or above). Only 36% of operations were independent of Iraqi forces. ò All 28 Iraqi National Police units are in the fight, 12 of them are in the lead. ò The ISF have the lead in 60% of Baghdad.ò The Ministries of Defense and Interior are on track to complete the initial training and equipping of 100% of their end strength by the end of the year. ###
06.09.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 9, 2006 Wilson Questions Democrats’ Economic Sense of Direction “They will continue to push for tax increases as they chart their course.” After Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called recent job growth ’disappointing,’ Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding House Democrats’ promise to lead America in a new economic direction: “I continue to be amazed that House Democrats always manage to find doom and gloom in the most unlikely of circumstances. “Last week, the Department of Labor announced that over 75,000 American jobs were created in May. While most people would celebrate this economic growth, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi actually said this was proof that the Bush economy continues to go in the wrong direction. Does she seriously believe that 33 consecutive months of economic growth and the creation of 5.2 million American jobs hurts our country? “Additionally, Pelosi promised that House Democrats have a plan to take America in a new direction. After witnessing 185 House Democrats vote against the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act, it’s clear that they will continue to push for tax increases as they chart their course.” ###
06.08.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) June 8, 2006 Wilson Statement on the Death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the death of terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi: “Mr. Speaker, last night, the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces and Iraqi Security Forces delivered a major victory in the Global War on Terrorism. Because of their tremendous patience, courage, and skill, the most wanted terrorist in Iraq is now dead. As President Bush has said ’there is justice in Iraq.’ “As the operational commander of the terrorist movement in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi delighted in the devastation of Iraq and the destruction of life. As the mastermind behind countless car bombings, mass murders, and assassinations, he was responsible for the brutal deaths of many Americans and thousands of innocent Iraqis. “Today’s victory in Iraq is a testament to the tremendous talent of the United States military. By risking their lives to kill terrorists in Iraq, these brave men and women are protecting the lives of American families and making our country safer. As we celebrate this incredible milestone, I rise to express my sincere gratitude to our brave troops and our Iraqi allies. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.07.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily LAwrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) Wilson Discusses Sixth Visit to Iraq Highlights Successes of U.S. Troops, Progress of Iraqi Security Forces Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chairman of the Victory in Iraq Caucus and a member of the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, made the following remarks regarding his sixth visit to Iraq. “Mr. Speaker, every day, U.S. troops risk their lives in Iraq to perform a mission which improves the national security of our country. Their sacrifices are immeasurable and these brave men and women remain dedicated to facing terrorists on the streets of Iraq so that we do not have to face them at home. “Last week, I had the fortunate opportunity to visit Iraq for the sixth time. While meeting with military leaders, Iraqi government officials, and U.S. troops, I was inspired to learn of the tremendous progress occurring throughout this new democracy. Iraqi Security Forces continue to gain greater control over their country. In only seven months, these forces have expanded from 2 brigades and 19 battalions to 14 brigades and 57 battalions. “As American troops and Iraqi security forces demonstrate strength on the battlefields of Iraq, we must also demonstrate our unwavering confidence in their mission for victory in the Global War on Terrorism. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” From May 26th through June 3rd, Congressman Wilson traveled to Iraq, Pakistan, and Afghanistan to meet with U.S. troops serving in the Global War on Terrorism. ###
05.25.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 25, 2006 Wilson Counters Critics of U.S.-India Nuclear Proposal Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R- SC) joined Congressmen Dan Burton (R- IN), Gary Ackerman (D-NY), and Joe Crowley (D-NY) in co-authoring a Dear Colleague letter responding to critics of the proposed civilian nuclear agreement between the United States and India. Congressman Wilson made the following statement about the letter: “Throughout the past few months, critics of the civilian nuclear proposal have made several erroneous statements which completely misrepresent the intent of this potential partnership. Our letter counters these false claims and reaffirms our support for this visionary agreement.” Countering the Critics: 1. Critics claim the proposed agreement poses potential negative impacts on nonproliferation. “On the contrary, the agreement greatly strengthens the international nonproliferation system. India has long been largely outside of international nonproliferation regimes. Under this agreement, India will place 14 of 22 existing and planned nuclear facilities under IAEA safeguards. Further, once a reactor has been placed under safeguards, it will be that way permanently and without conditions” 2. Critics claim the proposed agreement treats India’s civilian nuclear program differently than those of other countries. “However, the fact that the agreement provides unique treatment for India is based on the recognition of the very different factual situation regarding India compared to other countries with a history of proliferation problems. For 30 years, India has protected its nuclear programs. It has not engaged in or allowed proliferation of its nuclear technology. Simply put, India is treated uniquely because of its history of maintaining a successful nuclear nonproliferation regime.” *Please click on the attached document to view the entire letter. ###
05.24.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 24, 2006 Wilson Expresses Strong Opposition to Elimination of MOX Funding Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding his strong opposition to measures in the 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill which eliminate funding for a mixed oxide (MOX) facility at the Savannah River Site (SRS): “Mr. Speaker, during my service, I have worked with my colleagues from South Carolina and Georgia, especially Gresham Barrett and Charlie Norwood and our four U.S. Senators, to ensure that a mixed oxide facility is built at the Savannah River Site. Two weeks ago, we were proud when 396 members of Congress voted for the Defense Authorization bill and approved a measure which funds and de-links the U.S. / Russia MOX programs. “After celebrating this tremendous victory, we were extremely disappointed to learn that there is an effort to eliminate all funding for the MOX program. While I respect my colleagues, I strongly disagree with their decision and will continue to fight for this critical funding to be restored in the coming weeks. “I believe the U.S. MOX program is the most viable way for America to reduce its excess plutonium supply and we must move forward with our nonproliferation commitments as we end future storage in South Carolina. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.24.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 24, 2006 Wilson, Barrett, Norwood United Behind MOX Voting Against Bill to Eliminate MOX Program at SRS Members of the South Carolina and Georgia delegations stand united against efforts to eliminate the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Program in H.R. 5427, the Energy and Water Appropriations Act of FY 2007. Representatives Joe Wilson (SC-02), Gresham Barrett (S-03) and Charlie Norwood (GA-09) will express their strong support for the MOX program by voting against this legislation. “Six years ago, the federal government assured the state of South Carolina that it would not become a final resting place for America’s nuclear waste. By eliminating the funding for a MOX facility at SRS, the House Appropriations Committee has disregarded our important nonproliferation agreement and failed to provide a meaningful alternative for the excess plutonium currently sitting in our state,” said Wilson. “While I support the bulk of the energy appropriations bill, I cannot vote for legislation which will terminate the MOX program. I strongly believe that the MOX program is the most viable way to dispose of our nation’s excess plutonium, and I will continue to work with Senators Graham and DeMint to ensure this funding is restored during conference.” “I strongly disagree with Chairman Hobson’s position on this issue, and I will not support any legislation that effectively turns South Carolina into a dumping ground,” said Barrett. “The MOX program is vital to our national security and it is the most efficient and cost effective way to process this plutonium. The elimination of such an important program is wrong not only for South Carolina, but for the nation and the world. I am, however, still hopeful that with the help of our Senators the MOX program will ultimately receive funding, and construction will move forward this fall as planned.” “Continuation of the MOX program is an absolute keystone in our nation’s energy policy for the 21st Century,” says Norwood, “and this bill cannot be supported without it. In a time when our country is desperate for energy sources, this bill proposes sticking a vital energy resource into the ground. We spent billions producing plutonium and instead of using it as an asset this bill immobilizes it. While we may not have the votes to stop the overall bill in the House, our votes can serve well to help Senators Chambliss and Isakson restore these funds in the Senate version of the bill, and help us win the final MOX fight in conference.” In 2000, the U.S. and Russia each agreed to dispose of 34 metric tons each of surplus, weapons-grade plutonium by turning it into MOX fuel for use in existing commercial nuclear reactors. While there have been delays due to liability issues between the two countries, the House recently voted in a bipartisan manner to allow the U.S. MOX program to move forward regardless of the pace of the Russian MOX program. Administration officials close to the program believe moving forward in a unilateral fashion is the best solution, and with adequate funding, they believe MOX will become a reality. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. Barrett, Wilson and Norwood are confident their Senators will fight to restore funding to the MOX program as the bill continues through the process. ###
05.23.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 23, 2006 Wilson Expresses Concern About Records of SC Veterans Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a veteran of the South Carolina Army National Guard, made the following statement regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) announcement that identifying information for 26.5 million veterans and some spouses was stolen earlier this month: “Like all veterans, I was extremely discouraged to learn that a federal employee would act so irresponsibly when entrusted with the personal information of millions of American Veterans. As the VA continues to investigate the status of these records, I will closely monitor this situation and work with my colleagues to put a policy into place which will prevent similar security breaches from happening in the future. “In this day and age, Americans simply cannot afford to underestimate the potential dangers of identity theft. If South Carolinians are even the slightest bit concerned about the status of their records, I encourage them to utilize the resources established by the VA and take the immediate steps to protect their privacy.” The Department of Veterans Affairs recently announced that an employee took home electronic data from the VA, which he was not authorized to do, and was in violation of established policies. The employee’s home was burglarized and this data was stolen. The data contains identifying information including names, social security numbers, and dates of birth for up to 26.5 million veterans and some spouses, as well as some disability ratings. Appropriate law enforcement agencies, including the FBI and the VA Inspector General's office, have launched full-scale investigations into this matter. For more information about this situation and to learn more about consumer identity protections, Veterans may visit www.firstgov.gov and www.va.gov/opa or call 1-800-FED INFO (333-4636). The call center will operate from 8 am to 9 pm (EST), Monday-Saturday. ###
05.18.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 17, 2006 Wilson: “Historic Day for American Taxpayers” Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after witnessing President Bush sign the “Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005,” into law at the White House. This legislation extends the President's 2003 tax cuts on dividends and capital gains and provides immediate relief against the alternative minimum tax (AMT). “Today is a historic day for American taxpayers. By signing this important legislation into law, President Bush prevented tax increases and ensured that families throughout our country continue to keep more of their hard-earned income. “While I am proud of this tremendous victory, I know that our work is far from over. 85 House Democrats voted against tax relief last week and clearly expressed their support for raising taxes on American families and businesses. As our economy continues to surge ahead, House Republicans will remain committed to policies that empower Americans rather than the federal government.” Since the 2003 Tax Cuts, America’s Economy Has Surged Ahead at a Record Pace:(Source: White House) ò GDP grew at a strong 4.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter of this year. This follows our economic growth of 3.5 percent in 2005 - the fastest rate of any major industrialized nation. ò Productivity Increased At A Strong Annual Rate Of 3.2 Percent In The First Quarter of 2006. ò Hourly Compensation Rose At A 5.7 Percent Rate In The First Quarter of 2006 - More Than Twice As Much As In The Previous Quarter. ò The Conference Board Index Of Consumer Confidence Increased In April To Its Highest Level In Almost Four Years. ò Industrial Production Posted A Solid Gain In March. Industrial production increased 0.6 percent in March and rose 4.5 percent at an annual rate in the first quarter. ò Consumer Spending Rose 0.6 Percent And Personal Income Rose 0.5 Percent In March. ò Over The Past 12 Months, Employment Increased In 48 States. In March, four states set record low unemployment rates. ###
05.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 15, 2006 Wilson Praises President’s Plan to Secure America’s Borders Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a 31-year veteran of the South Carolina Army National Guard, made the following statement regarding President Bush’s efforts to secure America’s borders: “Throughout our lives, we’ve always heard that actions speak louder than words. America can have the strongest immigration policies in the world, but until our laws are carried out with the strength of our intentions, millions of people will continue to illegally stream across our borders. “Tonight, President Bush demonstrated his commitment to securing our country. By placing thousands of National Guard troops on our borders, he will help decrease illegal immigration, stop drug trafficking, and prevent terrorism. As a former Guardsman, I know our troops are well prepared to assist temporarily with this critical mission. I appreciate President Bush’s strong leadership on this issue and will continue to work with him to find a long-term solution to securing America’s borders. ” ###
05.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 15, 2006 Wilson Announces Funding for Allendale County Hospital$2.3 Million Loan, $101,000 Grant Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development division has approved a loan of $2,399,000 and a grant of $101,000 for the Allendale County Hospital. “For over half a century, the Allendale County Hospital has helped families throughout our community. This critical funding will help ensure that the citizens of Allendale continue to have access to quality healthcare.” The Allendale County Hospital will use this funding to expand and renovate the hospital building, purchase equipment, refinance short term debt, and relocate their radiological services. ###
05.12.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 12, 2006 Wilson Statement on the Death of Sonny Montgomery Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding the death of Gillespie V. "Sonny" Montgomery: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the death of Sonny Montgomery, who was a dear friend of mine and a great leader of our nation. After serving his country in World War II and the Korean War, Sonny dedicated his days to improving the lives of America’s troops and veterans. From fighting for more equipment for members of the National Guard to authoring his visionary GI Bill, he concentrated his time and his talents on tasks that truly benefited the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces. I will always remain inspired by his leadership and service.” ###
05.12.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 12, 2006 Wilson, Barrett, Norwood Work To Restore Funding for MOX Facility at SRS Yesterday, members of the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee issued a decision to eliminate all funding for the Mixed Oxide (MOX) program at the Savannah River Site (SRS). Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Congressman Gresham Barrett (SC-03), and Congressman Charlie Norwood (GA-09) announced their commitment to restoring this critical funding: “Yesterday, 396 members of the House of Representatives voted for legislation which de-links the U.S./Russia MOX programs and authorizes funding for a MOX facility at the Savannah River Site,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “This clear signal of bipartisan support demonstrates Congress’ commitment to moving forward with our nuclear responsibilities. Although I am discouraged by the Energy and Water Subcommittee’s recent decision, I am confident that this issue is far from over. My colleagues and I will continue to remind House Appropriators how crucial this mission is to our country and the state of South Carolina.” “There is no doubt that I am disappointed that the Appropriations subcommittee on Energy and Water decided not to fund the MOX program. While I will continue to work with Chairman Hobson to resolve concerns over funding levels for future missions at the Savannah River Site, we clearly have fundamental differences on some of the broad policy issues which affect current and future projects at the Site,” said Congressman Gresham Barrett. “MOX is too important to the nation and the world, de-linking with Russia and moving forward in a unilateral fashion makes good sense. I know the folks back home are frustrated and I understand why, but we are at the beginning of the appropriations process and I am hopeful by working with our Senators when the process is finalized there will be adequate funding to ensure the MOX program becomes reality.” “This was a wrong decision by the Subcommittee as evidenced by the overwhelming support of the entire House in this week’s Defense Authorization approval. We now have the ability to move MOX fuel at SRS forward without any delay, and I urge the full Committee to recognize the new reality of the situation,” said Congressman Charlie Norwood. ###
05.11.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 11, 2006 Wilson Applauds Passage of Defense Authorization Bill H.R. 5122 Includes Wilson Amendment to De-link US/Russia MOX Programs Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) voted in support of the FY 2007 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5122), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a bipartisan 396 to 31 vote. H.R. 5122 serves as the blueprint for America’s national security programs, authorizing $512.9 billion in budget authority for national security programs implemented by the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy. H.R. 5122 includes major initiatives which improve how the Department of Defense procures major weapons systems, fund state-of-the-art equipment designed to help American troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, and provide compensation and support programs for the men and women of our armed forces. In addition to helping U.S. troops continue to protect American families in the Global War on Terror, H.R. 5122 includes a specific amendment sponsored by Congressman Wilson which de-links the United States and Russia mixed oxide (MOX) programs. Wilson praised this tremendous victory, “Throughout the past six years, our country has demonstrated that we are ready to move forward with our part of the non-proliferation agreement. Last week, my colleagues on the Committee supported the amendment to de-link the U.S. and Russia MOX programs to ensure that the pace of the Russia MOX program will not dictate the progress of the U.S. MOX program. Described by CQ Today as ’perhaps the most significant amendment adopted,’ at last Wednesday’s markup, this provision enables SRS to immediately begin construction on a MOX facility. We are hopeful that our progress will encourage Russia to proceed with the same momentum on their nuclear responsibilities. “In addition to creating hundreds of jobs in South Carolina, this important development helps ensure that America fulfills its commitment to safely reducing our excess plutonium supply.” Key Provisions of H.R. 5122 Support American Troops and Their Families: An additional $50 billion in supplemental funding to support the War on Terror’s operational costs, personnel expenses and the procurement of new equipment. Authorizes additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including up-armored Humvees, Humvee IED protection kits and gunner protection kits, improvised explosive device (IED) jammers and state-of-the-art body armor. Recommends additional increases of 30,000 Army and 5,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions. Provides a 2.7 percent pay raise for members of the armed forces. Increases end strength for the Army National Guard by 17,100 over the original budget request. The legislation provides an additional $471 million for National Guard personnel, operations and maintenance and defense health, as well as $318 million for procurement to support the recommended National Guard end strength of 350,000. Blocks the Department of Defense’s proposed fee increases retirees must pay under the TRICARE Standard health program and zeroes out co-pays for generic and formulary mail order prescriptions. ###
05.10.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 10, 2006 Wilson: “Democrats’ Adjectives Change, Tax and Spend Strategies Stay the Same” 185 Democrats Vote Against Tax Relief for American Families Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding 185 House Democrats who voted against the “Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005” (H.R. 4297). The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a 244 to 185 vote. “Earlier, I asked, ’who would Democrats vote for today - families or the federal government?’ Well, it appears we have our answer. Although House Democrats have changed the adjectives they use to describe Republican tax cuts, their tax and spend strategies have stayed the same. Unfortunately, the creation of 5.2 million American jobs in three years still doesn’t convince them that the American people deserve to keep more of their hard-earned income.” May 2003: “Wildly Irresponsible” Tax Relief “Today this House will vote on the Republicans' wildly irresponsible tax bill which fails to stimulate our economy or create jobs.” Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD); May 09, 2003 May 2006: “Grossly Irresponsible” Tax Relief “This blatantly unfair and grossly irresponsible legislation represents the last gasp of the Republican party’s failed economic policies.” Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD); May 10, 2006 ###
05.10.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 10, 2006 Wilson Joins House Republicans to Prevent Tax Increases Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) expressed his strong support for the “Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005”(H.R. 4279), which extends the alternative minimum tax relief, the increased limit on small business expensing, and the low rates on capital gains and dividends. Congressman Wilson made the following statement about this legislation: “The difference between Democratic economic policies and Republican economic policies can easily be summed up by asking one simple question: ’Who spends money better - families or the federal government?’ While Democrats believe the federal government has a better spending plan, Republicans continue to put their trust in American families. “In 2003, House Republicans passed a series of tax cuts which enabled American workers to keep more of their hard-earned incomes each month. Throughout the past three years, these measures have tremendously helped all Americans by creating over 5.2 million jobs, reducing the unemployment rate to the lowest in three decades, and growing the economy at a record pace. Although Democrats have seen American families benefit from lower taxes, they continue to suffer from the same delusions they had three years ago. Their plan to increase taxes and increase federal spending simply will not help our country. Fortunately, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 will give Democrats another opportunity to change their strategy and finally trust the American people with their financial future. Who will House Democrats vote for today - families or the federal government?” Democrat Delusion “None of these tax cuts is affordable. None of them creates jobs, and they are not fair. All of them do damage to our long-term economic growth and contribute to the national deficit.” Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA); May 09, 2003 Republican Reality: More then 5.2 million jobs have been created since August 2003. Democrat Delusion “Today this House will vote on the Republicans' wildly irresponsible tax bill which fails to stimulate our economy or create jobs,” Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD); May 09, 2003 Republican Reality Over the past 12 months, employment increased in 48 states. Democrat Delusion “Economists nation-wide are in agreement that this type of tax cut will do little or nothing to create jobs or stimulate the economy.” Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY); May 09, 2003 Republican Reality GDP grew at a strong 4.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter of this year. This follows our economic growth of 3.5 percent in 2005 - the fastest rate of any major industrialized nation. Democrat Delusion “Despite their efforts to deceive Americans, this tax cut will not create jobs or stimulate the economy.” Rep. Linda T. Sanchez (D-CA); May 08, 2003 Republican Reality In March 2006, four states set record low unemployment rates. Democrat Delusion It is questionable about how much it will doàà it is bound to increase interest rates and bound to slow down the growth of this economy, job creation, stifling growth and stifling job creation. That is our concern.” Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) Republican Reality The unemployment rate is 4.7 percent - lower than the average of the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. ###
05.09.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 9, 2006 Wilson Praises Boehner’s Efforts to Rein in Federal Budget Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of House Majority Leader John Boehner's (OH-08) efforts to rein in the federal budget: “Mr. Speaker, Webster’s dictionary defines emergencies as serious situations or occurrences that happen unexpectedly and demand immediate action. “As Congress considers this year’s emergency supplemental spending bill, I hope all of my colleagues will remember the definition of an emergency and support Majority Leader John Boehner’s strong efforts to ensure that we spend taxpayer money on America’s most urgent needs. “Last week, I was proud when he clearly articulated that the House will not take up an emergency supplemental bill that spends one dollar more than the President’s budget request. By declaring that Congress will use this funding for troops’ efforts in the Global War on Terrorism and rebuilding communities throughout the Gulf Coast, Majority Leader Boehner is leading House Republicans to rein in the federal budget and spend taxpayer dollars wisely. As the budget process continues, I am confident that Majority Leader Boehner will continue to define the difference between irresponsible wishes and American emergencies. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.09.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 9, 2006 Wilson Votes to Protect Dignity of Military Funerals Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke at a press conference in support of the “Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act” (H.R. 5037), which ensures that American soldiers are buried with dignity. He also voted in favor of this legislation, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a 408 to 3 vote. “I am absolutely sickened to think that anyone would shout obscene words and hateful language during funerals for America’s fallen soldiers. Freedom of speech is one of the most treasured rights granted by our Constitution, but people should not use this right to disrupt the funerals of men and women who have sacrificed their lives to protect our country. “As the father of three sons serving in the military, I am disappointed that Congress would even have to consider legislation to specifically prohibit the disruption of military funerals at national cemeteries. However, by supporting the Respect for Fallen American Heroes’ Act, I am comforted to know that America’s fallen heroes will now be guaranteed peaceful and dignified funerals.” Congressman Joe Wilson is a proud cosponsor of H.R. 5037, which bans protestors from demonstrating at military funerals in national cemeteries for 60 minutes before a funeral and continuing until 60 minutes afterward. Additionally, this legislation requires protestors to remain at least 500 feet from the funeral site and mourners, and includes a sense of Congress that all 50 states should adopt similar legislation. ###
05.03.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 3, 2006 Wilson Amendment to De-Link U.S. / Russia MOX Programs Passes Armed Services Committee Amendment Also Restores $34.7 Million for MOX Facility at SRS Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), announced that the Committee approved his amendment to de-link the United States and Russia mixed oxide (MOX) programs. His amendment, which also restores $34.7 million for the construction of the MOX fuel fabrication plant at the Savannah River Site (SRS), will be included in the FY 2007 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5122). “Members of the South Carolina and Georgia delegations have worked together for years to ensure that a MOX facility will be constructed at the Savannah River Site. As Representatives of the only proposed MOX site in the country, we are dedicated to moving forward with our long-standing commitment to dispose of weapons-grade plutonium and implement a safe and timely clean up of America’s Cold War sites. “Congress believes that the almost six year old agreement between the United States and Russia is more than simply words on paper. By separating the U.S. and Russia MOX programs, my amendment ensures that the pace of the Russia MOX program will not dictate the progress of the U.S. MOX program. Russia’s indecisiveness should not prohibit America from fulfilling its agreement. In addition to ensuring the creation of hundreds of South Carolina jobs, this amendment helps guarantee that our state will not become the permanent resting place for tons of plutonium. “The passage of this amendment also restores $34.7 million in funding for the construction of the MOX facility at SRS. I am committed to working with House Appropriators and my colleagues on the Senate side to restore the remaining MOX funding. “As I celebrate this significant victory for South Carolina and the Savannah River Site, I would like to express my sincere appreciatition to Chairman Everett and his capable staff for their assistance in securing the passage of this measure.” ####
05.03.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 3, 2006 HASC Approves Wilson Amendment to Study Legislation to Strengthen National Guard Washington, DC - Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), today announced that the Committee approved his amendment to require the National Guard Commission to study the “National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006” (H.R. 5200). The amendment will be included in the FY 2007 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5122). “While the National Guard has actively protected American families throughout our nation’s history, today the Guard plays an unprecedented role in the U.S. military. Approximately 40% of our troops bravely fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan are members of the National Guard, and their service is a critical component of our military strategy in the Global War on Terrorism. As we demand more from our citizen soldiers, we must revitalize our defense policy to accurately reflect the current responsibilities of the Guard. “From making the Chief of the National Guard a valued member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to providing the Guard with budgetary powers, H.R. 5200 offers realistic suggestions for strengthening this important branch of our military. I am thrilled that my colleagues agree that the National Guard Commission should seriously study this legislation and take the appropriate steps to move these proposals forward.” The National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006 (HR 5200), sponsored by Congressman Tom Davis (VA-11), would: ? Elevate the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to a four-star position and making the Chief part of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. ? Give the National Guard the budgetary power to acquire equipment essential to its mission so that the U.S. is better prepared to respond to emergencies. ? Require the Chief of the National Guard to identify gaps between federal and state capabilities to respond to emergencies, and to make recommendations to the Secretary of Defense to address those gaps. ? Mandate that the Pentagon’s budget proposal to specify separate amounts for training and equipment for the National Guard. ? Require the Deputy Commander of U.S. Northern Command to be a member of the National Guard to ensure that planning at NORCOM better encompasses the interests of the National Guard and the states. ###
05.02.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) May 2, 2006 Wilson Resolution Recognizing Israel’s Independence Passes Congress Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.Con.Res. 392, legislation sponsored by Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) which recognizes the 58th anniversary of the independence of the state of Israel. Congressman Wilson released the following statement of support for this resolution: “In the wake of the Holocaust, the nation of Israel was established as a refuge for millions of Jews who survived horrendous crimes committed by the Nazis. Over the past fifty-eight years, the Israeli people have demonstrated the resiliency of the human spirit while overcoming tremendous obstacles. Their country now serves as a source of pride for the Jewish people and a strong partner in democracy with over 160 countries. “Everyday, Israelis endure the threat of terrorism in their lives, but they remain optimistic about the future of their country. As Americans face a similar enemy in the Global War on Terrorism, we must continue to strengthen our relationship with this great nation. “As Israelis prepare to celebrate the 58th anniversary of their country’s independence, I would like to congratulate them on another remarkable year of freedom.” The resolution specifically: (1) Recognizes the independence of the State of Israel as a significant event in providing refuge and a national homeland for the Jewish people; (2) Commends the bipartisan commitment of all United States administrations and United States Congresses since 1948 to stand by Israel and work for its security and well-being; (3) Congratulates the United States and Israel for the strengthening of bilateral relations in the past year in the fields of defense, diplomacy, and homeland security and encourages both nations to continue their cooperation in resolving future mutual challenges; and (4) Extends warm congratulations and best wishes to the people of Israel as they celebrate the 58th anniversary of Israel's independence. ###
04.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C) April 26, 2006 Wilson Highlights Republican Efforts to Reduce Gas Prices Expresses Support for the Fuel Choices for American Security Act Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) joined Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-01), Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17), and other members of Congress in a bipartisan press briefing in support of the Fuel Choices for American Security Act of 2005 (H.R. 4409). He made the following statement: “The Department of Energy has reported that from 1970 to 2001, energy consumption in the South Carolina residential sector increased by 115.6%. While South Carolinians have grown more dependent upon energy sources to fuel their cars and heat their homes, America’s energy policy reflects the energy needs of a different era. House Republicans are committed to resolving this crisis by transforming our energy strategy. “Last December, Congress passed the Gasoline for America’s Security Act which will help expedite the construction of American refineries. Today, Republican Leaders continued to lead on this issue when they outlined specific, short-term steps to address high energy prices by opening up ANWR to produce American energy, banning price gouging, and streamlining the boutique fuels list. “The Fuel Choices for American Security Act is a realistic piece of legislation which will help deliver a long-term solution to America’s energy crisis. Providing tax credits to consumers who purchase hybrid vehicles, encouraging manufacturers to produce more efficient lightweight materials, and establishing goals to replace ten percent of gasoline with Ethanol in ten years are all reasonable methods that will make a remarkable difference in the future of American energy.” The Fuel Choices for American Security Act of 2005 offers a viable blueprint to fuel independence by helping transform the nation's transportation sector into a 21st Century model. It presents a new energy strategy which strengthens current supply, increases conservation efforts, and embraces new fuel choices. ###
04.11.2006	DISCOVERED: ECONOMIC TALKING POINTS FOR CLINTON'S CHICAGO SPEECH *Tuesday April 11, 2006 TO: Senator Hillary ClintonFROM: Clinton Speech Writing DepartmentRE: Chicago Speech - Economic Talking Points Senator, Tonight, you will make remarks regarding the “troubling issues” on the horizon of the American economy at the Chicago Economic Club. Please remember the following points: There’s a more than 95 employment rate, so focus on the less than 5 percent of Americans still looking for jobs. The unemployment rate is lower than the average of the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, so make sure to compare everything to the golden age of the 1950s. 5.1 million American jobs have been created since August 2003, so redefine success. State that you won’t be happy until a billion jobs are created in our country. Although employment has increased in 48 states, you still have 2 states to specifically reference in your remarks. Today’s college graduates face the best job market in five years so they should be able to afford higher taxes (exciting!!!). Since they are so successful, they probably won’t mind if you repeat your 2004 statement “We're going to take things away from you on behalf of the common good.” (Beth Fouhy, ’ San Francisco Rolls Out Red Carpet For The Clintons,’ The Associated Press, 6/28/04) Construction spending is at an all-time high, but use this to your advantage. As you predict economic doom and gloom, also mention that millions of Americans are sick and tired of the noise created by jackhammers, drills, and chainsaws. *SATIRE PRODUCED BY WILSON PRESS OFFICE
04.07.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W)202-468-3258 (C)211,000 Architects, Nurses, Waiters, Chefs Enter American WorkforceFriday April 07, 2006 Wilson Applauds March Job GrowthToday, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after the U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics released the latest employment report, citing an increase of 211,000 new jobs in the month of March:“When President Bush signed the tax cuts into law in 2003, he could have referred to the bill as the ’Friends and Family Plan’ because most Americans have seen their loved ones benefit from our country’s booming economy. Democrats continue to claim the tax cuts only benefit rich Americans but their rhetoric simply doesn’t match up to reality. Over 211,000 new jobs were created in March in all sectors of our workforce. From architects and waitresses to computer programmers and medical technicians, over 5 million Americans have discovered new career opportunities in the less than three years.”Just who are the 211,000 Americans with new jobs?(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)Architects, Engineers, Computer Programmers, ConsultantsEmployment in professional and business services increased by 52,000 over the month. The gain was spread among most of the sector's component industries, including architectural and engineering services, computer systems design, management and consulting services, and services to buildings and dwellings. Waiters and Waitresses, Caterers, Chefs Leisure and hospitality employment rose by 42,000 in March. Within the industry, employment in food services and drinking places continued to grow, with a gain of 33,000 over the month. SalespeopleIn March, retail trade employment increased by 29,000, with most of the growth occurring in general merchandise stores (26,000). Doctors, Nurses, TechniciansHealth care added 24,000 jobs in March; over the year, employment in the industry has risen by 293,000. Over the month, job growth occurred in hospitals (8,000) and in ambulatory health care services (16,000), which includes doctors' offices and home health care.Financial Advisors, Insurance Agents Employment in financial activities rose over the month. Credit intermediation and insurance carriers each added 7,000 jobs, following similar-sized increases in February.###
04.06.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT:Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W)202-468-3258 (C)Wilson Highlights Economic Benefits of U.S. - India Civilian Nuclear CooperationThursday April 06, 2006Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent a letter to members of Congress highlighting the potential economic benefits of a civilian nuclear agreement between the United States and India. Please see the attached letter and the following excerpts: Creating American Jobs“As Secretary Rice noted, ’as many as 3,000 to 5,000 new direct jobs in the United States and about 10,000 to 15,000 indirect jobs,’ could be created as a direct result of this agreement. The long term benefits are also enormous. India currently experiences numerous power shortages, which hinders its economic growth. By expanding civilian nuclear power, this agreement will enable the people of India to compete in the global economy. India’s middle class consists of 300 million people, and as they become more prosperous, they will increasingly rely upon U.S. goods and services.”Creating American Trade and Investment“India’s infrastructure needs more than $1 trillion of investment, which will provide new opportunities for the U.S. In 2005, U.S. merchandise exports to India increased by 30 percent over the previous year. Over the past four years, U.S. exports to India nearly doubled, and India is now our fastest growing export market. India’s economy is growing at seven percent, and future projections of economic growth are bright. We currently maintain a trade surplus with India in the services sector, and now is the time to lay a foundation with India to ensure free and fair economic trade. This agreement will solidify U.S.-India relations and have a positive economic effect in many areas, including defense procurement.”Congressman Wilson serves as past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. ###
04.05.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 5, 2006 Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02)Contact: Emily Lawrimore 202-225-2452 (W) 202-468-3258 (C)Iraq: The Security TrackWednesday April 05, 2006What do you get when Iraqi soldiers and coalition forces capture terrorists and discover AK-47 rifles, rocket-propelled grenade boosters, sniper scopes, plastic explosives, and blocks of TNT?A. Better trained Iraqi Security ForcesB. Safer Iraqi communitiesC. Progress in the Global War on Terror D. All of the above Yesterday, the American Forces Press Service reported, “Iraqi and coalition forces have scored several successes against insurgent fighters, seizing weapons caches and capturing suspected enemies, during missions over the past several days.” Today, Congressman Joe Wilson, Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, praised their progress on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “With every terrorist they detain and each weapon they discover, Iraqi troops and American soldiers save lives and improve our security. The events over the past several days are commendable, but they are not unique. By facing the terrorists overseas, we are confronting mass murderers before they strike American families again at home.”Security Success in Iraq(Source: American Forces Press Service)Monday, April 3, 2006:Iraqi soldiers from 2nd Brigade, 7th Iraqi Army Division, and coalition troops detained five suspects and discovered a weapons cache while patrolling near Khalidiyah. The five military-aged males were arrested for suspected insurgent activities. The cache contained three AK-47 rifles with 16 full magazines, a bag of detonation cord, blasting caps, and two rocket-propelled-grenade boosters. More than 300 rounds of loose 7.62 mm ammunition also were recovered.Iraqi soldiers from 1st Brigade, 1st Iraqi Army Division, discovered and cleared a cache found during a raid in southeastern Ramadi. The cache contained seven assorted mortar rounds, several hand-held radios, some artillery detonators, and one sniper scope. Sunday, April 2, 2006:Two suspected insurgents were captured during a synchronized joint raid led by Iraqi army troops. U.S. soldiers with the 1-8th Combined Arms Battalion, 3rd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, from Task Force Band of Brothers, assisted the Iraqi troops. The raid's objective was to capture insurgents known to be living in the area, prevent them from conducting further attacks on Iraqi and coalition Forces, and to gather intelligence. One Iraqi soldier suffered a minor injury during the mission.Iraqi soldiers from 3rd Battalion, 3rd Brigade, 1st Iraqi Army Division, and coalition troops detained four suspects in Khalidiyah. Troops detained the military-aged males for suspected insurgent activities during the course of conducting security patrols in the area.Iraqi soldiers from 3rd Battalion, 3rd Brigade, 7th Iraqi Army Division, and coalition troops detained three suspects and found a weapons cache near Karabilah. Troops caught and arrested two individuals suspected of insurgent activities and detained one person who was on a suspect list. The cache was found during a cordon operation northeast of Karabilah and contained materials to make suicide vests.Iraqi soldiers from the 7th Iraqi Army Division and coalition troops detained eight people near Ramadi. Troops were conducting presence patrols in the area and detained the eight military-aged males for suspected insurgent activity.Soldiers from the 4th and 6th Iraqi Army Divisions caught and detained a suspected triggerman after a roadside bomb attack in Fallujah.In Saqlawiyah Iraqi troops detained a man listed on a suspect roster for questioning.Iraqi soldiers from the 7th Iraqi Army Division and coalition troops found and seized a weapons cache near Hit. The cache contained 20 pounds of crushed illumination candle mixture, 11 hand grenades, 28 rocket-propelled-grenade launch motors, eight RPGs, 2 RPG launchers, five sticks of plastic explosive, 31 quarter blocks of TNT, 48 68 mm mortar rounds, and six AK-47 rifles among a wide variety of ordnance components and bomb-making materials. ####
04.04.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT:Emily Lawrimore202-225-2452 (W)202-468-3258 (C)Wilson Statement on DeLay’s RetirementTuesday April 04, 2006 Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding Congressman Tom DeLay’s (TX-22) decision to retire from Congress:“After selecting Tom DeLay in a four candidate Republican primary, the citizens of the 22nd district of Texas recently demonstrated their confidence in Tom’s ability to represent their best interests. Instead of falling for baseless political attacks, voters focused on Tom’s proven record of effective leadership and strongly endorsed his candidacy. “Although I am confident he would have won in November, Tom has once again acted to protect his constituents. His decision to retire reflects his strong belief that Texans deserve a race based upon ideas and values, rather than partisan politics. “America has benefited greatly from Tom’s efforts to create a Republican majority that reduces taxes, protects our country, and promotes conservative values. Tom has been one of the most effective leaders in the history of the United States Congress, and I am proud to call him my friend.” ####
04.03.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Emily Lawrimore202-225-2452 (W)202-468-3258 (C)Wilson, Graham Discuss Efforts to Honor Brigadier General Francis MarionMonday April 03, 2006 Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) spoke at the South Carolina State House in Columbia, South Carolina regarding the Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act (H.R. 5057). Senator Lindsey Graham also released a statement of support in favor of the legislation. “I am extremely proud of Brigadier General Francis Marion’s fight for freedom and his historic legacy of bravery during the Revolutionary War. While we are pleased to have a park dedicated to the ’Swamp Fox’ in our nation’s capital, I agree with fellow South Carolinians that the park should contain a statue of him on the premises. H.R. 5057 is the first step of a lengthy process to establish his statue in Marion Park, and I am confident that our efforts will be successful,” said Congressman Joe Wilson.Wilson continued, “I would specifically like to thank Ken Driggers and Nancy Stone-Collum of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, which is a conduit for the fundraising part of this process. They have been instrumental in ensuring that this project has the necessary funding and support. Additionally, I would like to recognize the South Carolina Humanities Council for supporting John McCabe, the man who originally had the vision to honor the ’Swamp Fox.’ John McCabe created the Francis Marion Park Committee to assist in the fundraising and planning efforts. The Committee includes B. Michael Carmody, John Warner, Charles Baxley, Dr. Walter B. Edgar, Sally Shropshire Williamson, Susan Poston Shirley, Eugene Simmons, Benjamin Zeigler, and Jeffrey Lewis.”Senator Lindsey Graham will lead the effort to pass the legislation in the Senate, “Francis Marion was an American patriot. He embodies the spirit and dedication to freedom that is shared by all South Carolinians. I want to thank Congressman Wilson for leading the Congressional effort to allow a statue of the Swamp Fox to be placed in the Washington park bearing his name. This is the perfect example of public-private cooperation to honor a great American.” The Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act authorizes the Marion Park Project and Committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation to establish a commemorative work on Federal land in the District of Columbia to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion. All members of the South Carolina delegation have signed on as cosponsors of this legislation. From Start to Finish: Honoring Brigadier General Francis Marion: Site Selection: After H.R. 5057 passes Congress, the National Park Service and National Capitol Memorial Advisory Committee will conduct a study to determine the best location for the statue. After their study is complete, they will announce a primary and back up site. Congressman Wilson is working to ensure that Marion Park (located at the intersection of E Street and South Carolina Avenue) is the primary site. The National Park Service will submit a final report to the National Capitol Planning Commission and the State Historic Preservation Office for approval.Monument Design: The Marion Park Project and Committee will select a designer for the statue, and choose a design concept. The National Park Service will approve the design and submit it to the National Capitol Planning Commission and Commission of Fine Arts to make necessary modifications and approve the final design.Fundraising: After the Marion Park Project and Committee completes its fundraising efforts, it will submit the approved drawings and specifications with cost estimates for project creation and construction and evidence of funds existing to the National Park Service. The Secretary of Interior will grant the final approval of the statue.Installation: The National Park Service will issue a construction permit on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior. The Marion Park Project and Committee will begin construction and maintenance of the Memorial. After the Memorial is dedicated, it will be transferred to the National Park Service for management with maintenance and preservation plans. ###
04.03.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT: Emily Lawrimore202-225-2452 (W)202-468-3258 (C) Wilson Praises South Carolina Supreme Court Ruling in Favor of Jasper CountyMonday April 03, 2006 Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding the South Carolina Supreme Court’s decision that Jasper County has the authority to build a commercial port on the Savannah River:“For the past decade, Jasper County has worked tirelessly to gain the right to build, operate, and own a port on the Savannah River. Today, the South Carolina Supreme Court confirmed that the County is authorized to carry out its visionary plan. “As Jasper officials work together to get their proposal back on track, I encourage Governor Sanford and the Legislature to support Jasper County’s efforts. Today’s ruling presents a wonderful opportunity for leaders in our state to work together to create jobs in our community and deliver tremendous economic benefits throughout South Carolina.” ###
03.29.2006	American soldiers, Coalition troops, and Iraqi Security Forces are working together to improve economic conditions throughout Iraq. In three years, they have made substantial progress in helping create a civil society which ensures freedom and opportunities for Iraqis, and strengthens the national security of the United States. Ambassador Daniel Speckhard, U.S. Director of the Iraq Reconstruction Management Office, recently highlighted the tremendous economic progress in Iraq: (American Forces Press Service “Official Reports Progress in Iraq's Reconstruction, Economic Development,” March 27, 2006) “Iraq's per capita income had fallen from around $4,200 per person in 1980, which at the time was higher than Spain, to $500 per person in March 2003, he said. Today it stands at $1,200 - ‘a significant advancement in a very short time,’ Speckhard said. “Speckhard pointed out that Iraq now has a free press, more than 2,000 Internet cafes, and more than 5 million cell phone users - up from virtually zero in 2003. All of these things help connect Iraq to the outside world ‘in ways that it never was before, providing freedom and opportunities for Iraqi citizens,’ he said. “In addition, more than 30,000 Iraqi businesses have been registered in the past year alone, he said. “If you look out into the streets, ...you'll see a very vibrant economy,’ Speckhard said. ‘People (are) buying consumer and durable goods - refrigerators, air conditioners, televisions, and so forth.” Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, praised economic progress in Iraq: “While naysayers focus on civil war in Iraq, American soldiers are busy creating a civil society in Iraq. As they work together with Iraqi Security Forces and Coalition troops, their efforts are producing undeniable economic advantages that truly improve the lives of Iraqis: new businesses, higher per capita income, and greater opportunities to interact with the outside world.” ###
03.29.2006	After leaders of the Democrat party unveiled their National Security Platform today at Union Station, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) expressed his concern about the sincerity and direction of their agenda: “Today, Democrats came together at Union Station to unveil their grand platform for National Security. Maybe they assumed that surrounding themselves with maps, trains, and destination signs would provide their party with a better sense of direction? “How can Democrat leaders seriously discuss their vision to strengthen our national security after voting against legislation to help law enforcement officials track down terrorists, opposing funding for American soldiers, and attempting to censure President Bush for a terrorist surveillance program? Until Democrats actually vote in favor of measures which strengthen our national security, their strong rhetoric will simply be more bells and whistles, and their platform will be stuck at Union Station.” Democrats’ National Security Platform Dead Ends Before Reaching Destination Destination #1: Eliminate terrorist breeding grounds Dead End #1: Democrats deny Iraq is the central front in the War on Terror Destination #2: End the spread of terrorists Dead End #2: Democrats opposed Patriot Act's reauthorization, which provides the tools to detect and disrupt terror Destination #3: Eliminate terrorists Dead End #3: Democrats oppose the Terrorist Surveillance Program, which monitors communications with known terrorists Destination #4: Increase “human intelligence” capabilities Dead End #4: Democrats led efforts to cut intelligence funding in the 1990s Destination #5: Support our troops in Afghanistan Dead End #5: Democrats voted against funding for troops in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq Destination #6: Win the War on Terror Dead End #6: Democrats Support Withdrawing Troops From Iraq Before Victory ###
03.28.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding the resignation of White House Chief of Staff Andrew H. Card, Jr. and the appointment of Office of Management and Budget Director Joshua B. Bolten as his successor: “While serving in one of the most challenging jobs in Washington, Andrew Card has been a model of loyalty and dedication. South Carolinians are particularly proud of Mr. Card, a distinguished graduate of the University of South Carolina who is widely respected for his tireless work on behalf of American families. As President Bush said today, he has served his nation during historic times and our country is stronger because of his leadership. “As Josh Bolten assumes his new role at the White House, I look forward to working with him to strengthen our national security and build upon America’s economic success. His extensive experience as a public servant has prepared him to help implement President Bush’s positive agenda.” ###
03.23.2006	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) circulated a letter to all members of Congress encouraging them to support H.R. 4974, bipartisan legislation to waive the application of certain requirements under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 with respect to India. “As we carefully consider all aspects of this legislation, I am hopeful my colleagues will agree that nuclear cooperation with India will improve our nonproliferation efforts, create more American jobs, and strengthen our national security,” said Wilson. The letter includes an editorial from The Post and Courier of Charleston, South Carolina regarding President Bush’s historic visit to India and the nuclear agreement between the U.S. and India. Following are excerpts from the article: Promoting Shared Values “United States and Indian interests intersect in many areas: in the fight against Muslim terrorism; in promoting democracy through a joint Global Democracy Initiative and a new United Nations Democracy Fund; in combating threats to public health such as AIDS and pandemic flu; in developing new energy technologies, including nuclear energy; and in trade. Economic ties are strong. United States exports to India rose 30 percent in 2005, and despite the controversial outsourcing of American service jobs to India, the United States trade surplus with India was $1.8 billion last year.” Promoting Peaceful Nuclear Technology “A proposal to share peaceful nuclear technology with a nation that has not joined the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty--is moving forward…If and when details are ironed out, and India opens its peaceful nuclear activities to international inspection, New Delhi will take its responsible place in the rank of the world’s nuclear powers. That will place great pressure on Pakistan to follow suit.” Promoting Democracy “By forging a new era in United States relations with South Asia, the President continues to build a foreign policy legacy.” *Please see a copy of the attached letter. ####
03.16.2006	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of legislation to be introduced today by Chairman Henry Hyde (IL-06) and Ranking Member Tom Lantos (CA-12) regarding the US-India agreement on civilian nuclear cooperation: “Today, we will witness another important building block in the development of the strategic partnership between the United States and India. By introducing bipartisan legislation to amend the Atomic Energy Act, Congress will initiate the important process of authorizing peaceful nuclear cooperation between two great democracies that share similar values, goals, and hopes for the future. “While the title of this agreement focuses on nuclear cooperation, the scope of this proposal reaches far beyond nuclear issues. Improved strategic relations with India will promote non-proliferation, increase our energy independence, provide environmental protections, strengthen our national security, and create thousands of new jobs for American workers. As the global economy becomes increasingly competitive and the threat of terrorism endangers all free nations, America faces a historic opportunity with our friend India. Our countries should take advantage of this unique chance to deliver tremendous mutual benefits to both Indian and American families. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.14.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding the Army National Guard’s announcement that it has surpassed its recruitment goals by seven percent for the first five months of fiscal year 2006: “As the Guard celebrates its best national record in 13 years, Americans are registering in historic numbers to serve their country, state, and community. Across the United States, volunteers are showing their resolve in completing the mission in the War on Terrorism,” said Wilson. “I am also pleased to announce that the South Carolina Army National Guard is now ranked 7th in the nation for recruitment. As a 31-year veteran of this unit and the father of two guardsmen, I am extremely proud of South Carolina’s enormous contribution to our national security.” Today, Congress will consider H.Res. 354, which expresses the U.S. House of Representatives support for ensuring that military recruiters have equal access to college campuses across the country for recruiting purposes. Congressman Wilson praised this legislation, “Effective military recruiters are the primary reason the National Guard has recently enjoyed such tremendous success in enlisting men and women to protect our country. If they are prohibited from visiting college campuses, the quality of our Armed Forces will decrease and millions of American men and women will miss out on tremendous opportunities to serve their nation. By echoing the Supreme Court’s unanimous decision to ensure access for military recruiters, Congress is helping protect a critical pillar of our national security.” ###
03.14.2006	Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) have been joined by 159 of their colleagues in calling on Congress to recognize the distinct nature of pension plans offered by rural cooperatives in the final version of the Pension Reform bill, currently being worked out between the House and Senate. “Providing workers with a secure, lifetime income is a benefit that we must protect for all workers including those who work for these co-operatives,” said Pomeroy. “As the differences are worked out between the Senate and House bills, it is vital that the provision protecting rural co-operative employees is part of the final bill.” “When Americans depend upon rural co-operatives for necessities like electricity and telephone services, Congress should not impose blanket pension reforms that will cause these organizations to dramatically increase their rates," said Congressman Joe Wilson. “Fortunately, over one hundred and fifty of my colleagues are joining us in urging House Conferees to recognize the unique nature of rural cooperative ‘multiple-employer’ pension plans and their lack of risk to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). At a time when energy costs are soaring - higher costs for pension benefits creates a no-win situation for rural American families.” In a rural co-operative “multiple-employer” pension plan, a large number of co-operatives combine their resources and funds into a trust that is dedicated to providing lifetime retirement income to the participating employees. Unlike corporate pensions, the trust would continue to pay benefits to participants even if the employee’s co-operative went out of business because the co-ops act as a backstop for each other. The letter urged the inclusion of a provision in the bill recognizing the special nature of these plans and emphasized that they pose no risk for the Pension Guarantee Benefit Corporation. “Maintaining a single defined-benefit plan for hundreds of employers permits co-operatives to pool experience and lower administrative expenses,” wrote the group. “We are concerned that if provisions…are not included in any final pension reform legislation, these co-operatives may be forced to either reduce pension benefits to their employees or pass along hundreds of millions of dollars in increased pensions costs through dramatically higher rates for necessities like electricity to their member-owners.” Nearly 110,000 Americans, in 47 states, participate in the defined-benefit pension plans offered by rural cooperatives. Please see the attached copy of the letter. ###
03.14.2006	This morning, Republican Members of Congress issued the following statements in response to Democrat Sen. Russ Feingold’s resolution to censure President Bush for ordering NSA Surveillance Wiretappings. Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC): “Senator Feingold’s call to censure President Bush for implementing a legitimate and effective terrorist surveillance program demonstrates that Democrats continue to value their political ambitions more than our national security. From Nancy Pelosi’s fierce fight against the Patriot Act to Howard Dean’s defeatist remarks about our troop’s efforts to Senator Feingold’s careless call to censure our President, it’s obvious that Democrats still have no positive plan to protect American families. As our enemies continue to issue threats daily against our country, Republicans will remain committed to pro-actively investigating, capturing, and detaining Al Qaeda operatives and any other terrorists who seek to attack our nation.” Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX): “Spending time censuring the President for implementing a legitimate program that works to protect Americans from another terrorist attack is alarming. Despite having two planes crash through the World Trade Center, killing thousands on American soil, and with terrorist attacks continuing around the world, and in Iraq, many Democrats appear to underestimate the threat against America. We cannot afford to forget the terrorist’s hatred of America and of the universal values of freedom and individual rights. Republicans in Congress are the ones responsible for enacting legislation that has made this country safer. We will continue to protect this country as we move forward.” Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA): “The fact that the Senate Democratic Leadership has failed to call this stunt what it is – political grandstanding – is outrageous. Senator Feingold’s actions reaffirm that the Democratic Party is more interested in playing politics than coming up with their own ideas. "Do Democrats have another way to monitor surveillance on communications with al-Qaeda? Do Democrats have a better way to protect Americans from another terrorist attack?” “Of course they don’t, that’s why Democrats are always willing to heckle the starting quarterback from the cheap seats but they are never willing to get in the game themselves. “Not one Democrat has offered an amendment or a bill to repeal this important national security program. They like to harp about it at Democrat fund raisers and at red meat partisan clubs but when it comes to actually trying to stop it they don't have the guts. Once you get past their left wing rhetoric, even their own members know this is a vital program.” Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-CO): “I thought the Democrats’ national security agenda couldn’t get any whackier, but they’ve outdone themselves once again. Russ Feingold and the Democrat base want an immediate troop withdrawal in Iraq and an end to monitoring terrorists’ calls into the U.S. What’s next, creating a Department of Radical Islamic Understanding? Feingold should at least be consistent and censure the Democrats who for months were briefed on the terrorist surveillance program and didn’t raise an objection. ###
03.10.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) expressed his enthusiasm for the U.S. Department of Labor’s announcement that 243,000 jobs were created in February: “After yesterday’s announcement that South Carolina’s unemployment rate has decreased by a full percentage point, today’s national report further demonstrates the tremendous strength of the American economy. As we celebrate thirty consecutive months of job growth, workers throughout our nation are reaping the benefits of Republican pro-growth policies. From construction workers and nurses to business people and teachers, Americans are finding jobs in their communities and keeping more of their well-deserved income. Congress must remain committed to cutting taxes and eliminating excessive government regulations to provide continued opportunities for America’s workers. Excellent Economic Indicators: (Source: U.S. Department of Labor) · 243,000 jobs were created in February 2006. · Nearly five million new jobs have been created since May 2003 (and more than two million in the last year alone). · There have been 30 consecutive months of uninterrupted job growth. ###
03.09.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the unemployment rate in South Carolina had dropped a full 1% to a new level of 6.2%: “Today’s extraordinary news demonstrates that South Carolina’s economy is improving and that Governor Sanford is leading our state in the right direction. When we have the second fastest job growth in the nation, it is obvious that his conservative policies are directly benefiting South Carolina’s families. While I am thrilled about this progress, I will remain dedicated to decreasing taxes and eliminating excessive government regulations to ensure that jobs continue to be created in our communities.” Economic Success in South Carolina: (Source: “South Carolina's jobless rate drops sharply,” Associated Press) In January, the unemployment rate in South Carolina dropped a full 1% to a new level of 6.2%. South Carolina has the second-fastest job growth in the nation this month. Overall, the state had 26,000 more people at work in January than it did a year ago. ###
03.07.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s unanimous decision to allow the military to continue recruiting on college campuses: “Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Armed Services Committee and a father of three sons serving in the military, I frequently have opportunities to meet with the dynamic young men and women of the U.S. military. I am always encouraged to hear them describe their pride as Americans and their strong sense of duty to their country. After witnessing the horrific attacks of September 11th, these young people understand that their generation will protect our freedoms in the future. “Yesterday, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously to ensure that men and women at colleges and universities will continue to have the opportunity to learn about serving in the United States military. America’s Armed Forces have created the broadest spread of freedom in the history of the world, which protects American families. By allowing military recruiters to visit college campuses, the Court has helped ensure that the U.S. military remains the best in the world. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.07.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) praised the passage of the USA PATRIOT Act Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act of 2006 (S. 2271) and the Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act (H.R. 32), two important pieces of legislation which demonstrate House Republicans’ ongoing efforts to work together for America: “Today, Congress passed two bills that protect American families and consumers,” said Congressman Wilson. “While Democrats desperately search for an agenda and continue to perfect the disappointing art of obstructionism, House Republicans remain focused on a positive plan that helps all Americans.” The USA PATRIOT Act Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act passed the House by a 280 to 138 vote and will ensure that law enforcement officials have the tools necessary to track down, capture, and prevent terrorists from carrying out acts of violence against America. Wilson applauded this bill, “Over the past five years, the Patriot Act has played a critical role in keeping American families safe from terrorism. Law enforcement officials rely upon the provisions in this legislation to successfully secure our communities, and they must continue to have the necessary tools to fully investigate and prosecute terrorists.” The “Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act” (H.R. 32), which strengthens U.S. anti-counterfeiting laws, passed the House by voice vote. As a cosponsor of this bill, Wilson strongly expressed his support: “From designer purses and prescription drugs to helicopter parts and brake pads, almost every item imaginable has been fraudulently reproduced by counterfeiters. While fake goods may seem harmless, they cheat American consumers, companies, and communities. Most importantly, they pose serious health and safety risks, and are even used by terrorists as a way to raise funds to support their operations. Today, the House acted to strengthen our laws to ensure that counterfeiters suffer serious consequences for their crimes.” ###
03.02.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding the announcement of a proposed civilian nuclear cooperation agreement between the United States and India: “Indian and American citizens value democracy, economic opportunity, and energy independence, and our countries are naturally suited to work together in the 21st century,” said Wilson. “Today, President Bush and Prime Minister Singh made a decision to unite our common goals in an agreement which will advance our strategic partnership, enhance our energy security, and strengthen our global nonproliferation efforts. This positive development is another symbol of the strong bond that exists between our two nations. I remain dedicated to gaining Congressional support for this landmark proposal.” Congressman Joe Wilson and Congressman Joseph Crowley (NY-07) previously served as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans. Today, they sent a letter of support for the proposed civilian nuclear agreement between the United States and India to all members of Congress. To view the letter, please see the attached document. ###
02.28.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, while preparing for his upcoming visit to India, President Bush recently highlighted the unique role India is playing in the 21st century. As the largest democracy in the world and one of the largest economies in the world, India possesses a rare combination of freedom and innovation which is paving the way for the country’s bright future. “The United States already shares a strong strategic partnership with India enhanced by the extraordinary success of 2.2 million Indian Americans. Our nations are working together to defeat the global threat of terrorism, support democracy around the world, and encourage fair trade. Last year, exports from America to India increased by thirty percent, clearly indicating a bright future for U.S. India trade with mutual benefit. “By traveling to India this week, President Bush is taking another step to cement the bonds of this strong relationship. I appreciate his leadership and am confident that he will witness the same positive developments that I saw during my recent visit to India. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
02.28.2006	Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) sent a letter to Chairman Jim Nussle of the House Budget Committee to express his concerns regarding President Bush’s proposal to cut Medicare funding in the Fiscal Year 2007 budget. He made the following statement regarding this letter: “While I strongly support most of President Bush’s budget proposal, I am concerned over certain elements of the Administration’s FY 2007 budget request for Medicare. More than 80 million Americans depend on their local hospitals and health systems for vital Medicare and Medicaid services. When seven out of ten American hospitals already suffer a financial loss by delivering Medicare services, now is not the time for drastic reductions that would place an additional burden on citizens and healthcare providers throughout our communities. I would like to encourage Chairman Nussle to join me in protecting this critical funding.” *Please see the attached copy of the letter. ###
02.24.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded $15,478 through the Fiscal Year 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Daufuskie Island Fire Department. The department will use the funding to provide public education safety programs for local families. “Everyday, South Carolina families face fires that could have been prevented if they had been aware of a few simple precautions,” said Wilson. “I am very happy to know that District Fire Chief Edward Boys and the Daufuskie Island firefighters now have additional funding to help teach people about the basics of fire prevention.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban, and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. ###
02.17.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the U.S. Senate approving the nomination of Reggie Lloyd to serve as U.S. Attorney for South Carolina: “While working with Reggie in the State Legislature, I was always impressed by his extensive judicial knowledge and unquestionable integrity. Over the years, I have enjoyed watching him as he has built a distinguished legal career and earned a remarkable reputation in South Carolina. “Today, I am honored to witness another important achievement in Reggie’s life. His swift Senate confirmation demonstrates that he possesses the knowledge and experience necessary to fill this important position. I would like to extend my congratulations to Reggie and his family. South Carolina is fortunate to have a man of such high caliber serving as our U.S. Attorney.” ###
02.16.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) expressed his strong support for the passage of H.Con.Res. 341, a bill he cosponsored which condemns the government of Iran for violating the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and urges the United Nations to hold Iran accountable to its international obligations: “Today, my colleagues and I overwhelmingly expressed our belief in international treaties and our commitment to preventing rogue leaders from gaining weapons of mass destruction to use against the American people and our allies. While President Ahmadinejad of Iran has stated that our measures are simply more ‘Western ballyhoo,’ I assure him that we will hold him accountable to his serious international obligations. H.Con.Res. 341 condemns the actions of Iran, urges members of the United Nations Security Council to proceed decisively against Iran’s noncompliance, and forfeits Iran’s right to develop any aspect of nuclear fuel. As the War on Terrorism is being waged throughout the world, we refuse to allow a dangerous and fanatical tyrant to succeed in his quest to acquire nuclear weapons,” said Congressman Wilson. ###
02.15.2006	Today, Members of the Victory in Iraq Caucus hosted a lunch in the Rayburn House Office Building regarding reconstruction operations in Iraq. Ms. Dawn Liberi, the Director of the U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID) Iraq Mission, and Brigadier General John F. Kelly led the discussion. “A stable and successful Iraq will directly improve the national security of our own country,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq Caucus. “Today, we were grateful to be joined by Director Liberi and General Kelly, two officials who recognize the tremendous importance of building a civil society in Iraq and are dedicated to successfully completing this mission. Under their leadership, thousands of brave American men and women are working tirelessly to help ensure Iraqis live in a stable, democratic, and prosperous state.” USAID Iraq Director Dawn Liberi currently oversees the largest U.S. Government reconstruction effort since the Marshall plan, with more than $5 billion in program resources. While describing USAID’s efforts in Iraq, Director Liberi stated, “Often, Americans see the images of car bombings, but they rarely see Iraqis as people, moving in their communities and looking forward to their futures. At USAID, we are working with some extraordinarily courageous Iraqis to grow their economy, strengthen their democracy, improve their education system, and advance their civil society.” To learn about USAID’s strategic accomplishments in Iraq, please visit: https://www.usaid.gov/iraq/accomplishments/. Brigadier General John Kelly, Legislative Assistant to the Commandant of the United States Marine Corps, said, “the Marines, from day one after the fall of Baghdad, immediately began the process that USAID is doing so well at today in building the country. This, and the development of the Iraqi security forces, are key to winning this fight.” In 2002, General Kelly served with the 1st Marine Division as the Assistant Division Commander and spent much of his two year assignment in Iraq. ###
02.14.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran, continues to deny the devastation of the Holocaust and encourage the elimination of Israel. As his message of hatred and fanaticism grows louder each day, the seriousness of his nuclear ambitions has become increasingly obvious. “Last week, the IAEA's Board of Governors, including our allies India, Canada, and Australia, voted overwhelmingly to report Iran to the U.N. Security Council. Although the Bush Administration built a case for international unity, Iran’s President persists in his quest for nuclear weapons. The U.N. must act quickly and strongly to hold Iran accountable for violating the Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty. “During the Cold War, Ronald Reagan advocated peace through strength. As the Iranian Regime continues to undermine peace and stability, leaders of free nations must work together to seriously address this grave threat. While President Ahmadinejad continues to pursue his agenda of terror, the Iranian people deserve a brighter future of economic expansion, not a war-mongering leader. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
02.10.2006	Today, Iraq’s Electoral Commission announced the certified results of the country's elections on December 15, 2005. Congressmen Mark Green (WI-08) and Joe Wilson (SC-02), Co-Chairs of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, congratulated the Iraqi people on accomplishing another key step in the formation of their new government: “Today, Iraqi election officials confirmed what so many of us have long anticipated – that the results of Iraq’s recent parliamentary elections were both successful and legitimate. This news is yet another clear sign of Iraq’s growing embrace of democracy and further confirmation that the Iraqi people are ready to march as one toward a brighter future. Although the newly-elected leaders of Iraq must still complete the difficult task of creating a permanent government, I have the utmost confidence that they are ready to shoulder this incredible responsibility,” said Congressman Green. “The Commission’s confirmation is a reminder of the tremendous progress that has been made in Iraq by U.S. troops and the Iraqi people. Only three years ago, the Iraqi National Assembly was a repressive institution that served as a rubber stamp for Saddam Hussein and his brutal regime. Today, the parliament represents the Iraqi people and is recognized internationally as a symbol of democracy. As Iraq’s newly-elected leaders prepare to officially serve their country, I would like to applaud them for their dedication to establishing a civil society in their country,” said Congressman Wilson. Iraqi Parliamentary Election Results: (Source: The Associated Press) · On December 15, 2005, 12.4 million (over 75%) Iraqis participated in their country’s first parliamentary elections. · Today, Iraq’s Electoral Commission confirmed the election results for the 275-seat parliament: o The United Iraqi Alliance won 128 seats o The Kurdish Coalition won 53 seats o The Iraqi Accordance Front won 44 seats o The Iraqi Front for National Dialogue won 25 seats o The remaining 25 seats are held by smaller parties · Under Iraq's new constitution, President Jalal Talabani must convene the new parliament within two weeks and he must name a new prime minister in the next 15 days. · Parliament then has 30 days to elect a new national president. ####
02.03.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) expressed his enthusiasm about the U.S. Department of Labor’s announcement that 193,000 jobs were created in January and that the national unemployment rate dropped to 4.7 percent, the lowest level in nearly 5 years: “As our national economy continues to grow at a historic pace, I cannot emphasize enough the positive impact of the tax cuts enacted by President Bush and Congressional Republicans,” said Wilson. “In communities throughout our country, American workers are finding it easier to find jobs and provide for their families. Today’s announcement reminds us that we must remain dedicated to decreasing taxes and eliminating government regulations.” America’s Economic Excellence: Source: The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) • Non-farm payroll employment increased by 193,000 jobs in January • The unemployment rate declined to 4.7 percent, down from 4.9 percent in December • Payroll employment has increased for 29 consecutive months, adding over 4.7 million job • The unemployment rate has fallen significantly over that period from 6.3 percent in June 2003, to the current rate of 4.7 percent • Over 2.1 million new payroll jobs were created over the last year ###
02.02.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding the results of the Republican leadership elections in the U.S. House of Representatives: “After an informative and respectful campaign between three qualified and honorable candidates, House Republicans now have a new Majority Leader. John Boehner is a man who already possesses an impressive record of leading members of Congress to achieve legislative victories that have improved the lives of Americans. While serving as Chairman of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, he consistently confronted challenges, thoughtfully considered the issues, and successfully guided his colleagues to deliver lasting solutions. I am confident he possesses the leadership abilities and vision necessary to serve as House Majority Leader. “As the new session of Congress begins, House Republicans face an extensive list of challenges and opportunities. From ensuring victory in the Global War on Terrorism to increasing our energy independence and strengthening our robust economy, we are focused together on a positive agenda that will directly benefit American families. Under the leadership of Speaker Hastert, Majority Leader Boehner, Majority Whip Roy Blunt, and Policy Chairman Putnam, House Republicans will steer our nation in the right direction.” New Members of the House Republican Leadership Team: House Majority Leader: Congressman John Boehner (OH-08) House Policy Chairman: Congressman Adam Putnam (FL-12) ###
01.31.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement after President Bush’s State of the Union Address: “When traveling throughout South Carolina during the month of January, I enjoyed speaking with constituents about their hopes for the future of our country. Security, job opportunities, affordable healthcare, and energy prices remain on the minds of most Americans. During his speech tonight, President Bush demonstrated that he is listening to the American people and actively addressing their needs. “President Bush continues to view his job as Commander in Chief as his most important responsibility. By leading U.S. soldiers to defeat our enemies and spread democracy throughout the world, he is protecting American families and ensuring the security of our nation. I sincerely appreciate his resolute leadership and unwavering dedication to victory in the Global War on Terrorism. “Tonight, he proposed a variety of specific initiatives that seize today’s opportunities and prepare for tomorrow’s challenges. By continuing to push for permanent tax cuts, President Bush is working to ensure that the tremendous economic growth of the past few years continues so that all Americans have jobs. By educating the American people about the benefits of Health Savings Accounts, he is endorsing more options to provide Americans with greater control and flexibility over their own healthcare. By calling for the use of alternative fuels and the construction of new power plants, he proves that he is serious about finding ways to increase our energy independence. “I share President Bush’s optimism for our nation, and believe that we will continue to excel. Our country is strong, and Americans will continue to demonstrate the courage that defines our history.” ###
01.13.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced that he will host receptions in all offices of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina prior to President Bush’s State of the Union Address on January 31, 2006: “The President’s State of the Union address has always given Americans a unique opportunity to preview what lies ahead for our nation,” said Wilson. “As we begin a new year, I look forward to learning more about President Bush’s agenda to protect American families in the War on Terrorism and ensure that our economy continues to grow in 2006. I am honored to invite all constituents and friends to join my staff and me for this important event.” Washington, DC Office: 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM 212 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC Midlands Office: 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM 1700 Sunset Boulevard West Columbia, South Carolina Lowcountry Office: 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM 903 Port Republic Street Beaufort, South Carolina *President Bush will deliver his annual State of the Union address on Tuesday, January 31, at 9:00 PM EST. ###
01.10.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced that he will hold Quarterly District Meetings in Bluffton and Cayce for constituents of the Second District of South Carolina: Bluffton Meeting Details: Date: Tuesday, January 17, 2006 Time: 7:00 PM – 8:00 PM Location: Bluffton Town Hall Auditorium 20 Bridge Street, Bluffton Cayce Meeting Details: Date: Wednesday, January 18, 2006 Time: 5:30 PM – 6:30 PM Location: West Metro Chamber of Commerce Visitor’s Center 1006 12th Street, Cayce Speaker: Walt Cartin, a veteran of the War on Terrorism, will speak about his service in Iraq and Thailand as an Infantry Company Executive Officer in the United States Army. Today, Mr. Cartin works as a Special Assistant for Congressman Wilson. After his remarks, constituents are invited to participate in a question and answer session with Congressman Joe Wilson and Mr. Cartin. * Congressman Wilson holds District Meetings four times a year in the Midlands and the Lowcountry to encourage open communication between constituents and the Second District Congressional Office. If you have any questions, please contact Butch Wallace in the Second District Midlands Office at 1700 Sunset Blvd., Suite 1, West Columbia, SC 29169 or by telephone at 803-939-0041. ###
01.07.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding Congressman Tom DeLay’s announcement that he will permanently step down as Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Throughout his remarkable career, Tom DeLay has honorably served the people of Texas and our country. He is one of the most effective and dedicated public servants I have ever had the opportunity to work with and I am honored to be his friend. By announcing today that he will permanently step down as Majority Leader, Tom has once again put the interests of the American people before his own self interests.” ###
01.06.2006	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement during press conferences in Columbia, Orangeburg, and Beaufort regarding his agenda for the Second Session of the 109th Congress: “I am confident that 2005 will be remembered as a year when Americans worked together to change the course of history. From enabling Iraqis to participate in their country’s first democratic elections to protecting our military bases during BRAC, citizens of the Second District of South Carolina played an instrumental role in events that will fill the pages of our history books. I am proud to represent such a remarkable and dedicated group of people. “In 2006, national security will remain my top priority. While we should be proud that the United States has not suffered an attack in over four years, we should not regard our safety as good fortune. We must remain vigilant in the War on Terrorism. As our brave troops continue to protect American families by serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other countries, I remain dedicated to ensuring that they successfully complete their missions. I will also continue to support American Veterans who have helped create the greatest spread of democracy in the history of the world. “Under the fiscal policies of President Bush, the national economy has surged ahead at an extraordinary pace. 4.5 million new jobs have been created, more Americans are working than ever before in our nation’s history, homeownership has reached an all time high, and minority homeownership is almost 60 percent. As we celebrate these national statistics, I will work to decrease taxes, eliminate excessive government regulations, and reduce the national debt to ensure that South Carolinians also benefit from this booming national economy. “High gasoline prices are a stark reminder of our country’s urgent need for greater energy independence. From the Savannah River Site to the University of South Carolina, the Second District is filled with innovative people who are creating new technologies that will increase conservation and utilize alternative fuel sources. As they continue to develop their ideas, they will have my full support. “As millions of baby boomers begin to retire this year, I am also dedicated to improving healthcare in our country. From educating people on the prescription drug benefit with health screenings to promoting Health Savings Accounts, I will work to ensure that all Americans enjoy healthier and happier lives. “Thank you for joining me today. I look forward to working with you throughout the New Year.” ###
12.21.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) proudly announced that he has nominated twenty-five South Carolina students to attend United States Service Academies: “These students deserve to be extremely proud of themselves,” said Wilson. “After completing an extensive interview process, they have been nominated to serve alongside America’s best and brightest students at our nation’s military academies. For centuries, these institutions have provided young men and women with a premier education and unparalleled training, producing some of our finest military leaders. As Academy graduates protect our country today in the War on Terrorism, I am proud to nominate a new generation to follow in their footsteps.” United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point · Mr. Harrison Von Wessinger, Chapin High School, Son of Von and Dianne Wessinger of Chapin United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs · Mr. Seth Gunn, Edisto High School, Son of Andy and Sherrie Gunn of Orangeburg · Ms. Whitney Kellett, attending The Citadel, Daughter of Ernest and Jan Kellett of Columbia · Mr. Taylor Marsh, Chapin High School, Son of Linda and Charles Marsh of Chapin · Mr. Javis Mike, Bluffton High School, Son of Thomas and Trina Mike of Okatie · Ms. Mary Skorupski, Irmo High School , Daughter of Mr. Richard and Nancy Skorupski of Columbia · Mr. Mathew Thomas, Jr., Community Bible Church Christian Academy , Son of Mathew and Jeanne Thomas of Hilton Head Island · Mr. Brantley Wilson, Community Bible Church Christian Academy, Son of Alvin and Patricia Wilson of Beaufort · Mr. Jonathan “Reid” Wilson, Naval Academy Preparatory School, Son of Monte and Mary Alice Veal of Columbia United States Military Academy, West Point · Mr. John Bradford, Hilton Head Preparatory, Son of Clarence and Cynthia Bradford of Hilton Head Island · Mr. Chris Basquill, Blythewood High School, Son of Patrick and Linda Basquill of Blythewood · Mr. Logan Bradley, Hilton Head High School, Son of Jeffrey and Anne Bradley of Hilton Head Island · Ms. Amy Broadus, Airport High School, Daughter of Tracey Owens of Lexington · Mr. Edward Fishman, Hammond School, Son of Dr. Gerald and Susan Fishman of Columbia · Mr. Daniel Kronz, Hilton Head Christian Academy, Son of Greg and Meredith Kronz of Hilton Head Island · Mr. Patrick Lawson, Hilton Head High School, Son of Son of Walter and Teresa Lawson of Hilton Head Island · Mr. Isaac Nam, Spring Valley High School, Son of John Martin and Sun Nam of Columbia · Mr. Joseph Poole, Dutch Fork High School, Son of William and Janice Poole of Columbia United States Naval Academy, Annapolis: · Mr. Richard “Brandon” Clark, Dutch Fork High School, Son of Carol and Richard Clark of Columbia · Mr. Paul Eklund Battery, Creek High School, Son of Mary Eklund of Beaufort · Mr. Travis Rigdon, A.C. Flora High School, Son of Jim Rigdon and Julia Spencer of Columbia · Ms. Amanda Senn, attending The Naval Academy Foundation, Daughter of Beverly and Gary Heinly of Chapin · Mr. John Snider, Thomas Heyward Academy, Son of John and Wendy Snider of Beaufort · Mr. Clarence “Clay” Steele IV, Beaufort High School, Son of Clarence and Chris Steele of Beaufort · Mr. Mark Surratt, Airport High School, Son of Clark and Jan Surratt of Springdale ###
12.19.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has authorized the commissioning of a portrait of Dalip Singh Saund, the first Asian American and first Indian American ever elected to Congress. “From a small village in India to the halls of Congress, Dalip Singh Saund demonstrated that a person with perseverance and optimism can overcome tremendous obstacles and achieve remarkable successes. While working for American citizenship and serving as the first Indian American ever elected to Congress, Mr. Saund became a political pioneer of the Asian American community. His relentless dedication is an inspiration for all Americans,” said Wilson. “Today, I am thrilled to announce a tribute to Dalip Singh Saund and his extraordinary legacy. By permanently placing his portrait on Capitol Hill, we will commemorate his service and recognize America’s unique culture, which enables all Americans regardless of race, religion, or national origin, to reach the very heights of success. “I would particularly like to express my appreciation to Clerk of the House Karen Haas, House Curator Farar Elliott, and my Legislative Director Dino Teppara for their hard work during the commissioning process.” Congressman Wilson introduced legislation during the 108th and 109th Congresses (H.Res. 753 and H.Res. 31 respectively) which called on Congress to commission a portrait of Dalip Singh Saund. The portrait will be completed in approximately one year, followed by an unveiling ceremony on Capitol Hill. ###
12.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding President Bush’s decision to nominate Reginald I. Lloyd to serve as the United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina: “Since working with Reggie in the South Carolina General Assembly, he has proven to be a person of the greatest ability and the highest integrity. His most recent accomplishment demonstrates his sterling reputation and his commitment to delivering justice in our state. I am absolutely thrilled that President Bush has selected him to serve in position that has a tremendous impact upon the people of South Carolina. I am confident he will be swiftly confirmed by the Senate.” ###
12.16.2005	“The House of Representatives has unshakable confidence that …United States Armed Forces, along with Iraqi and Coalition forces, shall achieve victory in Iraq.”Today, members of the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Res.612, confirming their commitment to victory in Iraq. Congressmen Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Mark Green (WI-08), Co-Chairs of the Victory in Iraq Caucus, made the following statements about this important resolution: “Today, Congress firmly demonstrated its unwavering commitment to Victory in Iraq. As U.S. soldiers risk their lives to protect our country, they deserve to know that we believe in their mission and recognize their continued success. By supporting the presence of U.S. soldiers in Iraq and opposing an artificial timeline, we have sent a strong message to terrorists: we will not back down and they will not determine the destiny of Iraq,” said Wilson. “Following the successful completion of its first parliamentary elections, it’s clear that democracy has begun to flower in Iraq. But, despite this great victory for the Iraqi people and our brave troops, enormous challenges still lie ahead. That’s why it’s crucial that we, as a Congress, continue supporting through both word and action the cause of freedom in Iraq. This resolution sends another clear message that we remain committed in that fight,” said Green. H. Res 612 resolves: • The House of Representatives is committed to achieving victory in Iraq; • The Iraqi election of December 15, 2005, was a crucial victory for the Iraqi people and Iraq's new democracy, and a defeat for the terrorists who seek to destroy that democracy; • Encourages all Americans to express solidarity with the Iraqi people as they take another step toward their goal of a free, open, and democratic society; • The successful Iraqi election of December 15, 2005, required the presence of United States Armed Forces, United States-trained Iraqi forces, and Coalition forces; • The continued presence of United States Armed Forces in Iraq will be required only until Iraqi forces can stand up so our forces can stand down, and no longer than is required for that purpose; • Setting an artificial timetable for the withdrawal of United States Armed Forces from Iraq, or immediately terminating their deployment in Iraq and redeploying them elsewhere in the region, is fundamentally inconsistent with achieving victory in Iraq • The House of Representatives recognizes and honors the tremendous sacrifices made by the members of the United States Armed Forces and their families, along with the members of Iraqi and Coalition forces; and • The House of Representatives has unshakable confidence that, with the support of the American people and the Congress, United States Armed Forces, along with Iraqi and Coalition forces, shall achieve victory in Iraq. ####
12.15.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding Iraq’s historic parliamentary elections: "When millions of Iraqis courageously cast their ballots today, they demonstrated their enthusiasm about living in a society where each voice matters and each person has a stake in the future of their country. Conducted by Iraqi Security Forces, the parliamentary elections were a political milestone and a clear symbol of the transfer of responsibility from U.S. and Coalition soldiers to Iraqi troops. Democracy in Iraq will ensure that the country does not become a permanent haven for terrorists who ultimately seek to attack American families and citizens of all free nations," said Congressman Wilson. Iraq Election Update: The largely peaceful election, which will raise U.S. hopes that a stable government can pave the way for American troops to pull out of Iraq, was in sharp contrast to January's vote for an interim assembly, when 40 people died. Turnout in 10 hours of voting was at least 10 million, or 67 percent, Election Commission chief Hussein Hendawi told Reuters, much higher than the 58 percent seen on January 30. A nationwide three-day traffic ban, and the presence of 200,000 Iraqi soldiers and police backed up by U.S. troops, appeared to succeed in protecting 6,000 polling stations.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" /> Source: “Big turnout in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Iraq election despite scattered attacks,” Reuters, December 15, 2005 ###
12.14.2005	On the eve of national elections in Iraq, members of the Victory in Iraq Caucus expressed their support for democracy in Iraq and solidarity with the Iraqi people: “In October 2002, Saddam Hussein incredulously reported he received 100% support during a sham election in which he was the only candidate in the race. Three years later, due to the bravery of American troops and Iraqi security forces, the people of Iraq now have a historic opportunity to select 275 individuals from over 307 political parties to serve on their national Council of Representatives. As the Iraqi people continue down the path to democracy, they should know that the American people are proud of their continued successes and believe in the future of Iraq.” Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) Co-Chair, Victory In Iraq Caucus “Tomorrow, the people of Iraq will have another historic opportunity to head to the polls and chart the course of their democracy for years to come. This election is the direct result of the tireless work of our dedicated troops, and the sheer determination of the Iraqi people who, two times before, have courageously withstood the threat of terrorism to make their voice, and vote, heard. Today, we must stand with the Iraqi people in celebrating this great accomplishment, and continue paying tribute to the extraordinary efforts of our brave servicemen and women.” Congressman Mark Green (WI-08) Co-Chair, Victory In Iraq Caucus “When Iraqis take to the polls tomorrow, it is important for them to know that they do so with the support of their democratic friends in America. Standing behind them will be the American people, our coalition partners, and all those around the world who stand as champions for liberty. By celebrating our solidarity behind those who have made Iraqi freedom a reality, we will send a clear and irrefutable signal to those who prosper through terror that freedom is on the march and will not be intimidated.” Congresswoman Thelma Drake (VA-02) “The emergence of democracy in Iraq is vitally important to the future of Iraq and the future security of peaceful countries around the world. With each election, the Iraqi people move closer to a true democratic society. They are dedicated to this goal and head to the polls despite the danger they face--this more than anything gives me confidence that they will be successful. We must stay the course to give them this opportunity. I am very proud of our men and women in uniform who made this election possible. Their determination, dedication and skill have once again brought freedom to an oppressed people.” Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) “In just 36 months, the Iraqi people have shifted their lives from dictator to democracy. This has not been easy, and their struggle to reform their country after more than 30 years under a brutal regime is far from over. But the courage and resolve of Iraqis to stand up to terrorists is inspiring. As Iraqis go to the polls a third time this year, we must reaffirm our commitment to stay the course.” Congressman Geoff Davis (KY-04) “My step son and his fiancée serve proudly in Iraq as Marines and their confidence in the mission is a testament to this great country’s role of spreading democracy and liberty. There can be no question that these are historic elections in Iraq and they must be seen for what they are: a turning point in a country that has known too much tyranny and blood in its history. When the Iraqi people vote for their first ever democratically elected national assembly, they will be voting for a future of hope, prosperity and freedom and they will be rejecting the failed ideals that the Islamist extremists espouse. A great day is dawning on the Middle East and history will prove us right." Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) “We are witnessing a monumental demonstration of democracy’s appeal as the Iraqi people return to the polls this week. We cannot underestimate the importance of this day, not only for the Iraqi people but for those who seek freedom across the globe. Democratic successes in Iraq send a resounding message to terrorists and all who stand in the way of freedom that liberty can and will triumph tyranny.” Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11) “We stand with the Iraqi people at this pivotal moment as they vote in free elections and take another crucial step toward establishing an independent, working democracy. Iraq’s citizens have shown great courage, in the face of terrorists’ deadly attempts to prevent freedom from taking root. This election is a testament to the Iraqi people’s commitment to building a stable democracy and to our troops’ hard work and many sacrifices. The least we can do is support the sacrifices they have made for freedom.” Congressman Paul Ryan (WI-01) “Tomorrow, the Iraqi people will head to the polls and cast another vote for a free and open society. This vote stands directly in opposition to a government predicated on terror and fear and ruled by one of the world’s most vicious dictators. Tomorrow’s parliamentary elections in Iraq have the makings of a watershed moment in history, not only for the Middle East, but for the long-term security of the United States. Now, more than ever, America’s leaders must stand united behind the Iraqi people as they venture forward in hope of a better future.” Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) “Elections in Iraq symbolize the spread of freedom in a repressed region responsible for terrorist attacks in the United States and around the world. This is a significant breakthrough in our effort to get to the root cause of terrorism. Our military deserves great praise for their work in bringing this mission so far in such a short period of time. All of us are witness to a momentous EVENT in history, and a moment that will help determine the sort of world our children inherit.” Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) “What a difference a year makes. In 2005 alone, the Iraqi people elected a Transitional National Assembly, drafted and adopted a constitution, and this week they will elect 275 Representatives who will serve four year terms on the Council of Representatives. The ideals of Freedom and Democracy are taking hold in the entire region, and as we witnessed in Afghanistan, each vote cast by the Iraqi people sends a strong and unmistakable message to terrorists everywhere that they are not welcome. We must remember that Iraq is the central front in the global war on terror, and each step their nation takes toward freedom and democracy is one step closer to victory. It is important that the Iraqi people, our men and women in the military, our allies, as well as our enemies, understand that we will stay the course until victory is achieved; because, the security of our nation depends on our willingness to take action against threats before they materialize on our city streets.” Congressman Gresham Barrett (SC-03) ####
12.08.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) voted in support of the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005 (H.R.4297), which passed the House of Representatives by 234-197. This legislation will extend the reduced tax rates on capital gains and dividend income through 2010. "After watching the American economy continue to flourish as a direct result of the 2003 tax cuts, today’s vote was simply common sense," said Congressman Joe Wilson. "Over 57 million American families own stocks either directly or indirectly. By lowering their taxes, we have given them the opportunity to invest and spend more of their hard-earned money. It’s a smart economic policy that ultimately benefits all Americans." Economic indicators demonstrate the benefits of tax cuts. Since 2003: 4.5 million new jobs have been created, More Americans are working than ever before in our nation’s history, The unemployment rate is lower than the average of the past three decades, The economy grew at 4.3 percent over the past 10 quarters, Tax receipts increased by $247 billion in just one year after the Bush tax cuts, the largest increase ever. ###
12.07.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement: “With the death of my friend Governor Carroll Campbell, our state lost a true South Carolina hero today. “Governor Campbell led an extraordinary life, demonstrated by his commitment to his family and his community. As a devoted family man, he was always attentive to his wife Iris and his sons Carroll and Mike. While working in Washington and Greenville, he was widely respected as a business leader who valued integrity and honesty. “Most South Carolinians will remember Governor Campbell for his dedication to improving their lives. Throughout his service in the State Legislature, U.S. Congress, and Governor’s office, he was a true statesman. As a member of the State Senate, I was fortunate to witness his passion for restructuring the government and ensuring greater access for citizens. His vision helped create economic development, bringing BMW to Greer and Michelin to Lexington. “As a political leader, he effectively changed the face of politics in our country by establishing a Republican majority in South Carolina. On the national level, he was a key ally of Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and George W. Bush. “The Wilson family extends its deepest sympathy to the Campbell family.” ###
12.07.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, Congress will soon consider implementing legislation to support civil nuclear cooperation between India and the United States. I strongly support this initiative, which is a critical component of the U.S.-India Joint Statement of July 18th reached during the historic visit of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to Washington this past summer. “The civil nuclear agreement is a major step forward for the United States and global nonproliferation policies. In the U.S.-India Statement of July 18th: ‘President Bush conveyed his appreciation to the Prime Minister of India’s strong commitment to preventing WMD proliferation and stated that as a responsible state with advanced nuclear technology, India should acquire the same benefits and advantages of other such states.’ “After my meetings in New Delhi last week, I am convinced that our strategic partnership with India will help ensure our own future security and prosperity working together for victory in the war on terrorism. “In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11, our generation's December 7.” ###
12.06.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding ongoing progress in Iraq: “While President Bush clearly outlined his strategy for Victory in Iraq last week, soldiers of the 2nd Iraqi Army Brigade were finishing their first day of independently conducting military activities in Hillah, Iraq. After undergoing extensive training and testing by Coalition forces, these soldiers have proven that they are capable of protecting and securing their country. “Each day, Iraqis are playing a larger role in ensuring that democracy and freedom prevail in their nation. On December 15th, over 225,000 Iraqi soldiers will be responsible for conducting security operations during Iraq’s nationwide election. “The constant progress in Iraq would not be possible without the tremendous dedication of the brave soldiers who wear the uniform of the United States military. Our troops understand the necessity of victory in the War on Terrorism to protect American families. “As U.S. troops continue to successfully complete their mission, they should take great pride in knowing that they are furthering freedom throughout the world and securing the future of our own nation.” To read more about the recent progress of the 2nd Iraqi Army Brigade, please click here: https://www.dod.mil/news/Nov2005/20051130_3483.html ###
12.02.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded $96,352 through the Fiscal Year 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Long Branch Fire Department in Barnwell, South Carolina: “Long Branch firefighters do a terrific job of protecting South Carolina families. As a recipient of this grant, the Department will improve its Operations and Safety programs and continue to build upon its strong record in the Barnwell community. I am thrilled to congratulate Fire Chiefs Tony Dicks and Horace Delk, Jr. on this critical funding.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban, and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. ###
11.30.2005	Today, Co-Chairs of the Victory in Iraq Caucus Congressmen Mark Green (WI-08) and Joe Wilson (SC-02) commended President Bush for his speech outlining the path forward toward victory in Iraq. This document spells out the broad strategy the President first set forth in 2003 and provides an update on strong progress already made as well as the remaining challenges to ensure victory. “Today the President laid out a detailed plan for achieving victory in Iraq – one that builds off the victories made possible by our brave troops, and one that recognizes the incredible challenges that still lie ahead. The coming weeks and months will prove absolutely critical in strengthening the democratic institutions now in place and helping the citizens of Iraq assume greater control over their own security. But this strategy gives us clear benchmarks for moving forward, and signals to the Iraqi people that the United States remains a committed partner in their march toward freedom and prosperity,” said Congressman Mark Green. “As President Bush clearly explained his plan for Victory in Iraq today, our brave men and women in uniform continued to effectively execute this critical strategy. Each day, American troops are achieving the political, economic, and security successes that will enable Iraqis ultimately to take full control of their country,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “Although it is unfortunate that the President’s critics often ignore the progress in Iraq, it’s simply dangerous for them to assume that immediately leaving Iraq will eliminate our challenges in the War on Terrorism. As President Bush said today, ‘If we were not fighting and destroying this enemy in Iraq, they would not be idle. By fighting these terrorists in Iraq, Americans in uniform are defeating a direct threat to the American people.’ The President’s strategy is working and is necessary for the future of our nation.” To view a copy of the National Strategy for Victory in Iraq, please click on the following link: https://www.whitehouse.gov/infocus/iraq/iraq_strategy_nov2005.html ###
11.18.2005	Last night, the House passed the Deficit Reduction Act (H.R. 4241) with a vote of 217-215. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement about this critical legislation: “Last night’s vote was a shining example of fiscal responsibility and a huge victory for American taxpayers. By securing over $50 billion in savings in the federal budget, the Republican Congress demonstrated that we are sincerely committed to decreasing the deficit and reforming government spending habits. “I am extremely discouraged that not a single Democrat supported this fiscally sound legislation. As our nation continues to pay for the massive reconstruction costs of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we simply cannot afford their tax and spend proposals. The Deficit Reduction Act is an important step in a long-term plan that will hold the federal government accountable and ensure that hardworking Americans do not bear the burden of bureaucracy.” The Deficit Reduction Act contains provisions that trim the deficit and reform government programs, including: Saving and strengthening Medicaid by adopting provisions offered by the bi-partisan National Governors Association; Lowering prescription drug costs; Reducing waste, fraud, and abuse; Strengthening and simplifying student loan programs; Rebuilding community first responder capabilities by freeing up vital spectrum airwaves; Protecting workers’ pensions by placing the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) on a more solid financial foundation and protecting taxpayers from the cost of a massive bailout; Increasing heating assistance for low-income Americans by assuming a $1 billion (50% increase) in additional funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP); Expanding Welfare Reform by reauthorizing the successful welfare reform policies in TANF and providing an additional $1 billion in funding. ###
11.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) applauded the passage of the Transportation, Treasury, HUD, Judiciary, and District of Columbia Appropriations Act of FY 2006 (H.R. 3058), which included over $5.2 million for the roadways in the Second District of South Carolina. “We are making important progress in improving the safety and infrastructure of our roads and highways,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “Whether South Carolinians are using the evacuation routes in the Lowcountry or driving throughout the Midlands, they should feel safe as they travel in the Second District. I am pleased about this vital funding and will continue to work to improve our roadways.” Projects Funding Harden Street $100,000 Assembly Street $1,300,000 Highway 278 $2,250,000 Highway 1-26, US1 Airport Connector $750,000 Lexington Connector $893,000 ###
11.18.2005	Today, Members of the Victory in Iraq Caucus expressed their strong support for the U.S. mission in Iraq: “Today, the brave men and women of the United States military are fighting in a war that will determine the course of our nation and will guarantee the freedoms of future generations of Americans. Their mission is not easy and it will not be completed overnight. As our soldiers continue to demonstrate strength and achieve victories on the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan, Congress and the American people must also demonstrate the same resolve. We will successfully complete the mission in Iraq.” Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) Co-Chair, Victory In Iraq Caucus “Withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq at this time would send the completely wrong message to our brave troops, the Iraqi people, and the terrorists who want nothing more than to see America cut and run. With the future of Iraq still at stake, pulling out right now would undermine all the outstanding progress we've made so far, and signal to our allies throughout the world that America cannot keep its word.” Congressman Mark Green (WI-08) Co-Chair, Victory In Iraq Caucus “Having been to Iraq, I remain firmly in support of our cause. Saddam Hussein and no one else made Iraq the central front in the war against terrorism. His removal was a key victory in that war. Abandoning Iraq now, as some suggest, would guarantee the failure of the mission that the troops I met with said is worth fighting for.” Congressman Michael G. Oxley (OH-04) “The terrorists’ strategy is not to defeat America in Iraq – they know they can’t. Their strategy is to defeat America in America. If America quits, if America turns back now, no nation will be safe from terrorism again. Terrorists will learn that they can wait us out, one public opinion poll at a time. We must persist in Iraq and Afghanistan until these nations are no longer safe havens for terrorism. We have ‘taken the hill’ against the terrorists. Too many Americans have sacrificed their lives for us to give it back now.” Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) “Immediate withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq and Afghanistan would demoralize our troops, hearten our enemies and strike a body-blow to the movement toward freedom and self-government in those nations. We must not dishonor the brave efforts of those who have served and died. Having a son who served as a Marine Officer in Fallujah, I understand the concern that naturally arises when young Americans are in harms way. Yet I also understand the absolute necessity of supporting their efforts and the efforts of free Iraqis to establish a representative democracy. No other outcome will have acceptable consequences for the future of liberty in the Middle East and America’s security.” Congressman Todd Akin (MO-02) “I went to Iraq to talk with our troops. I found motivated professionals dedicated to their work, and they only asked for our support so that they could complete the mission. We must stay the course in Iraq and end our involvement with success and honor.” Congressman Cliff Stearns (FL-06) “The message I hear from our troops -- those in the enlisted ranks and my West Point classmates serving in the Middle East -- is that we are making progress in Iraq. We are winning the global War on Terror. We honor those who have sacrificed to give a voice to those who were silenced for decades under a despotic regime and who no longer live in darkness. We must continue to stand strong together for our troops.” Congressman Geoff Davis (KY-04) “I believe if you asked our brave men and women in uniform over there fighting in Iraq whether or not they would like to pull out before accomplishing their mission, they would completely reject that notion and I believe them too. I support of our brave men and women of the United States military, the coalition forces, and their Iraqi counterparts, who are sacrificing so much in order to secure a free, stable, and safe Iraq. Iraq will not only be shining example of democracy flourishing in a once-troubled region, it will ultimately secure a greater peace and stability for all Americans.” Congressman Dan Burton (IN-05) “As the political process continues to move forward in the newly democratic Iraq, we must continue to strongly support our men and women in uniform and their mission. Instead of cutting and running, it is essential for our nation to complete and win this critical battle in the War on Terrorism.” Congressman Wally Herger (CA-02) “Our military men and women are doing a tremendous job in Iraq, as they work with Iraqis to secure their country and combat the terrorists who want so desperately to prevent freedom from taking root there. Our troops deserve to hear messages of strong support and thanks from us - not calls for withdrawal that merely give hope to the enemy. Given a chance, the Iraqi military and political system will become strong enough to defend the Iraqi people on its own. But pulling our troops out now would undermine this goal and provide an opening for al Qaeda and its terrorist brethren.” Congressman Paul Ryan (WI-01) “I appreciate President Bush’s continued leadership through this challenging time in our nation’s history and I couldn’t be more proud of our military men and women who sacrifice everyday to ensure our country remains safe and secure. Our world changed on September 11th and the recent attacks in Jordan are a stark reminder of how real the threat remains today. We have a simple choice – fight our enemies in the streets of Kabul and Baghdad, or fight them in the streets of Washington, DC, Atlanta, GA, or Greenville, SC. The soldiers fighting the war on terror in Iraq need to know that their government is fully behind them and their mission. I want every one of those brave men and women to know they have my full support. No war is easy – it will take patience and perseverance to finish our mission, but a lesser result would only encourage our enemies – a fact our soldiers know well.” Congressman Gresham Barrett (SC-03) “Pulling our troops out of Iraq before the job is done would do nothing but dishonor the sacrifices our men and women in uniform have already made. Through their hard work, our nation is helping Iraq lay the groundwork for freedom and self-determination. That cause could not be more vital in a country that was plagued for so many years by tyranny. I believe the U.S. must support our troops, stay the course, and complete our work in Iraq. Both the fate of democracy in the region and our very way of life depend on it.” Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32) “Our troops are in fact winning the War in Iraq, with new progress each day towards turning the country back over to Iraqi authority under a peaceful democratically-elected government. But thanks to the irresponsible, partisan political statements of Democrats, when we start to gradually reduce our troop strength next year it will be painted by Al Qaeda as a retreat, instead of the fruits of victory. Rep. Murtha has undermined the sacrifice and struggle of American Armed Forces in harm's way, in a shameful grab for political gain.” Congressman Charlie Norwood (GA-09) “When a former President tears down the mission of our men and women in uniform that's disgraceful. When he does so on foreign soil, it's insulting. Those calling for immediate withdrawal from Iraq are more concerned with their own political futures than what is best for our national security and our armed forces. I support this war, I support our troops, and I believe this fight for the free world is a battle we must not give up on and must not lose.” Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) “We need to get the job done in support of freedom and to eliminate Al-Qaeda terrorists around the world. In case people have forgotten, this is the same thing that happened in Vietnam. Peaceniks and people in Congress – and America - started saying bad things about what was going on over there. Let me tell you what it did for troop morale. It’s a real downer. I just pray our troops and their families can block this noise out and know that I will fight like mad to make sure our troops have everything they need - for as long as they need - to win the global war on terrorism.” Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) ####
11.17.2005	“We cannot prevail in this war as it is going today.” Rep. John Murtha, (D-PA), May 6, 2004 “The first stage: Expel the Americans from Iraq.” Ayman Zawahiri, al Qaeda’s number two leader, October 2005 “Continued military action in Iraq is not in the best interest of the United States of America.” Rep. John Murtha, (D-PA), November 17, 2005 Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) spoke out strongly against statements by Congressman John Murtha (D-PA) and other House Democrats regarding their reckless and irresponsible calls for troop withdrawal from Iraq: “After a leading Al-Qaeda terrorist recently stated that his goal was to expel Americans from Iraq, it is reckless for Congressman Murtha and House Democrats to agree with Zawahiri that the United States should withdraw our troops from Iraq before they complete their mission. Instead of proposing winning solutions for the Global War on Terrorism, Democrats are throwing up their hands and waving the white flag of surrender. Democrats have no positive agenda, no vision, and no sense of leadership. As our brave men and women in uniform continue to protect our country, Nancy Pelosi, John Murtha, and other Democrats should not embolden our enemy. “As a Veteran and the father of a son who served in Iraq, I know that our troops are making tremendous progress in establishing a civil society and completing their mission. Republicans recognize that we will either face the terrorists on the streets of Iraq or we will face them in our own country. President Bush and House Republicans remain committed to protecting American families.” ###
11.16.2005	Today, members of the Victory in Iraq Caucus heard an unfiltered report from an American Hero who is currently serving in the United States Army. SSG Christopher Bain spoke to members and Congressional staffers about his experience in Iraq. Additionally, Mr. James Crum of the U.S. Army discussed the reconstruction efforts taking place throughout the country. “Although U.S. troops are protecting American families and making tremendous progress in establishing a civil society in Iraq, the mainstream media rarely provides a complete report of their efforts,” said Congressman Wilson. “Today’s briefing was a wonderful opportunity for us to hear a soldier describe his experiences in his own words. SSG Bain and Mr. Crum delivered an honest and refreshing message about Iraq, and I am extremely appreciative of their visit,” said Congressman Joe Wilson. “Unlike much of the doom and gloom reporting we hear in the mainstream media, the reports this morning gave us a very personal, very real perspective on the progress of our efforts in Iraq. These brave men, along with all the courageous Americans working for a free and democratic Iraq, know what it will take to get the job done because they’ve fought the battles and achieved the successes that will carry us to victory. Their first-hand accounts are a tremendous asset to those of us in Congress who are responsible for providing the tools necessary to support the outstanding work that is occurring in Iraq,” said Congressman Mark Green. Information from the Briefing SSG Bain joined the U.S. Army in February 1993. After serving in Iraq for four months, he was injured while traveling in a convoy to Camp Anaconda on April 8, 2004. During the briefing, he discussed his battle experience, the democratic elections in Iraq, and U.S. soldiers’ efforts to help Iraqi children. Additionally, he answered questions from members of Congress regarding force protection needs and the training of Iraqi security forces. Mr. James Crum serves as the Director of the Project Contracting Office in Washington for the Iraq Reconstruction Mission. His current duties focus on supporting and managing program execution of approximately $12 billion in reconstruction activities for Iraq. While speaking to the group, he highlighted completed reconstruction projects that are currently benefiting Iraqi citizens: • 240 Police Facilities • 115 Border Posts • 40 Military Base Projects • 765 Schools • 96 Potable Water Projects • 23 Postal Facilities • 66 Electricity Distribution Projects *For a complete Iraq Reconstruction Update, please see the attached document. *Please see the attached photo of SSG Bain and Mr. Crum at the America’s Heroes briefing. ###
11.15.2005	Today is the first day America’s seniors can register for the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) encouraged Medicare beneficiaries to take advantage of this valuable benefit: “When Medicare was created in 1965, a first class stamp only cost a nickel, Bonanza was one of the most popular shows on television, and expensive surgeries were often the only solution for illnesses. Americans have benefited significantly from medical advancements throughout the past forty years, and Medicare must also evolve with the changing technology,” said Congressman Wilson. “Today marks a historic day for the Medicare program. For the first time, America’s seniors will have an opportunity to enroll in a voluntary prescription drug plan that will meet their individual needs. I would like to encourage all South Carolina seniors to sign up for this valuable benefit. For more information about how to register, seniors can call 1-800-MEDICARE, visit www.medicare.gov, or contact professional pharmacists in their communities. By strengthening Medicare, President Bush and Congress have delivered a program that will enable America’s seniors to enjoy healthier, happier and longer lives.” Frequently Asked Questions about Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage: (Source: www.medicare.gov) What is Medicare prescription drug coverage? Medicare prescription drug coverage is insurance that covers both brand-name and generic prescription drugs at participating pharmacies in your area. Who can get Medicare prescription drug coverage? Everyone with Medicare is eligible for this coverage. When can I get Medicare prescription drug coverage? You may sign up from November 15, 2005 to May 15, 2006. If you join by December 31, 2005, your coverage will start January 1, 2006. If you don't sign up when you are first eligible or by May 15, 2006, you may pay a penalty. Your next opportunity to enroll is from November 15, 2006 to December 31, 2006. ###
11.10.2005	Today, members of the Victory In Iraq Caucus expressed their strong appreciation for our nation’s Veterans and encouraged all Americans to recognize Veterans in their communities on Friday, November 11, 2005: “As the son of a World War II Veteran, a 31-year Veteran of the Army National Guard and a father of three sons serving in the military, Veterans Day is particularly meaningful to my family. America exists today only because of the courage of the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States military. Generations of American soldiers have turned impossible challenges into incredible victories, and they have earned our highest respect. I would like to encourage all citizens to take time on Friday to personally express their sincere appreciation to Veterans who have selflessly served our country and protected the American way of life.” Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) Victory In Iraq Caucus Co-Chair “As thousands of our brave troops continue the fight for peace and democracy abroad, we as Americans are reminded of the generations of servicemen and women who came before them. These courageous individuals put their lives on the line to protect the liberties that you and I hold dear, and they deserve our utmost praise for their sacrifice. I look forward to joining all Americans in celebrating this national day of reverence, and praying for the safety of our troops carrying on the fight for freedom.” Congressman Mark Green (WI-08) Victory In Iraq Caucus Co-Chair “We must take the time to pay tribute to our fallen heroes, not just on Veterans Day, but everyday. Their sacrifices and those of our military families are freedom's foundation. Without the brave efforts of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and their families, our country would not stand so boldly, shine so brightly and live so freely.” Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) “Congress is committed to taking care of our Veterans. America has a responsibility to them because of the tremendous sacrifice they have made on behalf of each of us. It is because of the unselfish actions of a few that we can enjoy our way of life today.” Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) “I represent a high concentration of Veterans who have settled in South Jersey near Fort Dix, McGuire AFB and Lakehurst Navy base. They have made great contributions that have changed the world and made it a better place for freedom and democracy. During times of peace and war, Veterans Day is the day for all Americans to remember the sacrifices of those who wore the uniform in the past, and those who wear it today.” Congressman Jim Saxton (NJ-03) “Veterans Day is a day on which we pause and reflect on a group of people who truly embody the characteristics of duty, honor and patriotism. It is a day on which we struggle for the right words to express how we feel about the price that so many have paid, but the words are often not enough to express our deepest gratitude. It is a day when sometimes our presence, our silence and our reverence say far more than our words ever could.” Congressman Randy Forbes (VA-04) “Throughout our nation’s history, we have been blessed with soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines who have answered the call of duty regardless of the hardships they have had to endure or the personal sacrifices they have had to make. These courageous men and women put their lives on the line to protect and defend our great nation because they recognize a fundamental truth: freedom does not come free. On Veterans Day, I encourage every American to take pause and honor the heroic individuals that have proudly worn the uniform of the United States military and have earned the title of veteran. These 25 million Americans have earned the respect of a grateful nation, and I personally thank them for their service.” Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) “We observe Veterans Day for the very same reasons President Wilson created Armistice day – for Americans to be filled with solemn pride in the heroism of the ultimate sacrifice that so many have made in the service of our country, and for their propagation of freedom.” Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) “As we observe Veterans Day, I want to thank American Veterans for their selfless service. From Omaha Beach and the Pacific seas, to the jungles of Vietnam and the sands of the Middle East, we live every day with the gift of liberty because of their courage. These brave men and women fought to protect our nation, to liberate the oppressed, and to hold fast to the idea that liberty is a universal right, worth fighting and, yes, sometimes dying for. We owe them our deepest gratitude.” Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11) “Our nation’s Veterans have provided the backbone of liberty for our nation for over the last 200 years, and the freedoms we enjoy today are a direct result of their efforts. Our gratitude for their sacrifices is immeasurable and must never be forgotten,” Congressman Sherwood Boehlert(NY-24) “This Veterans Day, I encourage us all to thank a veteran. I also encourage each of us to think of a family whose child or spouse is serving overseas, and offer a kind word, a prayer, a note of encouragement, or meet a need they have. All of our Veterans are soldiers for freedom and light in the darkest corners of the world. As we remember our Veterans, let us hope in God who promised in Luke 1:79 ‘to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.” Congressman Jim Ryun (KS-02) “Nearly 142 years ago, President Abraham Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address consecrating the hallowed ground on which was fought a battle for our nation. Today, we are engaged in another, different kind of battle for our nation – one that must be won and one which we are winning. The global War on Terror is one that we hope never to fight on our soil, and it is the sacrifice and commitment of our troops that keeps the fight from our neighborhoods. Throughout the history of our nation, Veterans have played the key role in defending us and keeping us safe. Our Veterans have earned the admiration and respect of every American. We honor these men and women who have given so much so that we may continue to live in freedom and prosperity.” Congressman Geoff Davis (KY-04) “Veterans Day give us the opportunity to pay our respects to those who fought to preserve our freedom and peace. Without our Veterans' commitment and sacrifice, we would not have the freedom to celebrate with barbeques, parades and festivals.” Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (NC-05) “For our military men and women serving in the Middle East and around the world, this Veterans Day particularly resonates. Like generations of American troops before them, they are upholding freedom and serving with courage. By denying the terrorists safe havens, they are making our nation more secure and preserving the legacy of liberty that was handed down to us. They and their families deserve our gratitude and support not only on Veterans Day, but throughout the year.” Congressman Paul Ryan (WI-01) “Today, American soldiers are fighting for our way of life, doing amazing things to make America more secure. Like the men and women we honor on Veterans Day for their service to defend freedom at home and abroad, our brave military men and women fighting the War on Terror have achieved remarkable changes. In less than three years they have built a foundation for: 10 million Iraqis to vote for a democratic constitution; Afghanis to elect a parliament with one-quarter of its seats held by women; Syria to withdraw its military from Lebanon; Libya to voluntarily dismantle its nuclear weapons program; Israel to withdraw from the Gaza Strip; Palestinians to elect new, moderate leadership interested in peace; Egypt to allow an opposition party to run for President for the first time in 25 years; municipal elections in Saudi Arabia; and Pakistanis voting for a moderate government. The number of areas in which terrorists can freely operate around the world is shrinking and, as our Veterans understand, you stay the course when the noose is tightening as it is today on al Qaeda.” Congressman Mike Rogers (MI-08) “In times of crisis America has always been able to count on the men and women of the United States Armed Forces to fight for our freedom. We can't thank our Veterans enough for their sacrifice. Today we're once again engaged in a great struggle that will in no uncertain terms decide what kind of world our children inherit, and it's clearer than ever that our military is the greatest force for freedom this world has ever known. America's Veterans and those serving today are our patriots and protectors, and we ask God's blessings for them.” Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) “Veterans Day always has a special meaning in our family as my husband, Dexter, is a decorated veteran of the Vietnam War and my step-son Dougie and his fiancée Lindsay are currently serving in Iraq against the fanatical extremists that seek to divide and terrorize that country. Not a day goes by without my family praying for our loved ones in Iraq and for the other brave men and women in uniform that are determined to take the battle to the fanatics in their own backyards. This Veterans Day we must all be grateful for those who have decided to risk everything for liberty and freedom.” Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) “History shows that American military Veterans, just like Veterans of the War on Terror, have played a leading role in stamping out tyranny and expanding freedom around the globe. It is this sacrifice in service to the cause of liberty that free Americans from coast to coast pause to recognize on Veterans Day.” Congressman Joe Pitts (PA-16) “Our courageous men and women serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world are also in our thoughts and prayers on this day set aside to remember their comrades in arms who have served in support of our freedom for more than 200 years. We remain committed to our nation's fighting force and our Veterans, and will continue to provide the support they so richly deserve.” Congressman Henry Brown (SC-01) “This special day provides us with the opportunity to honor the sacrifice and dedication of those Americans who served their country in the armed forces. Today, our forces face peril in their ongoing missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I pray for their success and safe return.” Congressman Cliff Stearns (FL-06) “As a proud Veteran of the United States Army and U.S. Army Reserve, I personally understand and admire the selfless dedication and valiant sacrifice our men and women in uniform display in order to serve our great Nation. America has always been a Nation devoted to the cause of liberty, both at home and abroad; and through our Veterans’ bravery and sacrifice, our Nation has advanced the call of freedom and democracy around the globe, be it in Iraq or Afghanistan, and has allowed us here, in the United States, to live in peace and tranquility. On Veterans Day, America remembers our troops’ devotion to the cause of liberty, and their active and courageous contribution to our country’s greatness.” Congressman Dan Burton (IN-05) “Our Veterans deserve our thanks and appreciation everyday. They have fought courageously to liberate continents, spread democracy and defend us from our enemies. As we take a moment to thank our Veterans, let us also remember those who are bravely defending our nation and the ideals of freedom and democracy throughout the world today.” Congressman Gresham Barrett (SC-03) ### The Victory in Iraq Caucus is comprised of 118 members of Congress and serves to honor the men and women of the US Armed Forces and promote their success in the War on Terror. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Congressman Mark Green (R-WI) are Co-Chairs of the Caucus. For more information, please email victoryiniraqcaucus@mail.house.gov
11.10.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding Veterans Day: "Mr. Speaker, as the son of a World War II Veteran, a veteran of military service, and the father of three sons serving in the military, Veterans Day is particularly meaningful to my family. "America exists today only because of the courage of the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States military. Generations of American soldiers have turned impossible challenges into incredible victories, and they have earned our highest respect. "As U.S. troops continue to risk their lives in the War on Terrorism, we are especially inspired by the bravery of America’s 25 million veterans. By risking their lives to protect our freedoms, there is a greater spread of freedoms today worldwide than ever in history. We will remain forever grateful for their service. "I would like to encourage all citizens to take time on Friday to personally express their sincere appreciation to the Veterans in their communities. "In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th" ###
11.09.2005	Today, Congressmen Joe Wilson (SC-02), Eric Cantor (VA-7), Marsha Blackburn (TN-7), Spencer Bachus (AL-6), and Tom Feeney (FL-24) spoke at a press conference to publicly encourage Blue Dog Democrats to join them in reforming the federal budget, and saving the dollars of American taxpayers. Congressman Wilson made the following statement: “Blue Dog Democrats take great pride in their alleged fiscally responsible beliefs. They speak frequently about their commitment to a lean federal budget, and they have signs outside their congressional offices highlighting the size of the national debt. “Today, House Republicans are encouraging Blue Dog Democrats to put their words into action. Instead of simply talking about their desire to reform the congressional budget process, they now have a unique opportunity to actually tackle this critical challenge. “As our nation continues to pay for the massive reconstruction costs of Hurricane Katrina and Rita, Congress must act immediately to reform the federal budget. House Republicans have led this effort by introducing legislation that will eliminate duplicative programs and reduce excessive government spending. The Deficit Reduction Act is a smart, commonsense proposal that will decrease the federal deficit and ensure that our children and grandchildren do not inherit a massive national debt. “After listening to Blue Dog Democrats publicly complain about federal spending, they should be thrilled to have an opportunity to vote on legislation that will reform our budget process and decrease the federal deficit. The American people need your support on this vital measure. As a famous singer once said ‘its time for a little less talk and a lot more action.”
11.04.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in strong support of the Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2005 (H.R. 4128). The bill passed the House yesterday with a 376 – 38 vote and will prevent governments from taking property from one private party and giving it to another. “Mr. Speaker, our country has been built by innovative men and women who have devoted their lives to owning their own homes and businesses. As a former real estate attorney, I know firsthand that ownership is an important component of the American dream. “In June, the rights of private property owners came under attack when the Supreme Court issued a decision giving local governments the power to seize private property from one private party and give it to another. By valuing potential tax revenues and economic development over the private rights of American citizens, the court delivered a dangerous decision that misinterprets our constitution and threatens our core values. “Led by Congressmen Henry Bonilla and Chairman Bob Goodlatte, the House of Representatives acted to restore power to American citizens. By passing the Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2005, Congress voted to ensure property owners truly have control over their homes, businesses and organizations. “This legislation is an important victory for all Americans. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
11.04.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) released a public service announcement (PSA) celebrating Veterans Day and honoring the 25 million Americans who have served in the United States Armed Forces: “As men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces continue to risk their lives to protect our families, Veterans day is particularly meaningful for all Americans,” said Congressman Wilson. “I would like to encourage everyone to take time next Friday to express their appreciation to veterans in their communities who have served their country. ” Script of the Public Service Announcement: “Hello, I’m Congressman Joe Wilson. This month, we celebrate Veterans Day, and honor the 25 million Americans who have served in our Armed Forces. We honor them for their love of country and their sacrifice. America has always been a nation devoted to the cause of liberty both at home and abroad; and through their bravery, our nation’s heroes have advanced freedom’s cause and allowed us to be free and secure. For information on how you can help thank our nation’s veterans and active military personnel, visit the Department of Veterans Affairs website at: www.va.gov.” NOTE: Please click on the attached links to view an audio and video file of the PSA. If members of the media would like a copy of this announcement in a different format, please contact Emily Lawrimore at 202-225-2452. ###
11.03.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, next week, President Bush will attend the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Busan, Korea with representatives from twenty-one other member governments. “His attendance at this forum will highlight the significance of the APEC region, which now accounts for nearly 40% of the world’s population, over half of world trade, approximately 60% of the world’s gross domestic product, and creates millions of American jobs. “By discussing his efforts to maintain a robust trade, security, and global health agenda, President Bush will strengthen our valuable partnership with APEC countries. “As co-chair of the Mongolia Caucus, I am particularly proud that President Bush will be the first American President ever to visit the 800 year old nation of Mongolia, a true ally in the Global War on Terrorism. Mongolia has troops courageously serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President’s visit will be a fitting way to express our sincere appreciation for Mongolia’s service. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
11.01.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, in the Global War on Terrorism, we continue to fight against an enemy that has no respect for the sanctity of human life. “On Saturday, terrorists detonated three bombs in the busy streets of New Dehli, taking the lives of 62 innocent civilians and wounding over 200 people. By targeting shopping centers and a city bus, terrorists cowardly murdered innocent civilians. Over 60,000 Indians have been killed by terrorists. As these horrendous attacks continue throughout the globe, citizens of all free nations are at risk. “Indian Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh condemned the serial blasts in Delhi and vowed that ‘the Government is determined to defeat nefarious designs of terrorist elements. The perpetrators of these heinous acts will be dealt with firmly.’ “The United States stands with Prime Minister Singh, and we remain dedicated to defeating terrorists who attack our allies. Today, our thoughts and prayers are with the Indian people, who continue to work with Pakistan for mutual benefit. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
10.28.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and twenty-seven other members of Congress sent a letter to President Bush to encourage him to accelerate Hurricane Wilma recovery efforts by temporarily suspending the Davis-Bacon Act. Congressman Wilson made the following remarks about this vital request: “Over the past decade, Floridians have found themselves in the wake of hurricanes that have damaged their homes, destroyed their businesses, and devastated their communities. Last year, an unprecedented four hurricanes tore through the state, resulting in over $22.9 billion in damages. “The people of Florida are now beginning to recover from Hurricane Wilma, a category 3 storm which left over 3.2 million homes and businesses without power. The early costs of Hurricane Wilma have been estimated at between $9 billion and $12 billion. As state officials begin to assess the aftermath of this disaster, the President has a unique opportunity to help accelerate the reconstruction process by temporarily suspending the Davis-Bacon Act. “This suspension would significantly reduce reconstruction costs, and greatly benefit local workers. As Floridians begin to rebuild their communities, we are urging President Bush to support our request.” The Davis-Bacon Act as amended, requires that each contract over $2,000 to which the United States or the District of Columbia is a party for the construction, alteration, or repair of public buildings or public works shall contain a clause setting forth the minimum wages to be paid to various classes of laborers and mechanics employed under the contract. Under the provisions of the Act, contractors or their subcontractors are to pay workers employed directly upon the site of the work no less than the locally prevailing wages and fringe benefits paid on projects of a similar character. The Davis-Bacon Act directs the Secretary of Labor to determine such local prevailing wage rates. (www.gpo.gov) *Please see the attached letter to President Bush. ###
10.27.2005	On October 29th and 30th, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) will participate in Humana Inc.’s “Let’s Talk” mobile Medicare educational campaign in Columbia, South Carolina. As the enrollment process for Medicare’s new prescription drug benefit continues, Congressman Wilson will meet with constituents to ensure that they understand the up-coming registration process and their coverage options. “Many Medicare beneficiaries, and their adult children, have important questions about how to register for the program’s new prescription drug benefit,” said Congressman Wilson. “By visiting our community, the Humana Medicare Education Tour is providing Columbia residents with a convenient opportunity to meet with Medicare experts who can answer their questions about the registration process. I look forward to participating in the events this weekend, and would like to encourage anyone with questions about Medicare to stop by the Humana RV.” Humana Inc.’s “Let’s Talk” mobile Medicare educational Campaign is opening its doors to Columbia. Stops in the area are among nearly 500 stops in all that Humana’s fleet of 10 recreational vehicles are making during its “Let’s Talk” tour, designed to help Medicare beneficiaries sort through upcoming Medicare changes When: Saturday, October 29, 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM Wal-Mart Supercenter, 5420 Forest Dr., Columbia, SC (Humana Tour hours: 8:00 AM to 3:00 PM) Sunday, October 30, 1:30 PM to 2:30 PM Sam’s Club, 350 Harbison Blvd., Columbia, SC (Humana tour hours: 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM) ###
10.27.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded $700,000 through the Fiscal Year 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Lexington County Fire Service: “I’m thrilled to congratulate Fire Service Coordinator Rusty Rawl and the Lexington County firefighters on this substantial grant,” said Congressman Wilson. “By using this funding to enhance their operations and safety procedures, the fire department will be better equipped to serve Lexington County residents. Our local firefighters risk their lives daily to protect families throughout our communities, and this grant is one way to help as they perform this valuable service.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban, and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. ###
10.25.2005	Today, Victory in Iraq Caucus Co-Chairs Congressmen Joe Wilson (SC-02) and Mark Green (WI-08) praised the passage of the Iraqi draft constitution: “The Iraqi people have spoken clearly in support of a constitution that will protect their rights as citizens of a democracy and serve as an essential guide for their nation,” said Congressman Wilson. “Each election proves that the Iraqi people are growing more enthusiastic about the democratic process and more committed to establishing a civil society. Their progress serves as a symbol of hope to other new democracies, and a symbol of defiance to terrorists who are trying to derail the political process in Iraq. I am grateful for the U.S. troops who helped make this success possible, and I am proud of the Iraqi people.” “Today, the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq confirmed what many of us have been anxiously anticipating for months: If given the chance, the vast majority of Iraqis would adopt a constitution that upholds justice, protects individual freedoms, and embraces democracy,” said Congressman Green. “This referendum marks a defeat for the terrorists who desperately seek to halt the spread of liberty and prosperity, and a victory for our brave troops, who have paved the way for peace in Iraq. It is indeed a truly historic day, and the Iraqi people deserve praise for this achievement.” By the numbers: Iraqis at the Polls “Iraq Constitution Passes in Referendum,” Associated Press, 10/25/2005 9.8 Million Iraqis cast ballots in the referendum 63% Of registered voters participated in the election 78.5% Of voters favored the ratification of the constitution ###
10.20.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) expressed his strong support for a commonsense proposal to reform the federal budget, and also urged House Democrats to support this fiscally responsible plan: “When American families face financial crises, they make important sacrifices and responsible decisions to get their budget back on track,” said Congressman Wilson. “As the federal government continues to pay for the rising costs of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, Congress must also make necessary sacrifices and follow a strict budget. House Republicans are leading the effort to reduce spending and have recently proposed commonsense reforms to eliminate 98 federal programs, saving more than $4.3 billion in discretionary spending. “Democrats’ strong opposition to this proposal is unfortunately not surprising. Led by Liberal Democrat Nancy Pelosi, they have tried to increase federal spending by tens of billions of dollars at every stage of the legislative process. Earlier this year, not a single Democratic House Member supported the lean budget that passed the Congress. Democrats seem to view the budget as a credit card and when the bill gets too high, they pay for the bill by simply raising taxes on the American people. Instead of proposing another tax-and-spend plan, it’s time for Democrats to support these necessary spending reforms.” House Republicans remain committed to decreasing the federal deficit: Under Republican leadership, the budget deficit shrank last year from $412 billion to $319 billion—more than a 22% decrease. Non-defense non-Homeland domestic discretionary spending in the House is on track to be below last year’s levels—for the first time since the Reagan Administration. House Republicans have passed legislation that seeks to find at least $35 billion in savings from mandatory programs for the first time since 1997. House Republicans have recommended zeroing-out funding for 98 federal programs that are wasteful, duplicative, or out-of-date. These cuts will save taxpayers $4.3 billion. Under Republican guidance, the House refused to fund over a dozen new programs this year. For the first time since 1994, the Congress will temporarily fund government operations at the lowest level until Congress completes work on the budget process. Last year, Congress held growth in non-security discretionary spending to 1.4%—well below inflation and a significant reduction from the previous 5-year average growth rate of 6.3%. ####
10.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that the Historic Beaufort Foundation will receive a $230,000 grant as part of the 2005 Save America’s Treasures (SAT) grant partnership: “Residents of Beaufort have always recognized the tremendous beauty and significance of the over two hundred year-old Beaufort Arsenal,” said Congressman Wilson. “By receiving this prestigious award, the Arsenal has been recognized nationally as one of our country’s most treasured historic sites. The Historic Beaufort Foundation should be especially proud of this award, since the Arsenal was one of only 61 sites selected during a competitive application process involving 337 grant applications from eligible agencies. I am pleased to congratulate the Foundation today on this extraordinary accomplishment.” Save America’s Treasures grants are awarded by the President’s Commission on the Arts and the Humanities (PCAH), National Park Service (NPS), National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), and Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The grants will allow 61 organizations and agencies to conserve significant U.S. cultural treasures, which illustrate, interpret, and are associated with the great events, ideas, and individuals that contribute to our nation’s history and culture. The Historic Beaufort Foundation will use the funding to repair exterior stucco on the Beaufort Arsenal. For additional information on the 2005 SAT grants, please visit: https://www.cr.nps.gov/hps/treasures/ ###
10.18.2005	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.Res. 300, a bill sponsored by Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) which recognizes the South Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company on the occasion of its 50th anniversary and salutes the outstanding service of the Company to the people of South Carolina. Congressman Wilson made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the legislation: “Madam Speaker, I am honored to speak on behalf of H.Res.300. I appreciate the leadership of my neighbor and long-time friend Gresham Barrett for coordinating this resolution, along with our South Carolina-born friend, David Scott of Georgia. “Henry Ford once said that ‘quality means doing it right when no one is looking.’ “Today, I am honored to recognize a South Carolina company that epitomizes Mr. Ford’s definition of quality service. For over fifty years, the South Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company has quietly built a distinguished record of providing quality products and excellent customer service to thousands of families across my home state. “The company’s story began in the 1950s, when many residents of South Carolina simply did not have access to affordable insurance coverage. When disaster struck their homes or vehicles, they were unable to pay for the damages and often found themselves facing a financial crisis. “On December 10, 1955, a group of innovative South Carolinians responded to the needs of citizens by establishing the South Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company. “Today, South Carolina families have come to trust and rely upon the South Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company led today by Chief Executive Officer Philip Love for a diverse line of auto, homeowners, and other insurance coverage. “As the largest domestic property and casualty insurer in South Carolina, this company now employs almost 500 people and administers over 344,000 policies. After Hurricane Floyd devastated parts of our state in 1999, the South Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company settled 90 percent of reported claims in one week. The company’s excellent track record continues to prove that it epitomizes quality customer service. “Today, I am honored to congratulate the South Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company on over fifty years of great accomplishment, and wish the company continued success. I urge my colleagues to support H.Res.300.” *To read the text of the legislation, please visit: https://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/D?c109:8:./temp/~c1091HMpXa::
10.17.2005	Today, Victory in Iraq Caucus Co-Chairs Congressmen Mark Green (WI-08) and Joe Wilson (SC-02) praised the successful elections in Iraq: “In a courageous display of national pride and unity, this weekend millions of freedom-loving Iraqis braved the threat of attack to head to the polls and vote on a constitution drafted by their fellow countrymen. It was a truly historic day, and another clear indication that democracy is taking hold in Iraq. The referendum marked another victory for the Iraqi people, the Iraqi security forces tasked with securing a safe and successful vote, and the U.S. troops who continue to perform with honor and bravery,” said Congressman Mark Green (WI-08). “Saturday’s election in Iraq was a shining example of democracy in action and continued proof that the Iraqi people are bravely determining the fate of their nation. After Iraqi security forces and Coalition troops worked together efficiently to provide security for the landmark event, the day was calm and the election was extremely successful. Millions of Shiites, Sunnis, Kurds and Turkmen cast their ballots for a constitution that will protect their rights and serve as a blueprint for their nation’s future. I am honored to congratulate the Iraqi National Assembly and the Iraqi people on this historic accomplishment,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02). Coverage of the event continues to prove that Iraqi security forces and Coalition troops were successful in ensuring safe elections: • “Officials at Iraq's election commission said that the early count pointed to a turnout as high as 65 percent of the country's 15.5 million voters, a showing that would exceed the 58 percent turnout in the January election that chose a transitional government.” “Iraqi Officials Count Ballots Following Saturday's Vote,” The New York Times, 10/16/2005 • “Nationwide security was a ‘resounding success,’ with all of the 13 recorded attacks aimed at election targets failing, Lt. Col. Steve Boylan, a spokesman for the U.S. Military, said in Bagdad.” "Sunni Turnout is High in Vote on Iraqi Charter," The Washington Post, 10/16/2005 • “During January's poll, insurgents killed at least 50 people in a wave of attacks against polling stations, but many of those voting early Saturday said they felt safer this time around....‘The security is better and the police have more experience.” “Deeply Split Iraqis Vote On Constitution,” The Chicago Tribune, 10/16/2005 • “I have seen pictures of citizens who are proud to be shown on camera having voted,’ said Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari, a Shiite, referring to TV coverage from the two cities. ‘There were no such pictures from these places in the last election...The victory for Iraq is that they are voting.” “Referendum in Iraq,” The Los Angeles Times, 10/16/2005 • “The day went smoothly with few attacks, from the time whole families began trickling into the polling stations early in the morning until voting ended at 5 p.m.” “Iraqis vote with little violence,” The Washington Times, 10/16/2005 ###
10.07.2005	After President Bush’s speech today, Co-Chairs Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Mark Green (R-WI) joined other members of the Victory in Iraq Caucus to express their strong commitment to winning the War on Terror: “Today, President Bush reminded us that we are in a long-term war and clearly articulated the necessity of victory. As Islamic extremists remain dedicated to attacking American families and American troops, we must win this war. If we do not defeat theses terrorists abroad, we will be forced to fight them at home,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02). “I am grateful for President Bush’s leadership, our troops’ continued successes, and the American people’s support for our crucial mission.” “In just a few short days the people of Iraq will have an opportunity to cast their first votes on a Constitution – clear evidence of the Iraqi people’s deepening embrace of democracy,” said Congressman Mark Green (WI-8). “This historic vote represents another major victory in the war on terrorism, and is yet another sign that, thanks to our brave forces, the seeds of hope and freedom are beginning to flourish in Iraq.” “As the people of Iraq get ready to vote this month, we need to think about what the world and the Middle East would be like if America left and we let terror-loving al-Zarqawi and his al-Qaida cronies take over Iraq? We won’t let that happen. We will be successful,” said Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03), a 29-year Air Force veteran who recently returned from Iraq. "The President's speech reiterated the fundamental principles that will lead us in the 21st Century. America needs to remain committed to fighting the war on terror, which includes fighting abroad where extremists hide and plot but also securing the homeland to protect the American people. We need to constantly be adapting and continue our steadfast dedication throughout the War on Terror,” said Congressman Bill Shuster (PA-09), member of the House Armed Services Committee. “President Bush’s speech struck the necessary chords by providing the necessary strategy to winning the war in Iraq. Real progress is being made and regardless of what is being reported in the mainstream media, the last thing we need to do is jeopardize that progress by abandoning the people of Iraq. An immediate withdrawal from Iraq would only aid the terrorists by handing them a clear victory in a crucial battle in the overall fight to win the war on terror. Now, more than ever, we must remain steadfast as Iraqis continue to move toward a Constitution and ultimately an independent democratic society,” said Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11). “I was encouraged by President Bush’s unwavering commitment to defeating the terrorists and allowing the Iraqi people to live in freedom. I am glad the President sees this situation for what it is; these terrorists are not freedom fighters or patriots, but murderers and fear-mongers. We must always stand against the terrorist doctrine of hate and destruction,” said Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11). “Americans understand that fighting terrorists and leaving a safer world for our kids can't be achieved without winning in Iraq. We're facing a tough war, but a war we can win. I hope the President continues to make it clear that we've got a clear mission, and that we are making significant progress,” said Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn (TN-07). ### The Victory in Iraq Caucus is comprised of 118 members of Congress and serves to honor the men and women of the US Armed Forces and promote their success in the War on Terror. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Congressman Mark Green (R-WI) are Co-Chairs of the Caucus. For more information, please email victoryiniraqcaucus@mail.house.gov.
09.29.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded over $152,000 through the Fiscal Year 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Neeses Volunteer Fire Department in Orangeburg County: “It’s incredibly important that our firefighters have the training and equipment they need to safely and effectively fight fires,” said Congressman Wilson. “After receiving this funding, the Neeses Fire Department will soon be able to update their operations and better serve our community. I am very pleased to congratulate Fire Chief Leroy Phillips, Chairman of the Board of Directors Joe Corbett, and our local firefighters on this valuable grant. They are helping South Carolina families and deserve to be recognized for their service.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban, and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. ###
09.28.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement regarding Iraqi security and Coalition forces killing Abu Azzam, the second most wanted al-Qaeda terrorist in Iraq: “Yesterday, Iraqi security forces and Coalition soldiers delivered a striking blow to al Qaeda terrorists in Iraq. By killing Abu Azzam, a top aide to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, our troops have achieved yet another critical victory in the War on Terror,” said Wilson. “Azzam led the largest group of al Qaeda in Iraq fighters in Fallujah during autumn 2004 and directed current terrorist activity and operations in Baghdad. As a leader of the Iraq terrorist network, he served as the brains behind numerous attacks on our troops and Iraqi citizens. Not any more. “The recent victory demonstrates that American soldiers are skilled, focused, and dedicated to finding the cowards who continue to attack democracy and take the lives of innocent civilians. By capturing and killing terrorists in Iraq, our troops are protecting American families from terrorists who threaten our freedoms and our way of life.” Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) serves as Co-Chair of the Victory In Iraq Caucus. ###
09.28.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement in support of Congressman Tom DeLay (TX-22): “Congressman Tom DeLay has been one of the most effective leaders in the history of the U.S. House of Representatives. Under his leadership, over four million Americans have found new jobs, Medicare beneficiaries have gained prescription drug coverage, and U.S. troops have received unprecedented support to protect our country. “While Congressman DeLay’s effectiveness has greatly helped American families, it has unfortunately motivated his critics. By issuing an indictment today against Mr. DeLay, Liberal Democrat Ronnie Earle is demonstrating politics at its worst and is continuing his personal vendetta against Republican leaders. In 1994, Earle indicted U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and his charges were proved false. I am confident that Congressman DeLay will also be vindicated from this blatant, partisan attack.” ###
09.23.2005	On September 20th, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU) participated in a private meeting with Dr. Hajim al-Hassani, Speaker of the Iraqi National Assembly. Congressman Wilson expressed his appreciation for Dr. al-Hassani’s visit, his continued support for the mission in Iraq, and his strong confidence in the Iraqi government’s ability to establish a flourishing democracy. Congressman Wilson made the following remarks about the meeting: “I was very grateful to have the opportunity to meet with Dr. al-Hassani, a man who risks his life daily to ensure that Iraq continues on the road to democracy,” said Wilson. “He discussed his efforts to win support for the Iraqi constitution, and his dedication to establishing a civil society in Iraq.” “As Co-Chair of the Victory in Iraq caucus, I was also pleased to hear Dr. al-Hassani express his appreciation for U.S. troops who are bravely confronting terrorists who threaten the future of both of our nations. Although we discussed the continuing challenges of the War on Terror, we agreed that we are extremely proud of the strong efforts made by American troops and Iraqi forces. They are making tremendous progress in defeating terrorism and rebuilding Iraq. Dr. al-Hassani said that Iraqis will remain forever grateful for the service of the men and women who serve in the U.S. Armed Forces.” ###
09.22.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) joined Congressman Gil Gutknecht (R-MN) and other members of Congress at a press conference to celebrate the passage of House Joint Resolution 61, which recognizes American Gold Star Mothers’ Day. The board of the Gold Star Mothers, including President Judith Young, also attended the event. Congressman Wilson made the following statement: “I am honored to stand here today with our Gold Star Mothers, a special group of American women who have lost either a son or daughter through service to our country,” said Wilson. “While they would never choose to be a member of this group, these mothers are courageously following in their son or daughter’s footsteps by helping the men and women who continue to serve in our Armed Forces.” “Gold Star Mothers volunteer in our military hospitals, show compassion to our veterans, and care for the families of service members. As the father of three sons who are currently serving in the military, I cannot begin to imagine their grief. Their selflessness and generosity are an inspiration to all Americans. “On Sunday, I hope that everyone will take a moment to express their appreciation to Gold Star Mothers in their communities.” Gold Star Mothers’ Day will be celebrated on Sunday, September 25, 2005. The American Gold Star Mothers is an organization comprised of mothers who have lost a son or daughter while in service to our country. The 150 chapters of Gold Star Mothers throughout the United States dedicate many hours of work and personal service in hospitals for veterans and their families. ###
09.21.2005	On Sunday, September 18, 2005, over 6 million Afghans voted in their country’s first parliamentary elections. Yesterday, Congressman Wilson (R-SC) praised the successful elections on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, Sunday’s elections in Afghanistan are another example of progress in the Global War on Terror,” said Wilson. “Millions of Afghans bravely defied terrorists, just as Iraqis in January, when they cast their ballots in the first free parliamentary elections in the history of Afghanistan. They are developing a civil society which will prevent the spread of terrorism and help protect American families. “Due to the strong resolve of President Bush and our troops, a spirit of freedom and democracy is spreading throughout the world. Libya has terminated its nuclear weapons programs, Lebanon has resumed its democracy with the withdrawal of Syria, and Indonesia has held its first free presidential elections. Egypt has begun multi-candidate elections, Pakistan has strengthened its ability to stop cross-border terrorism, and Kuwait now allows women to vote. Recently, leading terrorists were killed or captured in Algeria, Saudi Arabia, and California. “Over twenty years ago, Ronald Reagan advanced the idea of peace through strength. As we now witness the greatest spread of freedom in the history of the world, his vision is a reality. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
09.15.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) urged the Senate to quickly confirm Judge John Roberts, Jr., President Bush’s nominee for the Supreme Court’s Chief Justice. He issued the following statement: “Americans watched closely this week as Judge John Roberts testified about his abilities to serve on our nation's highest court,” said Wilson. “We have witnessed a man who is humble, forthright, and open about his beliefs and his legal experience. His knowledge and dedication to the law reflect his capability to fairly interpret our Constitution and protect the rights of all Americans. “Recently, the Los Angeles Times reported that Lawrence Sullivan, a former math teacher of Roberts’, said ‘Everyone knew that he had the mind and determination to do something great. The question wasn't if he would, the question was when.’ “Well, his time has now come. As the confirmation process continues, I would like to remind the Senate they now have the opportunity to also do something great for our nation by swiftly confirming Judge John Roberts to lead the U.S. Supreme Court. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
09.15.2005	On Saturday, September 17th, Senator Lindsey Graham will host Academy Day at the National Advocacy Center in Columbia, South Carolina. Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) encouraged students from the 2nd District to attend the event to learn more about military academies throughout our nation: “I’d like to thank Senator Graham for hosting this important event, and encourage 2nd district students to attend on Saturday,” said Wilson. “After meeting with countless members of our armed services and witnessing my son’s positive experience at a military academy, I fully believe these institutions play a valuable role in ensuring that our soldiers are the best in the world,” said Wilson. “Academy day is a great opportunity for all interested students to learn how our military academies provide extraordinary training and a first-class education.” Event Details: What: Academy Day allows high school students the opportunity to learn more about our nation’s prestigious service academies. Representatives from Senator Graham’s office, Congressman Wilson’s office and the service academies will also be on hand to answer questions about the admissions and nominating process. When: Saturday, September 17, 2005 Registration - 10:00 AM Program - 10:30 AM Where: National Advocacy Center, 1620 Pendleton Street Columbia, South Carolina Parking is available on surrounding streets as well as in the parking garage at the corner of Pickens and Pendleton streets. ###
09.13.2005	September 13, 2005 Wilson: “SC Cares is a model for the nation.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) visited South Carolina Cares (SC Cares), in Columbia, South Carolina to meet with volunteers and tour the facility. SC Cares is an all-volunteer facility that is currently providing essential services to over 1500 survivors of Hurricane Katrina. Today, Wilson praised the efforts of South Carolinians and recognized the valuable service of SC Cares on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, some 1500 evacuees from the Gulf Coast and particularly New Orleans are calling Columbia, South Carolina home through the help of a unique grassroots effort called South Carolina Cares, which combines private, public and faith based organizations,” said Wilson. “I want to extend my thanks to my fellow South Carolina Congressman Jim Clyburn, Columbia Mayor Bob Coble, and University of South Carolina President Andrew Sorensen, who worked with the American Red Cross and initiated the effort that now involves thousands of people. “At SC Cares, the only rule is the Golden Rule and fellow citizens are treated as we would like to be treated if we were in this unthinkable situation. As Sam Tenenbaum, Chairman of SC Cares, said, ‘Put yourself in their shoes.’ “SC Cares is a model for the nation, demonstrating how people, companies, organizations and government at all levels are coming together to help their fellow Americans. South Carolinians will continue to respond to this crisis with action, compassion and leadership. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” For more information on SC Cares, please visit www.columbiasc.net or call 803-401-8847. ###
09.05.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, throughout the past week, Americans have watched scenes of devastation that we never imagined would occur in our country,” said Wilson. “Lives have been lost, families have been separated, and communities have been demolished in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. As rescue workers search for survivors and permanent shelter for evacuees, the severity of this disaster continues to shock all Americans. “In spite of tremendous loss, our nation grows more hopeful everyday. As a former National Guard liaison to the Governor of South Carolina, I appreciate the efforts being made on the ground. Federal, state, and local officials are working together to save lives, deliver relief, and restore order in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. Last Friday, Congress passed a $10.5 billion emergency relief package to immediately help American families. “Across our country, Americans are opening up their homes and their checkbooks to help their neighbors. I would like to encourage South Carolinians to join this effort by contacting the Red Cross at www.redcross.org or by calling 1-800-HELP-NOW. Now more than ever, Americans must do what we do best: help each other. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
09.03.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks after the passing of Chief Justice William Rehnquist: "Today, my thoughts are with the Rehnquist family and our nation," said Congressman Wilson. "With the passing of Chief Justice William Rehnquist, we have lost a true leader who made the most of his unique opportunity to help the American people. He was a skilled judge and brilliant man who devoted over a third of his life to ensuring that our highest court fairly upheld our laws. Chief Justice Rehnquist earned a valuable place in our nation's history and will be missed." ###
09.02.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) urged South Carolinians to help victims of Hurricane Katrina. "Like all Americans, I am deeply concerned about our neighbors who were left in the wake of Hurricane Katrina," said Wilson. "As we now face the severity of this natural disaster, we must come together to help families and communities recover from this tragedy. I would like to urge all South Carolinians to join me in these efforts. "If constituents of the 2nd District need help with any specific matters relating to Hurricane Katrina, please call my Columbia office at 803-939-0021." The most effective way people can assist relief efforts is by making cash contributions to relief funds that have been established by the respective state governments in the disaster area. The following list of relief funds has been compiled by the USA Freedom Corps (https://www.usafreedomcorps.gov/). ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Alabama Governor’s Emergency Relief Fund Please mail checks or money orders to: Alabama Governor's Emergency Relief Fund P.O. Box 1523 Montgomery, AL 36102 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Louisiana Disaster Recovery Foundation Please mail checks or money orders to: Louisiana Disaster Recovery Foundation 1201 North Third Street, Suite 7-240 PO Box 94095 Baton Rouge, LA 70804-9095 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Mississippi Hurricane Relief Fund Please mail checks or money orders to: Mississippi Hurricane Relief Fund P.O. Box 139 Jackson, MS 39205 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- There are also a number of humanitarian organizations that are conducting relief operations in the affected area. Below are two resources for finding these organizations: FEMA https://www.fema.gov/press/2005/katrinadonations.shtm Network for Good https://www.networkforgood.org/topics/animal_environ/hurricanes/?source=USAFC For additional information on locating missing persons, please contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency at https://www.fema.gov/press/2005/resources_katrina.shtm. ####
09.02.2005	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act to Meet Immediate Needs Arising From the Consequences of Hurricane Katrina” (H.R. 3645) by voice vote. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement about this bill: “Hurricane Katrina tore through the southern part of our nation, devastating some of our finest cities and the lives of hundreds of thousands of our neighbors in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida,” said Wilson. “Federal, state, and local officials are working around the clock to help those left in Katrina's wake. As families continue to search for their loved ones and refugees wait for food and shelter, we must do more to immediately help our fellow citizens.” “Today, Congress passed a $10.5 billion aid package to ensure that the Federal Emergency Management Agency has the resources necessary to quickly and efficiently help victims. Congress will continue to provide its utmost support for these crucial efforts. “The compassion, generosity, and solidarity of the American people during difficult times are one of our most cherished blessings as citizens of our great nation. As we now face the severity of this historic natural disaster, Americans must do what we do best: help each other. I would like to encourage all South Carolinians to contribute their support to those in need during this devastating situation. Please visit www.redcross.org for more information on how you can help. My heart goes out to the victims and their families.” ###
08.10.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - On Monday, August 15th, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) will kick off his annual “Real Results” Bus Tour throughout all 10 counties of South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. During the five-day tour, Wilson will meet with constituents to discuss their needs and his continued efforts to deliver Real Results to people and communities in the Second District. All events are open to the press. Please see the attached schedule for information on when Congressman Wilson and the "Real Results" bus will be in your area.
07.28.2005	Today, U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) joined U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) in announcing over $47 million in the House-Senate Highway Conference Report to fund road projects in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. The surface transportation bill provides $286.4 billion in federal highway contract authority between 2004 and 2009, and is expected to pass the Senate and the House later this week. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation soon after. “When families travel the roads and highways of South Carolina, they should feel safe,” said Congressman Wilson “Unfortunately, I learn daily about traffic accidents on these roads. By widening and improving our roadways, this legislation will help solve many of our infrastructure problems and will make travel safer and easier for drivers throughout the Second District. After working with state, federal, and local officials, I'm thrilled to see our efforts were met with real solutions. I would specifically like to thank Senators Graham and DeMint for their hard work. As we continue to work together to improve our highways, funding for Highway 278 will remain my top transportation priority.” “The highway bill is very good news for motorists in South Carolina,” said Senator Graham. “As a state, we were able to secure a more equitable funding formula which will put additional dollars toward our road system. It truly moves the ball forward in our efforts to build new roads while maintaining and improving the ones we currently have. I truly appreciate Joe’s work in the House helping ensure our needs were met and interests were protected.” “The funding for these projects will improve our infrastructure and make South Carolina more competitive while also improving safety and our quality of life,” said Senator DeMint. “No one worked harder than Joe to secure these funds. He met repeatedly with leadership and conferees to fight for Second District priorities, and he should be applauded. We are especially pleased about Highway 278’s significant funding. This has been a safety risk to the people of the Lowcountry for too long, and we are finally making real progress. I also want to personally thank Lindsey for his leadership and help to ensure South Carolina was treated fairly throughout this process.” Notable Funding for Second District Projects Project: Widening of 278 County: Beaufort Amount: $26,600,000 Project: US 17 in Beaufort/ Colleton Counties Counties: Beaufort/Colleton Amount: $10,000,000 Project: Lexington Connector County: Lexington Amount: $4,600,000 Project: I-26/US 1 Airport Intermodal Connector County: Lexington Amount: $1,600,000 Project: Harden Street Improvements County: Richland Amount: $5,000,000 ###
07.27.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement regarding his vote in support of H.R. 3045, the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA): "The vote on DR-CAFTA was the toughest I have faced since serving in Congress," said Wilson. "After considering all aspects of this issue, I made a decision immediately before my vote on the House floor." "My primary concern is maintaining textile jobs in South Carolina and respecting the industry which helped build our state. Trade Representative Rob Portman has assured me that DR-CAFTA will boost opportunities for South Carolina exporters and help our companies compete with China. "Unusual to a trade vote, national security is the factor which has most convinced me that a yes vote is in the best interest of American families. On Friday, I met with National Security Council Advisor Stephen Hadley and was briefed by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Pete Hoekstra (R-MI). DR-CAFTA will promote economic growth in Central America and ensure that the new democracies in the region will prevail against dictators and narco-terrorists who are currently working to undermine the tremendous progress of these free nations. Ronald Reagan worked hard to end the wars in Central America, and DR-CAFTA will play a vital role in fulfilling his vision of freedom in the region. "After thoroughly considering the legislation's mutual economic benefits and its lasting impact on our national security and democracies around the world, I have decided to vote yes for DR-CAFTA." ###
07.20.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Congressman Lincoln Davis (D-TN) introduced the bipartisan State Defense Forces Improvement Act: “As the War on Terror continues, State Defense Forces are playing an increasingly critical role in ensuring that our communities are prepared to respond to homeland security crises,” said Wilson. “However, without the correct equipment, training and coordination, these capable men and women find it difficult to live up to their full potential. By offering this legislation, we are taking a vital step today to enable State Defense Forces to better protect American families.” “With the heightened use of our National Guard units, the all volunteer State Guards can play an integral role in supporting homeland security needs, as they did in World Wars I & II,” said Davis. “These very capable and highly motivated forces give our states’ Governors a multi-tiered defense network that provides support services at a very cost-effective price. I look forward to working with Congressman Wilson and my colleagues as we work to find support for this common-sense legislation.” State Defense Forces are reserved strictly for military duties within their respective states. They supplement and support the National Guard, assist in National Guard mobilizations for federal service, replace Guard units deployed out of state, and are available for homeland security missions. The State Defense Forces Improvement Act will help ensure that these forces are available to the fullest extent that a Governor chooses to employ them, and to establish a clear protocol on how they are to be coordinated with the Department of Homeland Security efforts and the Department of Defense. Specifically, the State Defense Forces Improvement Act will: Recognize the importance of State Defense Forces Authorize DOD and DHS to coordinate homeland security efforts with and provide training to State Defense Forces Allow State Defense Forces to receive surplus DOD equipment ###
07.19.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement following Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s address to the Joint Session of Congress. Wilson is past Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus of India and Indian-Americans. “Prime Minister Manmohan Singh eloquently expressed today that the people of the United States and the people of India have much in common. Our nations face the challenges of national security in the War on Terror, enjoy the fruits of strong economic opportunity, and share a deep passion for democracy. As the bonds of cooperation between America, the oldest democracy, and India, the largest democracy, grow stronger everyday, our relationship has never been better,” said Wilson. “Yesterday, President Bush and Prime Minister Singh issued a joint statement listing 16 programs that will strengthen the strategic partnership between the United States and India. Our continued efforts will provide stability, democracy, prosperity, and peace in our homes and throughout the world. “My home state of South Carolina is home to thousands of Indian-Americans who have quickly assimilated as business, medical, and academic leaders. As I learned from my father who served in India during World War II, they are guided by their strong work ethic and ingenuity. As their representative and friend, I am honored to welcome Indian Prime Minister Singh to the United States.” ###
07.19.2005	Tonight, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks regarding the nomination of Judge John Roberts to the U.S. Supreme Court: "Since the moment Justice O'Connor announced her resignation, President Bush has met with an unprecedented number of people in both political parties. His thorough and sound selection process has proven that he is dedicated to nominating an impartial, highly-qualified person to the Supreme Court," said Wilson. "The President's selection of Judge John Roberts is good for our country. Throughout his accomplished legal career, Judge Roberts has demonstrated that he will fairly interpret and apply the constitution. Mr. Roberts is a man of great integrity who deserves a civil and swift confirmation process. "The United States Senate has already unamiously expressed its confidence in Judge Roberts. I am hopeful that the Senate will confirm his appointment to the United States Supreme Court before the fall term begins." ####
07.12.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, I conclude every floor speech with the reminder ‘God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th’ because I strongly believe that we must remember the lessons of that tragic day to protect American families,” said Wilson. “After witnessing a handful of terrorists murder thousands of innocent Americans, our nation immediately took action to defeat terrorism at home and abroad. Yesterday, I observed hundreds of terrorists now detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and witnessed the tremendous progress our nation is making in defending our freedom and defeating terrorism. “Last Thursday’s brutal attacks on the streets on London demonstrated that we must remain on the offensive against terrorists who seek to murder innocent civilians and destroy our way of life. Terrorists who believe that they can break our will through cowardly attacks are mistaken. “As President Bush said yesterday, ‘America will not retreat in the face of terrorists and murderers. And neither will the free world.’ “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.30.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Congressman Mark Green (R-WI) announced the creation of the Victory in Iraq Caucus: “Many of the members of this caucus have had the opportunity to visit with our troops in Iraq and witness the tremendous progress being made in the region. Terrorists are being defeated, schools are being built, security forces are improving, the economy is growing, and the Iraqi people are notably more optimistic about the future. “Victory in Iraq is critical to our national security. As U.S. troops continue to risk their lives to protect our country and secure democracy in Iraq, they deserve to know that Members of the U.S. Congress support their mission and believe in their fight,” said Wilson. “The Victory in Iraq Caucus will further demonstrate that we are unified in our support for our troops and dedicated to completing the mission in Iraq.” “Despite what many Americans see and hear in the media, Iraq is well on its way to a brighter future,” Green said. “Democracy is taking hold, Iraqis are embracing their newfound freedoms, and our courageous troops are steadily stamping out terrorists bent on derailing Iraq’s march toward prosperity. There’s a lot to hang our hat on. But, Iraq is still a dangerous place, and that’s why we must continue supporting our troops, trumpeting their successes, and affirming America’s commitment to finishing the job. That’s what this caucus will help accomplish – it’s a voice for victory.” The Victory in Iraq Caucus will serve to honor men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces and to promote their successes in the War on Terror. ###
06.27.2005	On Saturday, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) traveled with a bipartisan Congressional Delegation of sixteen lawmakers to Guantanamo to learn more about the detention facilities used to house individuals detained in the War on Terror. Today, Congressman Wilson made the following remarks about his trip on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, I was grateful to join a sixteen member delegation led by Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter to view the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,” said Wilson. “In the extensive briefings by Brig. Gen. Jay Hood with representatives of JAG, Naval Medicine, the FBI, and interrogators, I am convinced we have patriotic professionals conducting a humane mission to protect American families in the War on Terror. The detainee’s meal was as good as any I had in my 31 years of Army Guard service, and I can see why the prisoners this year gained five pounds over last year. “I urge all of my colleagues to visit the base to learn first hand of the hard-core killers who are being detained as interrogation proceeds to secure intelligence on terrorist cells. Not a single life has been lost at Guantanamo, but thousands of lives have been saved in the Middle East, Europe, and America because of information provided which enables terrorists to be arrested before they murder at random. “In conclusion, God bless our Troops and we will not forget September 11th.” ###
06.23.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, more than 40,000 businesses and professional leaders from 150 countries have come together this week to attend Rotary International’s Centennial Convention led by President Glenn Estess, Sr. in Chicago,” said Wilson. “During their first 100 years, Rotary International grew from a small club established by Paul Harris in Chicago to a diverse international network of community volunteers who are dedicated to building peace and goodwill in the world. Today, approximately 1.2 million Rotarians belong to more than 32,000 Rotary clubs in 161 countries. “Rotarians are carrying out humanitarian projects in their own neighborhoods, promoting youth exchanges, and raising money to eradicate polio worldwide. “As a former Rotary club president, I am proud to recognize the organization’s distinguished record of volunteerism and thank all Rotarians who contribute to the success of this vital organization. I also appreciate my District Director Butch Wallace is president of the West Metro Rotary Club and my Chief of Staff Eric Dell is president of the Capitol Hill Rotary Club. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.22.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement: “Leaders of the Democrat Party continue to put the welfare of suspected terrorists before the needs of U.S. troops,” said Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC). “After criticizing the action of our troops and underestimating their accomplishments, they have now announced the creation of yet another committee to investigate the conduct of American soldiers.” “Sadly, the creation of this committee is simply another example of some Democrat leaders trusting the words of terrorists over the proven decency of U.S. troops. The American taxpayer is already providing accommodations for detainees, who are currently more comfortable than most of our men and women in uniform. When will Democrats start focusing their efforts on strongly supporting our troops rather than justifying the outrageous claims of terrorists? “Although I don’t know the cost of the Democrats’ latest endeavor, as a veteran with 31 years National Guard service, I am certain that the committee will report what the American people have known all along: the honorable men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces are treating detainees humanely, consistent with the Geneva Convention. “Instead of appeasing prisoners who are intent upon killing American families, Democrats should trust and support our troops. As the father of a son who served in Iraq for a year, I strongly believe that its time my Democrat colleagues begin to put America first. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.21.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, the people of Illinois and the United States are rightfully concerned about the recent smear and slander made by Democrat Whip Senator Dick Durbin. “After Democrat Whip Durbin likened U.S. troops to murderous dictators, columnist John Kass of The Chicago Tribune called on Senator Durbin to apologize to the nation for his irresponsible and dangerous comments. Kass wrote ‘Hitler, Stalin and Pol Pot murdered roughly 50 million people. At Guantanamo, suspected terrorists have been made uncomfortable, including a minion of Osama bin Laden’s….but I haven’t heard of anyone being killed there….We’re at war, Senator.’ “The people of Illinois deserve a Senator who accurately represents their strong appreciation for the men and women who bravely serve our country at home and abroad. Democrat Whip Durbin made his reckless remarks almost a week ago and he still has not apologized for his comments. As the second ranking Democrat in the U.S. Senate, Durbin should take responsibility for his comments and apologize immediately to U.S. troops and American families. “I am proud that my son served in Iraq. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.20.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement after Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) called the war in Iraq a “grotesque mistake” and “without success”on the floor of the House of Representatives: “Mrs. Pelosi’s recent statements should come as a shock to the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces who are currently risking their lives in Iraq and over 25 million Iraqis who now live in a free society,” said Wilson. “Her incredible remarks prove that she is either out of touch with reality or simply continues to believe that pessimism is the best way to score political points. “The progress in Iraq is real. Schools are being built, security forces are improving, the economy is growing, and the Iraqi people are notably more optimistic about the future of their country. In the face of such success, how can Mrs. Pelosi possibly call this war a ‘grotesque mistake?’ “Mrs. Pelosi should apologize to our troops for her disparaging and irresponsible remarks. When our country is at war, she should at least recognize our troops’ accomplishments and support their brave efforts to protect our country from terrorists.” NOTE: While speaking on the rule for the Department of Defense Appropriations for FY ’06 on Thursday, June 16, Democratic Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: "Each passing day confirms the Iraq War has been a grotesque mistake. We are here today considering a rule for a defense appropriation bill that will provide another 45 billion dollars for that war. In addition to the hundreds of billions already appropriated and the end is not in sight. This money has been spent in Iraq without question by Congress, without accountability from the administration and without success." ###
06.17.2005	June 17, 2005 Wilson Continues Call for Durbin Apology WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, two suspected terrorists were arrested last week for plotting to blow up a supermarket in California. If they are convicted and are sent to Guantanamo, they will be greeted by U.S. soldiers who treat them humanely and provide them with Korans, prayer rugs, and nutritious meals,” said Wilson. “However, Democrat Whip Dick Durbin this week slanderously compared U.S. soldiers serving honorably at Guantanamo to the mass murderers Hitler, Stalin and Pol Pot. His statements were irresponsible, disrespectful and most of all, dangerous. By likening American troops to brutal tyrants who killed millions of innocent civilians and misrepresenting the vital mission at Guantanamo, Democrat Whip Durbin has put our soldiers and the American people at risk. His dangerous political diatribe will only embolden terrorists who seek to justify their determined war against our citizens at home and abroad. “Senator Durbin should apologize to U.S. soldiers and American families for his smear and slander. As terrorists plot to infiltrate our country and murder innocent civilians, an American leader should not embolden their horrific agenda. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.17.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement after House passage of H.R. 2745, “The UN Reform Act of 2005.” An amendment sponsored by Congressman Wilson was also included in the final legislation: “The world has entrusted the United Nations with the tremendous task of promoting peace and international cooperation across the globe,” said Wilson. “Unfortunately, for years we have watched UN employees neglect their lofty goals and actually contribute to the demise of war-torn nations. From the jungles of the Congo to the swamps of Sierra Leone, UN employees have committed crimes involving money laundering, sexual exploitation, fraud, and human rights abuses. The litany of scandals involving UN employees and the apparent lack of leadership from UN officials is appalling.” “Today, Congress took advantage of a rare opportunity to restore hope, order, and purpose to the UN. Decades of UN waste, fraud, and abuse prove that strong action is the only remedy for the problems plaguing the organization. ‘The UN Reform Act of 2005’ requires the organization to drastically reform or risk losing 50 percent of America’s contributions to the UN-assessed budget. By linking US support to UN reform, we will encourage the organization to fulfill its historic mission.” H.R. 2745 included an amendment authored by Wilson that would add The Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories to a list of UN organizations that should be audited and reviewed to ensure balance in the approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. “Although this committee is supposed to review human rights abuses in the Middle East, it now furthers anti-Israel sentiment throughout the region by producing biased reports. Under these circumstances, it is entirely appropriate to audit and review this UN Special Committee.” ###
06.15.2005	A bipartisan U.S. Congressional taskforce, led by former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former U.S. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, today released a report stressing the urgent need for reform at the United Nations. The 174-page report by the panel, Taskforce on the United Nations, criticized the United Nations as lacking accountability and urged rapid reforms by Secretary-General Kofi Annan. As the House begins to consider the “UN Reform Act of 2005,” Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) called for strong UN reforms and expressed his support for this crucial legislation: “Mr. Speaker, as the biggest financial contributor to the United Nations, the United States should be assured that UN programs are accountable, efficient, and results-oriented,” said Wilson. “Unfortunately, we still have no guarantee that our contributions are used for valuable purposes. Although UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has discussed reforming the UN for years, his words have rarely resulted in action. In 1995, two dozen UN staffers defrauded or squandered up to $10 million in agency funds. Two years later, 16 UN employees were under investigation after siphoning off $6 million during an 8-year period. Additionally, a 2003 UN probe into corruption allegations found that one senior UN official improperly gave 11 contracts to his wife. “International Relations Committee Chairman Henry Hyde has introduced legislation that requires the UN to drastically reform or risk losing 50 percent of America’s contributions to the UN assessed budget. Actions speak louder than words, and if we link US support to UN results, the UN will become a more effective organization. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.13.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, Saddam Hussein was able to siphon almost $10 billion from a United Nations-administered program that was designed to provide food and care to the Iraqi people. As Iraq continues to recover from Hussein’s brutal dictatorship, I’ll urge the UN to recover these funds for the Iraqi people,” said Wilson. “Unfortunately, the Oil for Food scandal was only one example of a long litany of scandals associated with the UN. This week, Congress will vote on the United Nations Reform Act of 2005, which will ensure efficiency, accountability, and effectiveness at the UN. If the organization fails to enact these reforms, America’s contributions to the UN assessed budget will be reduced by 50%. “These reforms will assure the American people that their dollars are only used for legitimate and valuable UN projects. When we contribute billions of American dollars to the UN each year, the United States should not continue to pay for UN programs that operate with essentially a blank check. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
06.08.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, June is American Homeownership Month, recognizing the benefits of achieving the American Dream. As a former real estate attorney for 25 years, I know firsthand the joy of homeownership,” said Wilson. “By purchasing a home, Americans are investing in their own futures, ensuring stability, and promoting long-term financial security for their families. House Republicans are providing important incentives to homeowners and are paving the way for more American families to own their own homes. Today, homeownership is near record levels, with 69.1 % of American families now owning their own homes. According to the National Association of Realtors, sales of existing U.S. homes climbed 4.5 % in April. “Increased home sales are just another sign of continued economic growth in America. Last week, the Department of Labor also reported that the nation’s unemployment fell to 5.1 % in May and that over 3.5 million jobs have been created since May 2003, when President Bush signed his tax reduction into law. “Republicans will remain dedicated to advancing a successful, positive agenda that will grow the economy, and provide more opportunities to American families. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th. ###
05.26.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, Ronald Reagan once said that, ‘the government's view of the economy could be summed up in a few short phrases: If it moves, tax it. If it keeps moving, regulate it. And if it stops moving, subsidize it.’ “I believe that the American people, not the government, have a better view of our economy. By working to remove the economic barriers of taxation, litigation, and regulation, House Republicans are returning control of the economy to the American people. “The 109th Congress has passed legislation this year that will permanently repeal the death tax, decrease the deficit, strengthen America’s borders, prevent frivolous lawsuits, improve our highways, and provide our country with a comprehensive energy policy. “In my home state of South Carolina, the unemployment rate continues to decrease and over 1,300 new jobs have been created since March. This great news is positive proof that the Republican leaders are creating more jobs, growing the economy, and returning control to the American people. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.25.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks regarding his support for the National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1815). The legislation was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 390 - 30. “As a retired member of the Army National Guard, and father of three sons who are currently serving in the military, I am personally invested in the War on Terror and the safety of our troops. In February, my son Alan returned after serving for one year in Iraq. I am proud of his service, and I am dedicated to ensuring a safe return for all of the brave soldiers who selflessly serve abroad in the United States Armed Forces,” said Wilson. “I am honored to vote for the National Defense Authorization Act, legislation that will ensure American troops receive the best equipment, weapons systems, training, and support. “During my visits to both Iraq and Afghanistan, I have seen firsthand the challenges facing our soldiers. HR 1815 addresses these challenges by authorizing additional funding for force protection, including Up-armored Humvees, tactical wheeled vehicle programs, night vision devices, and improvised explosive device jammers. “As our soldiers continue to sacrifice their lives for our freedom, they should be able to provide for their families. By including a 3.1% pay raise for members of the Armed Forces, and increasing the maximum amount of hardship pay, this legislation rewards the tremendous sacrifices of our soldiers. “Finally, H.R. 1815 contains several measures that will provide for military families who have lost loved ones in the War on Terror. It permanently increases the death gratuity to $100,000, and also extends the amount of time dependents of deceased service members can stay in housing or receive housing allowances. Although we can never fully compensate for the sacrifices of our soldiers, these measures will help express our heartfelt appreciation to military families. “The terrorists fighting against us are a determined and brutal enemy, inspired by hatred and intolerance. However, their agenda of evil will fail against the thousands of American soldiers who serve a greater cause of freedom. “I would like to thank Chairman Hunter and other members of the House Armed Services Committee for their leadership and continued efforts to provide for the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.24.2005	Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) introduced the “Living Organ Donor Tax Credit Act of 2005,” (H.R. 2474). This legislation would provide a one time, tax credit up to $5,000 to help cover non-reimbursable expenses, including lost wages, incurred by living organ donors. After introducing this bill, he made the following remarks: “Thousands of people throughout South Carolina, including my predecessor the late Congressman Floyd Spence, have benefited from the tremendous selflessness of living organ donors,” said Wilson. “However, Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance do not cover many expenses related to donation process, including travel and lost income, and many individuals who would like to be a living donor for a loved one are simply unable to do so. “By providing a tax credit of up to $5,000, we’ll make it easier for friends and family members to give their loved ones a second chance at life. When over eighty-eight thousand Americans await life saving transplants, Congress should act now to ensure that more people serve as living organ donors.” Background: H.R. 2474 & Organ Donation • H.R. 2474 would provide living donors with a one-time tax credit up to $5,000 for non-reimbursable expenses and lost wages incurred during the donation process. This tax credit would apply to living kidney, liver, lung, pancreas, intestine, and bone marrow donors. • Over 88,000 U.S. patients are currently waiting for an organ transplant; nearly 3,000 new patients are added to the waiting list each month. • Every day, 16 to 17 people die while waiting for a transplant of a vital organ. ###
05.23.2005	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution honoring the 57th anniversary of the independence of the state of Israel (H.Con.Res. 149). Congressman Joe Wilson (R, SC) the sponsor of the legislation, made the following remarks on the House Floor during debate: “I would like thank Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for her leadership on this issue and for her leadership on the House International Relations Committee. It’s particularly an honor for me to follow my good friend Congressman Eliot Engel of New York. As a member of the House Israel Caucus, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.Con.Res. 149, which recognizes the 57th anniversary of the independence of the State of Israel. “Since its establishment, Israel has served as a trusted home and safe haven for Jews from all over the world. After World War II, Israel welcomed Jews who survived the horrors of the Holocaust. I have visited to see the country continue to embrace Jews who are eager to reestablish in their ancient homeland. “By regularly holding free and fair elections, promoting the exchange of ideas, and vigorously exercising in its Parliament, Israel is a shining model of democracy. The evolution of this great nation is a true testament to the power of democracy and the resiliency of the people of Israel. “Throughout the past 57 years, the relationship between Israel and the United States has continued to strengthen. Israel is a trusted ally of the United States, and our two countries now enjoy a strategic partnership based on shared mutual democratic values, friendship and respect. “Additionally, I am grateful my home state of South Carolina was home to the largest Jewish population in North America at the time of the American Revolution, and its provincial constitution was the first to recognize Judaism to be co-equal to Christianity. The first Jew to be elected to public office in North America was in South Carolina, and the first Jewish fatality of the American Revolution was a Patriot from South Carolina. The bonds of Israel and South Carolina are strong. “Today’s resolution also commends President George W. Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon for continuing to work for the conditions for peace in the Middle East. Despite the deaths of over one thousand Israelis at the hands of murderous terrorists, the people of Israel continue to seek peace with their Palestinian neighbors. Their perseverance and strong spirit will ensure a bright future for their nation and the Middle East. “As we recognize the 57th anniversary of Israel’s independence, please join me in extending warm congratulations and best wishes to the people of Israel. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.19.2005	May 19, 2005 Wilson, Taylor Secure Tricare for Reserve Personnel WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Armed Services Committee yesterday approved an amendment sponsored by Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Congressman Gene Taylor (D-MS) to permanently provide Tricare coverage to all Reserve Component service members. “Reservists are playing an indispensable role in the War on Terror, making up over forty percent of our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. When they are facing the same terrorists and the same dangers as our active duty personnel, they deserve to receive the same health care coverage,” said Wilson. “Large scale mobilizations of the Guard and Reserve have been integral to the War on Terror, and we must address the recruitment and retention challenges facing these services. Providing permanent health care coverage is an essential step for ensuring that more men and women volunteer to serve as citizen soldiers. The Wilson-Taylor amendment to the FY 2006 National Defense Authorization Act passed with a 32-30 bipartisan vote. The House Armed Services Committee passed the FY2006 National Defense Authorization Act last night, and the full House of Representatives is expected to consider the defense bill next week. ###
05.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) was appointed to the House Democracy Assistance Commission by Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-IL). The new, bipartisan Commission was established by the House Democracy Assistance Commission Resolution and is comprised of sixteen Members of Congress. “Governments around the world are waking up to the benefits of democracy, and millions of people are becoming free citizens. As the world’s oldest democracy, the United States can offer a unique perspective on the day to day processes of free nations,” said Wilson. “Throughout the past 15 years, I’ve worked with members of parliament from Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, India, Germany, Indonesia, Mongolia, as well as other nations. This exchange of information helps new democracies flourish, and I am proud to be a member of this vital commission.” Speaker Hastert also made the following comments about the Commission and the appointment of Congressman Wilson: “Our most cherished values here in the United States lie in our democratic ideals of freedom, liberty and justice. They're rights we often take for granted. We forget that in many parts of the world citizens can't vote and dissension carries a huge penalty. For many of our global neighbors, democracy is still a new concept,” said Speaker Hastert. "With this commission, we're sending them the expertise of the premier democratic body in the world, the United States House of Representatives. Congressman Wilson is a strong voice for democracy, and I'm glad he has agreed to serve.” Chairman David Dreier (R-CA) will chair the Commission, which will work to strengthen democratic institutions by assisting parliaments in emerging democracies. Central to the Commission’s work will be the provision of technical expertise enhancing accountability, transparency, legislative independence, and government oversight in foreign parliaments. ###
05.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) gave the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of Justice Janice Rogers Brown and in opposition to Senate Democrats’ partisan and unprecedented obstruction of President Bush’s judicial nominees. Congressman Wilson strongly supports the constitutional option, which would ensure that all judicial nominees receive a fair, up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. “Mr. Speaker, for over 200 years, judges have been confirmed by a simple majority,” said Wilson. “When President Clinton was in office, his nominees required only 51 votes to be confirmed by the Senate. Unfortunately, Democrats have changed the rules and require today’s nominees to receive an unprecedented 60-vote standard. “Justice Janice Rogers Brown of California is one of the many highly qualified nominees who are being denied a fair up-or-down vote. Justice Brown is the first African American woman to serve on California’s highest court, and was retained with 76 percent of the vote statewide in her last election. However, Democrats are denying her of the opportunity of a fair vote simply because she was nominated by President Bush. “On Monday, Majority Leader Bill Frist explained in USA Today why Democrat obstructionism is harmful to the American people and the Constitutional process. When our courthouses sit empty, Democrats shouldn’t be focused on partisan games. "In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.17.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) gave the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of Justice Priscilla Owen and in opposition to Senate Democrats’ partisan and unprecedented obstruction of President Bush’s judicial nominees. Congressman Wilson strongly supports the constitutional option, which would ensure that all judicial nominees receive a fair, up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. “Madame Speaker, yesterday The Wall Street Journal highlighted the extreme and politically-charged use of the Senate Democratic filibuster,” said Wilson. “Editors at The Wall Street Journal clearly articulated the audacity of the Democrats’ radical claims against nominee Priscilla Owen of Texas. Justice Owen is a well respected and accomplished nominee who enjoys significant bipartisan support and would be quickly confirmed if given an up or down vote. Unfortunately, Democrats are denying her this opportunity in a desperate attempt to hold on to federal power and legislate through the judicial system. Their agenda is fueled by bitterness and not in the best interests of the American people. “Majority Leader Bill Frist is to be commended for maintaining the constitutional case for an up-or-down vote. Democrat obstructionism is a radical deviation from allowing Senators to vote for nominees who are highly qualified to serve our country. I support Senator Frist’s efforts and urge Senate Democrats to give Justice Owen a fair vote. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
05.13.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following announcement regarding the Department of Defense’s (DOD) Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) recommendations: “Today is a great day for the Second District of South Carolina. The Department of Defense has reinforced its commitment and confidence in Ft. Jackson, Parris Island, Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort, and the Beaufort Naval Hospital,” said Wilson. “The BRAC Commission’s announcement comes after years of hard work and coordinated efforts by military, community and Congressional leaders who worked tirelessly to promote and protect our bases. Since I was elected to office, protecting our bases and securing additional missions at our installations have been my top priorities. I am thrilled that our hard work has paid off, and I will remain committed to these crucial tasks. “The Department of Defense’s continued confidence will provide additional missions on our bases. Necessary military construction that was deferred by the BRAC process will now be able to proceed, providing even more jobs and greater economic opportunities to our communities. I’ll continue to work for an increase in construction and improvements at our bases. House Armed Services Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) praised Congressman Wilson’s efforts: “Supporters of Ft. Jackson, Parris Island, MCAS Beaufort and the Beaufort Naval Hospital can thank Joe Wilson for his steadfast leadership in making the case for these installations,” said Rep. Duncan Hunter, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “Joe works non-stop on behalf of our troops and our military infrastructure – and that’s paid off. Congressman Wilson also made the following statements regarding the specific bases: Ft. Jackson “Ft. Jackson has been entrusted to play an even larger role in providing the Army with well trained, disciplined and skilled soldiers who are prepared to fight in the War on Terror. The over six hundred new positions gained at the Fort are expected to provide substantial economic growth throughout our community. Parris Island “For almost a century, Parris Island has served one of the premier birthplaces of America’s Marines,” said Wilson. “The Department of Defense clearly remains confident in Parris Island’s ability to prepare Marines to defend our country. Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort “As the home to one of our largest aircraft groups, MCAS Beaufort is playing a vital role in the War on Terror,” said Wilson. “Today’s announcement recognizes and furthers the tremendous military and economic value of the Air Station. Beaufort Naval Hospital “As the primary medical facility for the Beaufort military community, the Naval Hospital is helping to keep our military families healthy,” said Wilson. “I will continue to promote the hospital’s valuable and necessary role in our community. ###
05.10.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) reminded all high schools in the Second District of South Carolina to submit their nominations for the 2005 Annual Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” The nationwide art competition is an excellent opportunity to showcase the talent of area high school students and acknowledge South Carolina’s gifted young artists. “The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful way to nationally recognize South Carolina’s young artists,” said Wilson. “As the deadline to submit artwork approaches, I’d like to encourage all high schools to participate in this great opportunity.” The Second District’s winner’s piece of art will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive a renewable $3,000 Artistic Merit Scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design. For more information on the requirements of the 2005 Annual Congressional Art Competition, please contact Amber McDaniel at 803-939-0041 or visit: https://www.house.gov/fossella/cong_art_comp.htm. High schools in the Second District must submit their entries to Congressman Wilson’s district offices by Friday, May 27, 2005. The offices are located at: Midlands Office Low Country Office 1700 Sunset Blvd (US 378) 903 Port Republic Street West Columbia, SC 29169 Beaufort, SC 29901 ###
04.25.2005	April 25, 2005 Wilson Congratulates Parris Island on DOD Award WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) congratulated Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island on winning the Secretary of Defense Environmental Award in the category of Cultural Resource Management. The award ceremony will take place on May 4, 2005, at the Pentagon. “Parris Island is located on land that is rich in history and heritage,” said Wilson. “The military and civilian personnel are doing a great job in preserving and protecting the unique environment of the Island. I’m glad that the Department of Defense recognized their successful efforts, and I am proud to congratulate Parris Island on receiving this prestigious award,” said Wilson. The award was based upon Parris Island’s sustained excellence in cultural resources conservation and management, including the following successful projects on the Island: Charlesfort-Santa Elena National Historic Landmark Archeological Site Parris Island Cemeteries Delineation Study Cultural Resource Management Program For forty-four years, the Department of Defense has recognized military and civilian personnel for excellence and leadership in management of environmental resources through this award program. This year, the DOD will award ten Environmental Award winners for their significant achievements in natural resources conservation, cultural resources management, environmental quality, pollution prevention, and environmental restoration. ###
04.21.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement regarding the House Democrats' refusal to allow the House Ethics Committee to fairly investigate the charges against Majority Leader Tom DeLay: “For the past six weeks, Democrats have attacked Majority Leader Tom DeLay’s character, leadership and intentions,” said Wilson. “Although Democrats continue to smear Congressman Tom DeLay, they forget that they are responsible for preventing the Ethics Committee from investigating the charges directed at Mr. DeLay. Since the beginning of the 109th Congress, House Democrats have refused to allow the Ethics Committee to meet to address this issue. “Four Ethics Committee Republicans have pledged that as soon as Democrats permit the Ethics Committee to function again, they will vote to form an investigative subcommittee to review various allegations concerning travel and other actions by Congressman DeLay. “Majority Leader DeLay has said all along that he wants to appear before the Ethics Committee to address recent accusations. Unfortunately, Democrats prefer to attack his character for political purposes rather then officially investigate these allegations. Democrats should stop playing politics with the House Ethics Committee, and should give Congressman DeLay the opportunity to defend himself through the Congressional ethics process.” ###
04.21.2005	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass The Energy Policy Act of 2005. After voting for this legislation, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following statement: “As gas prices continue to rise, American families and small businesses are feeling the effects of our nation’s energy problems,” said Wilson. “Without a comprehensive national energy policy, the cost of filling up your car and heating your home will only increase in the coming years. “For the fifth year in a row, the House voted on legislation that will provide a long term solution to our nation’s energy problems. ‘The Energy Policy Act of 2005’ will protect our jobs, our national security and our environment. I appreciate Chairman Barton’s leadership on this issue and urge the Senate to act soon to finally provide our country with a comprehensive energy policy. To help meet the nation’s energy needs, ‘The Energy Policy Act of 2005’: • Improves our nation’s electricity transmission, capacity, and reliability. • Promotes a cleaner environment with new innovations on alternative power sources, the Clean Cities authorization, and the hydrogen fuel cell cars. • Promotes clean coal technologies and provides incentives for renewable energies such as biomass, wind, solar, and hydroelectricity. • Provides leadership in energy conservation by establishing new, mandatory efficiency requirements for federal buildings, and expands the Energy Star program to tell American consumers what products save the most energy. • Provides an efficient approval process for siting of liquefied natural gas facilities, which should help reduce high utility bills for consumers and energy-intensive employers. • Decreases American’s dangerous dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic exploration and development on non-park federal lands and by authorizing expansion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to 1 billion barrels. • Extends daylight savings time two months to reduce energy consumption by the equivalent of 100,000 barrels of oil each day. ###
04.20.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, under the leadership of President George W. Bush and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, India and the United States continue to make progress toward strengthening our strategic partnership,” said Wilson “Last week, President Bush and Secretary Rice met with the Indian External Affairs Minister Natwar Singh. Secretary Rice highlighted ‘it is important that the U.S.-India relationship continues to grow as we recognize the growing importance of India as a global factor.’ Due to the shared values as the world’s largest democracy working with world’s oldest democracy, our countries are continuing on a path of cooperation that will strengthen economic opportunities and enhance national security. “After years of military conflict between India and Pakistan, the two nations recently approved numerous efforts of bilateral relations. And this week, India’s Prime Minister Singh met with Pakistan President Pervez Mursharraf in his birthplace in New Delhi to discuss the next steps to furthering the peace process. It is mutually beneficial for both countries to cooperate for bilateral trade while helping win the War on Terrorism. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ####
04.19.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, last week the European Parliament made an historic decision for approval of Bulgaria to join the European Union in 2007. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Bulgaria Caucus, I am pleased to congratulate Ambassador Elena Poptodorova who represents Sofia in Washington so professionally,” said Wilson. “Since the negotiations began in 2000, Bulgarians have proven they are eager to serve as active members of the European Union. They quickly took the right reforms to earn an important role in the international community. By sending over 400 troops to Iraq to rebuild the country, and providing troops in Afghanistan that I visited at Bagram, Bulgaria is also helping to win the War on Terrorism. “In addition to NATO membership, Bulgaria’s membership in the European Union will prove to be a landmark event in the country’s history. I know Bulgaria will continue the Bulgarian Miracle of economic success and military security. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.”
04.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) traveled with President Bush to attend a joint session of the South Carolina General Assembly. After the President made remarks about the need to permanently strengthen Social Security, Congressman Wilson made the following statement: “President Bush visited South Carolina to discuss an important issue that affects all generations of South Carolinians,” said Wilson. “I appreciate his leadership and agree that Congress should act now to permanently strengthen Social Security.” “Over the past seventy years, the payroll tax has been raised 22 times in previous attempts to fix Social Security. As we now know, these proposals simply didn’t address the real challenges facing the system. Fortunately, President Bush is now offering ideas that will provide a lasting solution to the American people. I support his vision of personal accounts, and look forward to working with him to protect benefits for today’s retirees, and strengthen Social Security for future generations.” ####
04.13.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “As summer approaches, I am concerned about the effect that rising gas prices are having on family budgets and small businesses. The Lundberg Survey recently reported that gas prices have skyrocketed by 19 cents in the past three weeks because of growing demand, high crude oil prices, and higher refining costs,” said Wilson. “Congress can help reduce gas prices by finally implementing a comprehensive national energy policy. For the past four years, the House has passed sound energy legislation that will reduce our reliance on foreign sources of energy, increase conservation and increase the use of clean, modern and reliable sources of energy. But Democrats are playing politics, smearing Tom DeLay, Dick Cheney, and Condoleezza Rice, and the United States still does not possess a comprehensive national energy policy. “South Carolina families need relief from record-high energy costs, and Congress must act now to lead America to greater energy independence. This is a matter of economic and national security, and we cannot afford to wait another year. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ####
04.12.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) expressed his support for Majority Leader Tom DeLay: “Under Congressman Tom DeLay’s leadership, the House has provided tax relief creating three million jobs, prescription drug coverage for needy citizens, and a strengthened military to protect American families. “Additionally, Majority Leader DeLay and his wife Christine play a valuable role in their community. As foster parents, they have devoted themselves to improving the lives of abused and neglected children, and are now focusing their efforts on creating homes for foster children who need them. Their work is a true sign of compassion that is rarely recognized. “Congressman Tom DeLay has been called one of the most effective leaders in the history of the House of Representatives, and it is his effectiveness that motivates his critics. Radical liberals, such as George Soros, are leading a desperate smear campaign against a decent man who has delivered remarkable results. His critics are inspired by bitterness, hatred, and partisanship. Their smears will fail, just as they failed against Vice President Cheney, Dr. Rice, Secretary Rumsfeld and former Attorney General Ashcroft.” ###
04.06.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks on the floor of the U.S House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, throughout the second district of South Carolina, people are eager to discuss how to improve our Social Security system,” said Wilson. “After conducting over 20 town meetings with constituents of all ages about this issue, I am more convinced than ever of the need to strengthen Social Security. At the University of South Carolina and Claflin University, college students who are already paying into the system said they want the option of personal retirement accounts, which they can currently calculate at www.heritage.org. While senior citizens on Hilton Head Island understand that their benefits are secure, they are concerned that their children and grandchildren won’t receive the money they contribute. And Baby Boomers in Bluffton wished they had been offered the opportunity to participate in personal retirement accounts years ago. “Their opinions and suggestions reemphasized the urgent need for Congress to strengthen Social Security now, protecting persons over 55 in the system and providing retirement accounts for younger workers. “In conclusion, God protect the Ukraine, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.16.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, as a thirty year member of Rotary International, I’m proud to recognize the valuable work of new Rotarians in Russia,” said Wilson. “Although Rotary in Russia is only eleven years old, the one-hundred year old Rotary organization is already strengthening Russian communities, helping to enrich multi-national relations, and improving economic conditions in Russia. “Today, I met with a group of Russian Rotarians who are visiting our country hosted by Neil Young of the Townson Hall Maryland Rotary Club. Our visitors and their sponsors are enthusiastic to learn more about how American small businessmen organize and manage their businesses. They’ll be able to apply the lessons they learned to help Russian businesses survive, grow, and create jobs and consumer products for their communities. “As Rotarians throughout the world continue to promote networking for community development and leadership, they should feel proud that their efforts are making a positive difference for millions of people. “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.15.2005	Congressman Joe Wilson made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, under the leadership of President George W. Bush, the men and women of our armed forces are winning the War on Terrorism. By dedicating their lives to fighting for the American people and stabilizing emerging democracies, our soldiers are protecting our country and defeating the goals of the terrorists. I am grateful for their service,” said Congressman Wilson. “The President has submitted a supplemental budget request that will dramatically increase funding for body armor, hardened vehicles and technology to protect our troops in the field. The supplemental also increases the maximum service member Group Life Insurance benefits and the one time death gratuity for combat fatalities. I strongly support the President’s request. “Providing for our troops is the most important budget priority. Congress must deliver the necessary equipment and funding to our troops to ensure that they remain safe and successful in their mission. “Our family appreciates the mission in Iraq, as our son Captain Alan Wilson recently served there in the Army National Guard. “In conclusion, may God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.15.2005	March 15, 2005 Wilson to Host Social Security Town Hall Meetings Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that he will host several Social Security town hall meetings from March 21st through March 23rd. These meetings will provide an opportunity for constituents to share their opinions about the condition of the Social Security system. “I look forward to listening to the citizens of the Second District about their suggestions and concerns regarding our Social Security system,” said Wilson. Monday, March 21 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM: Columbia Area Employee Meeting Location: Columbia Chamber of Commerce, Palmetto Room 930 Richland Street Columbia, SC Guest Speaker: Melanie Sabelhaus Deputy Administrator, U.S. Small Business Administration 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM: University of South Carolina – Residence Hall Association Forum Location: Russell House Theater, USC Campus Columbia, SC 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM: Lexington County Town Hall Location: Irmo High School Cafeteria 6671 St. Andrews Road Columbia, SC Tuesday, March 22 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM: Wagener Town Hall Location: Wagener Town Hall 111 Railroad Avenue, West Wagener, SC Wednesday, March 23 2:45 PM – 4:00 PM 1st Monday Republican Club Meeting Location: Holiday Inn Express Motel Stafford B Room 35 Bluffton Road Bluffton, SC ###
03.09.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House floor: “Madame Speaker, as a member of the Iraqi Women’s Caucus, I am honored to recognize the bravery and strength of the Iraqi and Afghan women today in their developing democracies,” said Wilson. “In the face of great danger, the women of Iraq and Afghanistan are displaying tremendous courage. In January, Iraqi women risked their lives to participate in Iraq’s first free elections in over fifty years. After the votes were tallied, their bravery was rewarded as over one-third of Iraq’s newly elected legislators are women.” “The liberation of Iraq delivered hope and future to Iraqi women, and they are helping to turn the promises of democracy into realities for their children and grandchildren.” “Today, a group of Iraqi and Afghan women are visiting the halls of Congress. I am pleased to celebrate their accomplishments and encourage them to continue their work for freedom and democracy.” “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.” ###
03.08.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in appreciation of President Bush seeking to strengthen our Social Security system,” said Wilson. “When Social Security was conceived in the mid-1930’s, the average life expectancy at birth in the United States was 60. Today, the average American life expectancy is over 77. Americans are now receiving benefits over longer periods of time because they are living longer.” “Our Social Security system is financially broken, outdated, and unable to meet the retirement needs of our children and grandchildren. If we fail to act now, we’ll burden further generations with dramatically higher taxes, massive new borrowing, or sudden and severe cuts to Social Security benefits or other government programs.” “In 1998, President Bill Clinton said ‘My fellow baby boomers, let me say that none of us wants our own retirement to be a burden to our children and to their efforts to raise our grandchildren.’ Seven years later, we still have not solved the problems facing Social Security. Congress must act soon to provide younger Americans with retirement choices and strengthen benefits for today's retirees. We need to fix the system now once and for all.” “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.”
03.04.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded grants under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to three South Carolina communities. “South Carolina’s firefighters risk their lives daily to protect our families and our property,” said Wilson. “They are safer and more successful today because of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. I appreciate the Department of Homeland Security’s commitment to ensuring that our firefighters have the resources they need to protect our communities.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. The grants were provided to the following departments: Recipient Award Purpose West Middle Fire Department, Orangeburg $157,500 Firefighting Vehicle Orangeburg Department of Public Safety, Orangeburg $370,827 Equipment Bowman Volunteer Fire Department, Bowman $80,973 Equipment Lady’s Island – St. Helena Fire District, Beaufort $153,212 Equipment ###
03.03.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, I am honored to discuss how two service organizations in the Second District of South Carolina that have joined together on the 'Nothing to Hide' project to promote awareness about mental illness. This project is an educational photo-exhibit about families whose lives are affected by mental health disorders,” said Wilson. “By sponsoring the 'Nothing to Hide' project, the Rotary Club of Hilton Head Island –Sunset and the Mental Health Association of Beaufort and Jasper are addressing the myths and stigmas surrounding mental illness and are helping connect people who suffer with mental illness to the appropriate resources for support, education and treatment.” “Sunset Rotarians have volunteered to oversee the transition of the display during its eight week tour through Beaufort and Jasper counties. I would especially like to recognize the good work and leadership of the dedicated volunteers Ed Dowaschinski, Krista Delgado, and Sandy Leath. Their strong efforts to raise awareness about this issue that affects so many of our friends and family members will help increase understanding throughout our community.” “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.”
03.03.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that the "Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users " (H.R. 3) designates $10 million for improvements to Highway 278 over five years. The bill passed the U.S. House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and is awaiting action on the House Floor. “I am grateful for the Committee’s decision to increase funding for Highway 278,” said Wilson. “Collisions on this highway have increased by 9% over the past seven years. As the primary evacuation route for the Hilton Head area, this road must be safe and convenient for everyone who travels on it. Providing funding to improve Highway 278 will remain my first transportation priority.” ###
03.01.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, I strongly believe that all Americans deserve a strengthened retirement. Our current Social Security system is financially broken, outdated and unable to meet our future retirement needs. In 1950, there were 16 workers to support every beneficiary. Today there are only 3.3 workers per beneficiary. If Congress does not act soon, Social Security will be unable to meet its obligation to our children and grandchildren. Yesterday, I discussed this issue with fellow South Carolinians and many agree that our Social Security system faces significant problems,” said Wilson. “President Bush is boldly leading the way to solve these problems by providing younger Americans with retirement choices and strengthening benefits for today's retirees. Reform offers younger Americans the opportunity to invest their Social Security funds in voluntary, personal accounts which will provide higher benefits and allow them to build a “nest egg” for retirement that the government cannot take away." “As Congress continues to consider Social Security reform, I urge my colleagues to fix our system and provide better retirement choices to the American people." “In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th.”
03.01.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (HSGP) has awarded a $26.2 million grant to the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) of Columbia, South Carolina. SLED will use the funding for preparedness activities associated with implementing the State Homeland Security Strategy. “The threat of terrorism against our country remains real, and protecting the American people should be our first priority,” said Wilson. “I’m pleased that SLED has received this funding. As long as terrorists are committed to attacking our country, our law enforcement agencies need to be able to prevent, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks.” The HSGP was divided for the following programs: • State Homeland Security Program - $16,925,018 • Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program - $6,154,522 • Citizen Corps Program - $214, 863 • Emergency Management Performance Grant - $2,761, 710 • Metropolitan Medical Response System Program - $277,592 ####
02.17.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) issued the following statement regarding House passage of the Class Action Fairness Act, a plan to curb class action lawsuit abuse in state courts. “Today, the House acted to crack down on frivolous lawsuits that wreak damage on the American legal system. The passage of this legislation is an important step forward in our efforts to end junk lawsuits that provide little or no value to consumers, but return millions in legal fees to trial lawyers,” said Wilson. “Class action reform will protect truly injured Americans, help our small businesses, and improve our judicial system. I urge President Bush to quickly sign this bill into law.”
02.15.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House floor: "Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize the 100th anniversary of Rotary International, the world’s first service organization," said Wilson. "In 1905, Paul Harris had a vision of an organization that would provide service opportunities in Chicago. Today, his vision has become a reality and Rotary International promotes voluntarism throughout America and 166 countries worldwide. With over 1.2 million members, Rotary International is an organization of community leaders that networks to provide humanitarian service, encourages high ethical standards, and helps build goodwill and peace. "Throughout the world, Rotarians are helping to provide scholarships and group study exchanges. Its Polio Plus Program to eradicate polio is being achieved by vaccinating more than 2 billion children worldwide. "As a Past Rotary Club President, I’ve seen first hand the tremendous goodwill the club is spreading throughout the world. I am grateful my Chief of Staff Eric Dell is a charter member of the new Capitol Hill Rotary Club where he is current president. Congratulations on fulfilling The Four-Way Test and the motto of 'Service Above Self.' "In conclusion, God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th."
02.14.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) toured Ft. Jackson facilities to observe the recently reported maintenance requirements which may be a factor in the upcoming Base Realignment and Closure Process (BRAC). Base commander Major General Abe Turner, a long time friend of Wilson’s since Turner’s service as Army Liaison to the House, conducted the tour. Wilson made the following remarks about Ft. Jackson: “I have trained at Fort Jackson frequently during my 31 years of service in the Army Reserves and National Guard and with two sons now serving in the Guard at Fort Jackson; I am familiar with the Fort’s facilities. However, I do not want to take anything for granted as we prepare for BRAC,” said Wilson. “I saw the shortfalls of maintenance, but I am confident they can be endured and working together upgrades will be made. We want the best for our volunteer service members who are being so successful in protecting the American people in the War on Terrorism,” explained Wilson. “Fort Jackson is an extraordinary base with exceptional political, public and private sector support. By possessing a conducive training climate, multiple lines of communication, minimal environmental issues, affordable infrastructure costs, and no encroachment, the base serves our country well. I am particularly pleased with the strong relationship Ft. Jackson has with the surrounding community and its overwhelming local and state economic impact.” “In the BRAC process, I appreciate the team efforts of the Columbia Chamber of Commerce, led my Ike McLeese, the City of Columbia with Mayor Bob Coble, the state led by Comptroller General Richard Eckstrom, Gov. Mark Sanford, and General Stan Spears, working with our new consultants and expert Fort personnel,” said Wilson. “I believe Fort Jackson has proven it is of the right meteorological climate for year round training and enjoys broad community support.” The U.S. Defense Department will appoint the BRAC commission in March and will announce assessments for closure on May 15th.
02.11.2005	On Monday, February 14, 2005, Congressman Joe Wilson will tour Ft. Jackson to see firsthand the base’s military construction needs. Following his visit, he will hold a press conference to discuss his continuing fight on behalf of Ft. Jackson and all South Carolina military bases during the Base Realignment and Closure Process (BRAC). Who: Congressman Joe Wilson When: Monday, February 14, 2005 11:30 AM **Press should arrive by 11:15 AM. Where: Tomlin Company 4500 Fort Jackson Blvd. For additional logistical information, please contact Emily Lawrimore at 202-468-3258.
02.10.2005	Washington - Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House Floor: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the strong relationship between the United States and Bulgaria,” said Wilson. “For over a hundred years, interrupted by tragic periods of totalitarianism, the United States has enjoyed diplomatic relations with Bulgaria. With its new era of democracy, our two countries now stand together in the War on Terrorism and our relationship is stronger than ever. Bulgaria is a thriving democracy which recognizes the importance of furthering freedom throughout the world. By sending over 400 troops to Iraq to rebuild the country and train security forces, Bulgaria is playing an important role in helping the Iraqi people. Also with a contingent in Afghanistan, Bulgaria is protecting the modern world by containing barbarians overseas. “Bulgaria is also a country of great accomplishment. Last year, I was honored to meet Prime Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg Gotha and to attend the White House ceremony honoring Bulgaria's admittance into NATO. Under his leadership, the Bulgarian economy is being transformed and EU Admission is planned in two years. “With my visits to Bulgaria, I have seen firsthand the Bulgarian miracle: the establishment of a dynamic democracy and the restoration of economic freedom creating unlimited opportunities for the Bulgarian people. As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Bulgaria Caucus along with Congresswoman Ellen Tauscher of California, it is also my privilege to work with Ambassador Elena Poptodorova, who is the finest representative of Bulgarian hospitality and friendship in the United States. “In conclusion, may God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th.”
02.08.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House Floor: "Mr. Speaker, tomorrow the International Relations’ Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation is scheduled to review the Volcker Interim Report on the United Nations’ Oil-for-Food Program. I’d like to thank Chairman Hyde and Subcommittee Chairman Rohrabacher for their leadership on this important issue," said Wilson. "While the United Nations prides itself as being “the premier vehicle for furthering development in poorer countries,” its Oil-for-Food program allegedly furthered Saddam Hussein’s dictatorship over the Iraqi people. During my travels to Iraq, I’ve seen Saddam’s palaces and the devastation his rule left on the people of Iraq. I am outraged to think that a UN sponsored program designed to help the Iraqi people was so easily corrupted and manipulated to serve the dictatorship’s interests. The diverted funds should be recovered for the people of Iraq. "I strongly support Congressman Jeff Flake’s 'United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act.' This legislation would require the United States to withhold a portion of its UN contributions until the UN fully cooperates with the Oil-for-Food investigation. American taxpayer dollars should not support programs or people who obstruct our efforts to promote democracy and spread freedom throughout the world. "In conclusion, may God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th."
02.07.2005	On Sunday, February 6, 2005, Congressman Joe Wilson (R, SC) thanked members of the National Guard at a Purple Heart Ceremony at the McCreighty Training Center in Richland County, South Carolina. Major General Stan Spears presented Purple Heart awards to Specialist Jeremy Holland and Specialist Troy Brown, who were wounded in Iraq. Brigadier General Laurie Newton, family members of the recipients, and other members of the military also attended the ceremony. “As Major General Spears presents these awards today, I am honored to be here to congratulate Specialist Holland and Specialist Brown in person. You are serving our nation with distinction, skill, and determination,” said Wilson. “By risking your lives to protect our freedoms, you have made Americans safer. America remains a symbol of hope throughout the world. Thank you for your brave service, and congratulations on receiving these prestigious awards today.”
02.03.2005	Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) was appointed to the House International Relations Committee. Today, he announced that he will serve on the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, which has a wide range of jurisdiction over United States international activities, including the investigation of the United Nation’s Oil for Food Program. Additionally, he will serve on the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. “I look forward to being an active participant of this important committee.” said Wilson. “Like most Americans, I’m appalled that Saddam Hussein’s regime was able to generate over $10 billion in illegal revenues through the UN-administered Oil for Food program. As Congress continues to thoroughly investigate this scandal, I’ll demand full UN cooperation to ensure that all guilty parties of are held accountable for their corrupt actions.” “Congressman Wilson’s strong work ethic and passion for the truth will greatly benefit our committee,” said Congressman Henry Hyde, Chairman of the House International Relations Committee. "I'm confident he'll do a great job on behalf of the American people to ensure our international interests." The House International Relations Committee deals with oversight and legislation relating to the deployment and use of United States Armed Forces; enforcement of United Nations or other international sanctions; the Agency for International Development; State and Defense Department activities involving arms transfers and sales, and arms export licenses; international law; promotion of democracy; international law enforcement issues, including terrorism and narcotics control programs and activities; and other matters relating to international, economic policy and trade.
02.02.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks after listening to President George W. Bush’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Bush clearly articulated his domestic and foreign policy goals for the coming year to the American people,” said Wilson. “As we have witnessed throughout his first four years in office, President Bush continues to put forth the vision and determination necessary to lead America in the right direction. His decision to confront challenges and take bold risks is helping to build a better world for our children and grandchildren.” “By speaking of his support for our troops and his determination to win the war on terrorism, our Commander in Chief continues to provide the resolute leadership that Americans need during a time of war. I share President Bush’s strong commitment to protect the American people by advancing the cause of democracy throughout the world.” “I also agree with the President’s strong belief that Americans have a right to a safe, secure retirement. Although it would be easy to leave tough decisions regarding Social Security to future generations, President Bush has decided to act now to fix this financially broken system. Providing retirement choices to future generations will help ensure that all Americans receive their hard-earned benefits.” “As we enter this new year, I commend President Bush for setting forth an optimistic and achievable agenda for our country.”
02.01.2005	Calling it “the right thing to do for our military families,” Representative Joe Wilson (SC-2nd District) and Representative Marsha Blackburn (TN-7th District) joined today to introduce the Honoring our Fallen Soldiers and Families Act. The legislation will increase to $100,000 the death gratuity benefit for the families of fallen soldiers, and make that benefit retroactive to October 1, 2001. The bill was developed in conjunction with and mirror’s legislation introduced by Senator George Allen of Virginia. "As our men and women in uniform continue to fight in harm's way to protect our country, Congress should immediately pass this legislation,” said Wilson. "Although we could never fully compensate for the sacrifices of our soldiers, increasing the death benefit will help our grateful nation express our appreciation to military families.” “No discussion of the Iraqi election success would be complete without recognizing the active duty, Reserve, and National Guard men and women who’ve given their lives in this war on terror in the Middle East,” added Blackburn. “It is their sacrifice that is putting terrorism on the run. We cannot forget them, and we must not forget their families – that’s why Representative Joe Wilson and I have introduced the Blackburn-Wilson Honoring our Fallen Soldiers and Families Act. This bill would make the benefit retroactive to October 1, 2001, and is part of our effort to ensure that we’re doing everything possible to support our military families.” The legislation would provide an increase in the death benefit gratuity for the following: A member of an armed force who dies while on active duty or while performing authorized travel to or from active duty, and a Reserve of an armed force who dies while on inactive duty training; Any Reserve of an armed force who assumed an obligation to perform active duty for training, or inactive duty training and who dies while traveling directly to or from that active duty for training or inactive duty training; Any member of a reserve officers’ training corps who dies while performing annual training duty under orders for a period of more than 13 days, or while performing authorized travel to or from that annual training duty; or any applicant for membership in a reserve officers’ training corps who dies while attending field training or a practice cruise or while performing authorized travel to or from the place where the training or cruise is conducted; or A person who dies while traveling to or from or while at a place for final acceptance, or for entry upon active duty (other than for training), in an armed force, who has been ordered or directed to go to that place, and who has been provisionally accepted for that duty; or has been selected for service in that armed force.
01.26.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson announced that he will host a reception on Wednesday, February 2nd in honor of President Bush’s State of the Union Address. “I’m pleased to host this reception in honor of President Bush’s fifth State of the Union address,” said Wilson. “I look forward to hearing more about the President’s agenda to make America a more secure and more prosperous country.” Please see the following details for the reception: 5:00 PM – 10:00 PM Wednesday, February 3, 2005 212 Cannon House Office Building
01.19.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) announced that the U.S. Department of Defense has awarded a $5.3 million contract to FN Manufacturing, Inc. (FNMI), of Columbia, South Carolina. As part of a $24.3 million continuing contract to FNMI, this funding will be used to modernize machine guns. “Once again, the U.S. Department of Defense is entrusting FNMI to provide the finest military equipment available to our troops.” said Wilson. “ I am pleased that the Columbia community and the American military continue to benefit from FNMI’s excellent work.” “FN is a great South Carolina company that continues to set the standard in equipping our men and women fighting the war on terror. I applaud them for receiving this contract,” said Senator Jim Demint.
01.18.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson invited South Carolinians to celebrate the 55th Presidential Inauguration. “I look forward to celebrating this great American tradition with other South Carolinians,” said Wilson. “In addition to hosting events in Washington, I also invite everyone to view the Inauguration in the Midlands and Lowcountry offices of the Second Congressional district.” Please see the following details regarding these events. Wednesday, January 19, 2005 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm Embassy of Republic of Bulgaria Inaugural Reception The Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria is hosting an Inaugural Reception with special guests U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) & U.S. Congresswoman Ellen O. Tauscher (D-CA), co-chairs of the Congressional Bulgaria Caucus. Light refreshments will be served. Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria 1621 22nd Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20008-1919 Phone: 202-387-0174 Please RSVP by January 19, 2005 by noon to Melissa Whittingham by fax (202-225-2455) or by email (Melissa.Whittingham@mail.house.gov). Thursday, January 20, 2005 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Washington, DC Inaugural Drop-In Congressman Wilson will host a drop-in reception in 212 Cannon House Office Building. Due to additional security precautions, attendees should arrive as early as possible and be prepared to show identification. The Congressional Buildings will open at 8:30 am. 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Midlands, SC Inaugural Drop-In Congressman Wilson will host a drop-in reception in the Second District’s Midlands office. Light refreshments will be served. Midlands Office 1700 Sunset Blvd. (US 378), Suite 1 West Columbia, SC 29169 Phone: 803-939–0041 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Lowcountry, SC Inaugural Drop-In Congressman Wilson will host a drop-in reception in the Second District’s Lowcountry office. Light refreshments will be served. Lowcountry Office 903 Port Republic Street Beaufort, SC 29901 Phone: 843-521-2530 To learn more about other Inaugural events, please visit the Presidential Inaugural Website at https://www.inaugural05.com.
01.13.2005	Wilson Announces $200,000 Award for Ridgeland’s Wagon Branch Project WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded a $200,000 grant to the town of Ridgeland, South Carolina, for the Wagon Branch Project. By allowing Ridgeland to extend its water lines to the Wagon Branch community, this funding will help improve water quality in the area. “The citizens of the Wagon Branch community have suffered with poor water quality for too many years,” said Wilson. “Last year, Senator Graham and I worked hard to ensure that the EPA would provide substantial funding for the Wagon Branch Project. I’m glad this funding was approved and am confident that area residents will soon enjoy an improved water system.”
01.08.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) made the following remarks from the House Floor: "Mr. Speaker, tomorrow the International Relations’ Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation is scheduled to review the Volcker Interim Report on the United Nations’ Oil-for-Food Program. I’d like to thank Chairman Hyde and Subcommittee Chairman Rohrabacher for their leadership on this issue," said Wilson. "While the United Nations prides itself as being “the premier vehicle for furthering development in poorer countries,” its Oil-for-Food program allegedly furthered Saddam Hussein’s dictatorship over the Iraqi people. During my travels to Iraq, I’ve seen Saddam’s palaces and the devastation his rule left upon the people of Iraq. I am outraged to think that a UN sponsored program designed to help the Iraqi people was so easily corrupted and manipulated to serve the dictatorship’s interests. The diverted funds should be recovered for the Iraqi people. "I strongly support Congressman Jeff Flake’s “United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act.” This legislation would require the United States to withhold a portion of its UN contributions until the UN fully cooperates with the Oil-for-Food investigation. American taxpayer dollars should not support programs or people who obstruct our efforts to promote democracy and spread freedom throughout the world. "In conclusion, may God bless our troops, and we will never forget September 11th."
01.07.2005	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02) made the following statement regarding Congressman Tom DeLay’s announcement that he will permanently step down as Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Throughout his remarkable career, Tom DeLay has honorably served the people of Texas and our country. He is one of the most effective and dedicated public servants I have ever had the opportunity to work with and I am honored to be his friend. By announcing today that he will permanently step down as Majority Leader, Tom has once again put the interests of the American people before his own self interests.” ###
12.17.2004	Today, Congressman Joe Wilson extended an invitation for South Carolinians to join him in Washington, D.C. for the 55th Presidential Inauguration on January 20, 2005. Congressman Wilson will be holding a drop-in reception in the Washington D.C. Office of the Second Congressional District all day. Details on this and other events surrounding the inauguration can be found below. For tickets to the Swearing-In, please call Melissa Whittingham at 202-225-2452 (TICKETS ARE VERY LIMITED). For detailed information on the Swearing-In, Parade, and Official Balls, please visit the Presidential Inaugural Website. Wednesday, January 19, 2005 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm The Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria is hosting an Inaugural Reception with special guests U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) & U.S. Congresswoman Ellen O. Tauscher (D-CA), co-chairs of the Congressional Bulgaria Caucus. Light refreshments will be served. Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria 1621 22nd Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20008-1919 Phone: 202-387-0174 Please RSVP by January 14, 2005 by fax or e-mail to Melissa Whittingham with Congressman Wilson, fax: 202-225-2455, Melissa.Whittingham@mail.house.gov. The Embassy will need the names of everyone in your party who will attend. Thursday, January 20, 2005 Noon The 55th Presidential Inaugural Swearing-In Ceremony will be held at the Capitol. Seating is by invitation only. Capitol gates will open at 9:00 am, and a musical prelude is scheduled to begin at 10:30 am. 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Congressman Wilson invites you to his office in 212 Cannon House Office Building for a drop-in. Light Refreshments will be served. Due to additional security precautions, attendees in Washington should have IDs and arrive as early as possible. The Congressional Buildings will open at 8:30 am. 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Congressman Wilson will also be hosting drop-in receptions in each of his District Offices. Light refreshments will be served. Midlands Office 1700 Sunset Blvd. (US 378), Suite 1 West Columbia, SC 29169 Ph: 803-939–0041 Lowcountry Office 903 Port Republic Street Beaufort, SC 29901 Ph: 843-521–2530 7:00 pm – until For information on the Presidential Inaugural Ball, please visit the Presidential Inaugural Website. If you receive an invitation that you cannot use for this or other events, please forward as soon as possible to Beverly Carter in the Midlands Office or Deanna Conners in the Lowcountry Office. Friday, January 21, 2005 8:00 pm – midnight The South Carolina Inaugural Ball will be held at the Smithsonian Institution National Museum of American History at 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW on the National Mall. The event is black tie or military dress. For information please visit the South Carolina Presidential Inaugural Ball.
11.16.2004	Today, U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) made the following remarks on the House Floor: “Mr. Speaker, just two weeks ago in an historic election, a clear majority of more than 60 million Americans voted to elect President George W. Bush to a second term in office. This was an increase over President Bush’s 2000 totals of more than 10 million votes, showing an astonishing growth in the support for his positive agenda to move America forward,” said Congressman Wilson. “The President ran a campaign based on optimism and an overriding belief in the goodness and compassion of the American people. His message resonated across every demographic group in America. President Bush increased his support among Hispanics, African Americans, Jewish Americans, Asian Americans, and women. “Of the 3,154 counties in America, President Bush carried 2,542 counties and Senator John Kerry carried only 611. He became the first Republican President in 104 years to win reelection with increases in U.S. House and Senate seats. With a 53% majority in the U.S. House and 55% majority in the U.S. Senate, the President clearly has won the respect of the American people. “In conclusion, may God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th,” said Congressman Wilson. ###
10.07.2004	Today, U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) made the following remarks on the House Floor: “Mr. Speaker, as a 31-year veteran of the Army National Guard and the parent of three children serving in the military, including a son in Iraq, I am glad to report our troops are clearly supporting the re-election of President Bush,” said Congressman Wilson. “According to the independent Army Times, America’s troops are voting today for President Bush by a margin of over four to one. Our troops know firsthand President Bush is courageously leading the successful fight against the terrorists in the Global War on Terrorism. He is the commander in chief to trust with their lives. “American servicemembers know in a time of war we need a clear message to the murderers of children. President Bush has a hopeful vision of victory established by our competent troops who have liberated over fifty million people from Afghanistan to Iraq. In my three visits to Iraq, I have seen and met the New Greatest Generation who are making history for democracy. “President Bush clearly understands with our troops that the best way to protect American families is to take the war to the terrorists. We must fight at the source to reduce the potential for warfare in the streets of America. “In conclusion, may God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th,” said Congressman Wilson. ### Click Here to Watch Video
10.05.2004	Today, U.S. Congressman made the following remarks on the House Floor: “Mr. Speaker, President George W. Bush has led our nation in the Global War on Terror with consistent strength and courage. After thousands of innocent Americans were murdered on September the 11th, he understood the nature of the terrorist threat, and immediately went on the offensive to protect American families,” said Congressman Wilson. Click Here to Watch Video “The Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry, has proven he has a September 10th approach. When asked what he would do about the War on Terror, Kerry said America should ‘hold summits’ and must pass a ‘global test’ before defending the American people. This is mixed message that will do nothing to deter terrorists. “Under President Bush’s leadership, America has liberated millions from terrorist-sponsoring regimes in Afghanistan and Iraq, captured or killed hundreds of terrorists, formed the new Department of Homeland Security, initiated training of Iraqi police and military, and stopped the flow of millions of dollars in terrorist funding. President Bush has proven he is the right leader to win the War on Terrorism by making courageous decisions to protect American families. “In conclusion, may God bless our troops and we will never forget September 11th,” said Congressman Wilson. ###
10.05.2004	Today, U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) made the following remarks on the Democrat proposal for a military draft: “The bill we are voting on today has been used by Democrats to scare young voters and their parents with the lie of an impending draft,” said Congressman Wilson. "In South Carolina, the Democratic Party sent out a despicable campaign letter, disguised as a draft notice. The Democratic Presidential Candidate John Kerry speaks disingenuously about a 'back door draft.' He has said to elect him President because he 'will give us a foreign policy that absolutely makes it unnecessary to have a draft.' Democrats’ false rhetoric has helped fuel a nationwide scare campaign. “As a retired veteran of 31 years service in the Army National Guard, and with three sons in the military, one of whom is serving in Iraq today, I agree with Newsweek magazine’s expose which discredited the rumors as having no basis in fact. Crying wolf about the need for a draft causes doubt about the ability of our armed forces, and hurts our morale and recruitment. “Let's be clear. The all-volunteer American military is succeeding in the War on Terror, and retention remains high. We have the best-trained, best-equipped, most competent military in history. We have a new greatest generation that I have visited three times in Iraq who are dedicated patriots protecting American families by taking the war to the terrorists. There is absolutely no need for a draft. Not one person in the executive branch supports or has talked about reinstating the draft. “Clearly, by resorting to the politics of fear, Kerry and the Democrats have no positive agenda for America. Americans deserve more. President Bush and Republicans have a proud record of achievement in the last four years: of tax relief, better education for our children, improved health care through prescription drug coverage, and a strong national defense against terrorism. “I urge all of my colleagues to vote against H.R. 163, and end this false rumor,” said Congressman Wilson. ###
